

201 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: For Most Cities, Recession Has Arrived

BYLINE: By BILL MARSH

 BODY:
Officially, the nation may or may not be in a recession. (That label is applied by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a nonprofit group recognized by the government as the final word on such things, and that word awaits.) 
But measured at the local level, in places as diverse as Saginaw, Mich.; Sacramento, Calif.; Honolulu; and Atlanta, the slowdowns are well under way.
According to an analysis by Moody's Economy.com released last week, about two-thirds of the country's 381 metropolitan areas were in recession, and another one in five was at risk.
The report evaluates employment and industrial production data for the six months ending in August - so it doesn't reflect deteriorating conditions caused by the financial upheavals in September. But other news did: on Friday, the government said the economy shed 159,000 jobs in September, the worst monthly tally since 2001 and the ninth consecutive month of job losses.
The seizing up of credit for businesses large and small, widely reported last week, seems certain to knock some of the ''at risk'' cities down a peg.
''Areas that are more exposed to the credit crisis through the financial industry are more likely to get worse in the months ahead, like New York City,'' said Andrew Gledhill, an economist who worked on the Moody's report.
Mr. Gledhill noted that the cities with economies still expanding as of August were often those more reliant on education, health care and energy for jobs. But even in those places the indicators point down.
''Really, nothing is safe,'' he said.
The Midwest is dependent on exports and vulnerable to a European recession, according to Moody's. Home prices may fall further in Florida and the Southwest as foreclosures mount. Home sales were up in the West - because of foreclosures.
Meanwhile, the National Bureau of Economic Research continues to assess the national picture. It finds mixed signals on labor (in decline) and gross domestic product (steady or rising), so for now, at least, a full-on recession hasn't been confirmed.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: IN TROUBLE
 GROWING (Source: Moody's Economy.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); CITIES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); FORECLOSURE (68%); HOME PRICES (63%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (84%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



202 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Command For Africa Established By Pentagon

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For decades, Africa was rarely more than an afterthought for the Pentagon.
 Responsibilities for American military affairs across the vast African continent were divided clumsily among three regional combat headquarters, those for Europe, the Pacific and the Middle East. Commanders set priorities against obvious threats, whether the old Soviet Union and then a resurgent Russia, a rising China or a nuclear North Korea, or adversaries along the Persian Gulf. 
 If deployment of fighting forces is an indicator, that historic focus north of the equator endures. But since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, a new view has gained acceptance among senior Pentagon officials and military commanders: that ungoverned spaces and ill-governed states, whose impoverished citizens are vulnerable to the ideology of violent extremism, pose a growing risk to American security.
 Last week, in a small Pentagon conference hall, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, inaugurated the newest regional headquarters, Africa Command, which is responsible for coordinating American military affairs on the continent. 
 There are barely 2,000 American combat troops and combat support personnel based in Africa, and the new top officer, Gen. William E. Ward of the Army, pledges that Africa Command has no designs on creating vast, permanent concentrations of forces on the continent. 
 ''Bases? Garrisons? It's not about that,'' General Ward said in an interview. ''We are trying to prevent conflict, as opposed to having to react to a conflict.'' 
 Already, though, analysts at policy advocacy organizations and research institutes are warning of a militarization of American foreign policy across Africa. 
 Mr. Gates said the new command was an example of the Pentagon's evolving strategy of forging what he called ''civilian-military partnerships,'' in which the Defense Department works alongside and supports the State Department and the Agency for International Development, as well as host nations' security and development agencies.
 ''In this respect, Africom represents yet another important step in modernizing our defense arrangements in light of 21st-century realities,'' Mr. Gates said. ''It is, at its heart, a different kind of command with a different orientation, one that we hope and expect will institutionalize a lasting security relationship with Africa, a vast region of growing importance in the globe.''
 Mr. Gates and General Ward said that this work to complement and support American security and development policies would include missions like deploying military trainers to improve the abilities of local counterterrorism forces, assigning military engineers to help dig wells and build sewers, and sending in military doctors to inoculate the local population against diseases.
 While that thinking has influenced the work of all of the military's regional war-fighting commands, it is the central focus of Africa Command. 
 And over the past two years, it has quietly become the central focus of the military's Southern Command, once better known for the invasions of Grenada and Panama, but now converting itself to a headquarters that supports efforts across the United States government and within host nations to improve security and economic development in Latin America. 
 A number of specialists in African and Latin American politics at nongovernmental organizations express apprehension, however, that the new emphasis of both these commands represents an undesirable injection of the military into American foreign policy, a change driven by fears of terrorists or desires for natural resources. 
 Officials at one leading relief organization, Refugees International, warned of the risk that Africom ''will take over many humanitarian and development activities that soldiers aren't trained to perform.'' 
 In a statement, Kenneth H. Bacon, the president of Refugees International, said that the creation of Africa Command was ''a sign of increased U.S. attention to Africa.'' But he also said that it was ''important that Africom focus on training peacekeepers and helping African countries build militaries responsive to civilian control and democratic government.'' 
 Mr. Bacon, a Pentagon spokesman in the Clinton administration, added, ''The military should stick to military tasks and let diplomats and development experts direct other aspects of U.S. policy in Africa.'' 
 Refugees International released statistics showing that the percentage of development assistance controlled by the Defense Department had grown to nearly 22 percent from 3.5 percent over the past 10 years, while the percentage controlled by the Agency for International Development dropped to 40 percent from 65 percent. 
 General Ward rejected criticisms that Africa Command would result in a militarization of foreign policy, and he said it was specifically structured for cooperative efforts across the agencies of the United States government.
 For example, a deputy commander at Africom is Ambassador Mary Carlin Yates, a career Foreign Service officer. And General Ward himself previously served in a combined diplomatic and military role, as director of efforts to help reform the Palestinian security services.
 But concerns remain that whatever arena the Pentagon enters, it has more money, more personnel and more power than any other government organization, American or foreign. 
 ''If we can bring a capability that can be an assist to one of our interagency partners, then I think we ought to do that,'' General Ward said. ''But I draw a distinction between leading that effort and supporting that effort. We don't create policy. This is not the job of a unified command. We implement those aspects of policy that have military implications. And we support others.'' 
 Planners abandoned early intentions to base Africa Command in Africa, perhaps with a major headquarters and regional satellite offices. Owing to local sensitivities, security concerns and simple logistics of moving around the vast continent, which often requires routing through Europe, the command will for now have its headquarters in Stuttgart, Germany. 
 General Ward said that in creating the Africa Command, he had been in close contact with his counterpart atop the military's Southern Command, Adm. James G. Stavridis, who has received high marks from Pentagon leaders for converting the military presence in Central and South America. Where previously Southern Command emphasized direct military action, it now focuses on programs to train and support local forces, and assist economic development, health services and counternarcotics efforts.
 ''The more I look at this region over the two years I have been at Southcom,'' Admiral Stavridis said in an interview, ''the more convinced I am that the approach we need to take for U.S. national security in the region is really an interagency approach. 
 ''Think of the problems that afflict this region -- natural disasters, poverty, the narcotics trade, lack of medical care,'' he said. ''Our thought at Southcom is, How can we be supportive of an interagency approach? How can we partner with other interagency actors, and then tie that together with our international partners?'' 
 Admiral Stavridis said Southern Command was ''very directly and consciously not taking the lead.''
 ''We are trying to be part of the team, to be a facilitator,'' he added.
 But George Withers, a senior fellow at the Washington Office on Latin America, a nonprofit research and human-rights advocacy organization, said in a statement that ''while improved delivery of U.S. assistance is certainly an admirable goal,'' putting Southern Command into a coordinating role on issues like corruption, crime or poverty ''drains authority from the State Department and resources from the Defense Department.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: With Africa Command, Gen. William E. Ward said, a goal is ''to prevent conflict, as opposed to having to react to a conflict.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ARMIES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TERRORISM (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); ENGINEERING (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); COUNTERTERRORISM (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EQUATOR (78%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%) AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



203 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: TOXIC BAILOUT

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
Send comments and suggestions to: safirelanguage@nytimes.com

 BODY:
At the unregulated Bank of Linguistics, there's been a run on toxic.
 Headline in The Sunday Times (in London): ''Henry Paulson buries U.S. Toxic Debt,'' with the lead describing the Treasury secretary's task as ''to save the American economy by drawing out the toxic waste that is threatening to destroy it.'' 
 A reader in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, was curious about such toxicity: ''As I understand it, the 'toxic' debt I backed by property, but not to the value of the debt at the moment.'' If the property value rises next year, however, ''at which point it will become nontoxic. Or am I missing something?'' 
 The Financial Times did not miss the bubble in the frequency of toxic in its pages: over the past three years, the adjective appeared about five times a week about toxic slicks on rivers and toxic food spiked with industrial methanol, but at the end of September, the number ballooned to 69 times in one week -- driven by toxic loans. Usage of the previously popular subprime is sinking because the word is not scary enough; toxic has taken over. 
 The French word toxique means ''poison,'' from the Greek toxicon, ''poison for arrows.'' In his 1674 Glossographia, Thomas Blount treated it as an English adjective meaning ''venomous, poisonous.'' But ''venomous'' is most often used to describe the danger in snakes like rattlers. ''Poisonous'' -- with that skull and crossbones on the iodine label -- lost some of its fearsomeness as a financial adjective in ''poison pill.'' Hence the newly favored toxic, though Secretary Paulson at first preferred the longer but less panicky ''illiquid assets clogging the financial system.'' He later called the proposed fund ''the troubled asset relief program''; Gretchen Morgenson of The Times acronymed that TARP, ''the kind of thing they spread over muddy fields so you don't spoil your Guccis,'' but I doubt if Paulson's name will fly because ''relief'' was the predecessor word in politics to ''welfare.''
 Time now to put up the dukes of moral hazard: readers of this column were prepared months ago to deal with the pejorative term bailout, a nautical and parachuting term that you will recall was given a financial twist by a Securities and Exchange Commission official in 1940. It means ''a method of averting ruin'' but has gained a sneering sense of ''shoveling taxpayer dollars into a private or municipal enterprise whose failure would supposedly bring about bread lines or at least a troubling downturn.'' 
 One hardline conservative economic columnist, Alan Abelson of Barron's magazine, derogated the efforts of those by employing unprecedented market salvation to avert disaster with this lexical thrust: ''they are merely the essential ingredients of an 'intervention' or, if you prefer, a 'rescue' -- just about anything, in other words, that's semantically sweeter than bailout, with its ugly connotation of a sinking ship.''
 If this era's deliverance from economic evils works, however -- especially if some infusions of capital get paid back or become nontoxic, as they say in Kuala Lampur -- then a portion of debt will lose its sting, and bailout will become less a child of scorn. 
 See-Through Underpants
 The above subhead is designed to maintain reader interest in the subject of financial terminology, an onerous assignment from which Jack Rosenthal -- in his 26th annual summer-substitute On Language column -- saved me this year. He briefly defined toxic waste as ''the bundling of many mortgages into anonymized packages and sold to investors'' and liar's loans as ''offered by banks that have 'practically begged borrowers to fib about their income.' '' But he left me naked shorts, the best metaphor known to gnomes of Zurich since the snake in the tunnel. 
 A short sale is one in which a speculator -- persuaded that the price of a stock is about to (or deserves to) fall -- borrows the stock and then sells those shares immediately. If the price drops, he buys the stock at the lower price and returns those shares to the lender, making money on the company's misfortune; if the price rises, he's ''caught short'' and loses money. A naked short is a sale that is not covered by actually having borrowed the stock or being unable to get it by the delivery date. When the borrowing technique is thus ''abused'' in the case of rumor-sensitive banks, the S.E.C. now demands disclosures and may crack down.
 Headwinds
 A headwind is one that is blowing in your face. It was popularized in the 1920s by pilots; ''bucking a headwind'' cuts down on air speed.
 In economics, the word has become the favorite euphemism for ''things look a little rocky out there''; not toxic, mind you, but you can detect some resistance to profits and job growth ahead. 
 It blew out of the South in the late '80s. Paul Maidment, editor of Forbes.com, recalls its use in those days by Carol Taylor West, an economics forecaster at the University of Florida. Who put it into the media slipstream? ''For months,'' noted the Times economics writer Joel Kurtzman in August 1992, ''Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has been saying the economy is sailing into headwinds.'' His successor, Ben Bernanke, picked up Greenspan's metaphor in June of this year, warning of ''financial headwinds'' that ''boosted inflation.''
 Sometime ahead, when the toxicity dissipates and the bailout pays off, we can expect a breezy new metaphor for the economic outlook: a brisk new tailwind (coined in 1897) causing much flapping of the naked shorts. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (LETTERING BY SHAZ MADANI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC ASSETS (91%); LINGUISTICS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (73%); TAKEOVERS (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (60%); ALCOHOLS (52%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



204 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: October 5, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 2 U.S. HELICOPTERS CRASH: POLAND ENDS IRAQ MISSION
 Two American Black Hawk helicopters crashed in northern Baghdad, killing one Iraqi soldier and wounding two Iraqi soldiers and two American soldiers. Earlier Saturday, Poland's military mission in Iraq was ceremonially brought to a close, and the country's remaining 900 soldiers are expected to be home by the end of October. PAGE 14 
 LEADER REPORTEDLY SEEN
 The North Korean leader Kim Jong-il, who is believed by South Korean and United States officials to have suffered a stroke, recently made his first public appearance in more than a month, the North's state-run news agency reported. Mr. Kim watched a soccer game held to mark the 62nd anniversary of the founding of Kim Il Sung University, the North's premier institution of higher education, the agency said. PAGE 13 
 15 TURKISH SOLDIERS KILLED
 Fifteen Turkish soldiers were killed and at least 20 were wounded in an attack Friday night by Kurdish separatist rebels in the mountainous border area in eastern Turkey, Turkish officials said. Twenty-three Kurdish fighters of the Kurdistan Workers' Party were also killed. The attack was the most serious in a year, and the Turkish authorities will be under pressure to respond. PAGE 15
 NATIONAL
 FOR RIVALS, COMPETITION
 Turns Into Concern
 For years the gleeful competition between homegrown Wachovia and the larger Bank of America left Charlotte, N.C., a clear winner. But last week, as Wachovia, which employs 20,000 people in Charlotte, became the latest financial institution to succumb to the credit crisis, that long spirit of competition between the two banks swiftly turned to concern. PAGE 16
 A GRIM RECOVERY TASK
 Three weeks after Hurricane Ike hit Texas, at least 34 people from the Bolivar Peninsula, where the storm did the worst damage, are missing and some are presumed dead. Volunteers and state rescue workers have been combing miles of debris on the peninsula and in the marshes on the east side of Galveston Bay, using dogs trained to find human bodies. The bodies of two people from the Bolivar Peninsula have been recovered so far. PAGE 16 
 WYOMING'S FLUSH TIMES
 No, things are not tough all over. Things are not tough in Wyoming, for example, where the gas industry has almost single-handedly set the state in stark contrast to the rest of the nation. While other states are laying off workers and cutting programs, Wyoming has enjoyed billions of dollars in surpluses, and field workers and those in the industries that support them have deep pockets. PAGE 27
 OBITUARIES
 BORIS YEFIMOV, 109
 A Russian cartoonist despised by Hitler and beloved by Stalin for 70 years and 70,000 drawings wielded his talent as a keen sword to advance the goals of his country. PAGE 32
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 IN THE LAND OF FINANCE,
 An Uneasy Sensation
 Darien, Conn., is said to have the nation's highest percentage of residents working in financial industries. And while there is still some sense of the old normal, ''there's the nagging fear we're like Wile E. Coyote having zoomed over the cliff, blithely walking on air as long as he manages not to look down and ponder the void below,'' Peter Applebome writes in Our Towns. PAGE 34
 HELP FOR DETAINEES
 An online video game created by an international human rights organization retells the story of the death of a Guinean tailor held in a New Jersey jail for overstaying his visa. It is part of an effort to get public support for efforts to strengthen oversight, due process and medical help in immigration detention. PAGE 35
 SPORTS
 N.F.L. DEFENSES
 Get an Equalizer
 Since 1994, quarterbacks in the N.F.L. have worn a speaker in their helmets allowing them to hear communication from a coach. Since then, scoring has exploded, completion percentages have increased and defenses have complained. This year, defenses get that same advantage, which one coach says ''obviously levels the playing field.'' PAGE 1
 THE MAGAZINE
 GREEN CAPITALISM
 Comes to the Rescue
 Can the venture capitalists at Kleiner Perkins reduce our dependence on oil, help stop global warming and make a lot of money at the same time? PAGE 54
 A CONGRESSMAN GIVES UP
 Representative Thomas M. Davis III of Virginia was a star in the Republican Party. Now, like dozens of his Republican colleagues, he's quitting Congress, fed up with his party, his president and the process. PAGE 62
 DO THE RIGHT THING
 Refusing to provide a friend with false documentation for a better job, and booby-trapping a Navy barracks locker to guard against theft. The Ethicist. PAGE 21
 Questions for: 
 Edgar M. Bronfman Sr. 13
 BOOK REVIEW
 STARTING OUT FUNNY,
 But Taking a Detour
 ''Deafness is comic, as blindness is tragic,'' the narrator says in David Lodge's new book ''Deaf Sentence.'' But while Lodge propels the story with ''consistently witty'' writing, Stephen Amidon says in his review, eventually ''the farce Lodge promised early on has given way to bittersweet domestic drama.'' PAGE 11
 IRAQ'S GOOD NEWS
 In ''Tell Me How This Ends,'' Linda Robinson argues that Gen. David Petraeus and the ''surge'' policy in Iraq have produced positive results that even Democrats would be hard-pressed to deny. James Traub calls the book ''a first-rate piece of work, probing and conscientious.'' PAGE 19
 TRAVEL
 IN ERITREA, RECALLING
 La Dolce Vita
 A bloody history of conflict and civil war left Eritrea, once the jewel in Italy's African crown, hermetically sealed to the outside world, a nation locked in a time capsule. The result is a surreal, out-of-body tourist experience, where you feel dislocated from just about everywhere else, but euphoric and inspired by what is in front of you. PAGE 3
 ARTS & LEISURE
 10 VOICES TOGETHER,
 Taking Another Shot
 When an original member uploaded a 1998 clip from Straight No Chaser, an undergraduate a cappella group from Indiana University long since graduated and disbanded, to YouTube, he did it for the members' own amusement. But after Craig Kallman, the chairman and chief executive of Atlantic Records, saw it, he approached the group with a record deal. PAGE 1
 ONCE MORE TO THE WELL
 American moviegoers have given the cold shoulder to films about Iraq and the war on terror (unless you count the stoner comedy ''Harold & Kumar Escape From Guantanamo Bay.'') But what if you gathered two of the world's biggest movie stars, one of its most celebrated directors, an Oscar-winning screenwriter and a novel? The result is ''Body of Lies,'' which opens Friday. PAGE 13
 STYLES
 WHEN MAN'S BEST FRIEND
 Purrs Instead of Barks
 The popular image associates cats (maybe lots of them) with ''cat ladies''-- and, this time of year, witches, provided the cats are black. But it seems that a growing number of men are embracing their feline side and posting photographs and videos of their little buddies on YouTube and on Web sites like menandcats.com. PAGE 2
 THE ONE YOU'RE WITH
 One might think that polyamory -- maintaining multiple steady relationships, with the consent of all involved -- would offer the promise of boundless sex. And maybe it does, for some. But what it definitely calls for is lots of talking: to one another, for starters, and to others, to explain how you live. PAGE 9
 KEY
 WHEN HOME IS A CASTLE,
 And Family Comes to Stay
 Sam and Perlin Dobson bought a run-down castle in the Scottish Highlands and then invited the entire Dobson clan to live there. That's when things took a disastrous turn. PAGE 76
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 YOUR MAIL? 
 Sorry, Can't Have It
 Suppose you try to log on to your Gmail account and find yourself locked out, the innocent victim of security measures that automatically suspend access if someone tries unsuccessfully to log on repeatedly to an account. You would probably want to talk to somebody about it. Well, tough. That's not an option. PAGE 4
 NOT-SO-SMART MONEY
 The so-called smart money seems to avoiding three big investment categories: index funds, dividend-paying companies and small caps. On paper, that seems to make perfect sense in these times. If you do a little homework, however, you will notice that some of these ideas haven't panned out. At least not yet. Fundamentally, by Paul J. Lim. PAGE 6
 AUTOMOBILES
 FUEL-EFFICIENT BIKES, 
 Without That Dull Feel
 Commuters looking for a two-wheel ride for fuel economy have a variety of options that don't have to be dull, including the Vespa GTS 250. Its advertisements say it's the fastest Vespa ever, it gets about 60 miles to a gallon of gas and people turn their heads and smile when you whoosh by. It looks and feels cool. PAGE 1 (Page 16 in Sunday Business in some copies) 
 Week in Review
 TRYING TO SURVIVE
 The Comic Onslaught
 These days, politicians of any note can pretty much count on drawing some degree of ridicule from the Lenos, Lettermans and Stewarts of the world -- as Sarah Palin is no doubt learning. The trick is not to be defined by the comic observations. (Did Dan Quayle ever fully recover?) PAGE 3
 CARRYING THE G.O.P. BRAND
 John McCain and his running mate are quick to call the senator a maverick. One person not happy about it is Terrellita Maverick, 82, a San Antonio native who knows a little something about what the term was intended to mean. PAGE 2
 Editorial
 IN THE ECONOMY
 After the Senate approved the $700 billion bank bailout, the majority leader, Harry Reid, tried to persuade his colleagues to extend unemployment benefits for 800,000 jobless Americans. The measure failed. Benefits start expiring this week. So much for Main Street. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 8
 Op-Ed
 FRANK RICH
 It's an Obama-Palin race about ''the future,'' and John McCain is the only person who doesn't seem to know it. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Politics and economics are always inextricably intertwined. Americans can expect a big surprise after the next president steps into the Oval Office and spells out the ramifications of being a debtor nation. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 A recent survey has suggested that Barack Obama's support would be about six percentage points higher if he were white. But this is not because of dyed-in-the-wool racists. On the contrary, the evidence is that Senator Obama is suffering from what scholars have dubbed ''racism without racists.'' WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 The Times reported last month that John McCain's campaign manager was paid nearly $2 million over five years by an advocacy group set up by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to avoid stricter government regulation. In response, McCain's chief strategist said that The Times is ''completely, totally, 150 percent in the tank'' for Barack Obama. The Public Editor looks at the record. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); HELICOPTERS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); SOCCER (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); DISASTER RELIEF (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); DOGS (67%); CREDIT CRISIS (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); STROKES (55%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: KONGRA-GEL (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); POLAND (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



205 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
JAY LENO
 Hey, before we begin, I want to warn people in Nigeria who might be watching our show. If you get any e-mails from Washington asking for money, it's a scam. 
 Lawmakers that are for the bailout argued that the government could actually end up making money on this deal, in much the same way that the government made money on Amtrak and the Post Office. Oh yeah, that money is just rolling in.
 DAVID LETTERMAN
 Have you been watching Sarah Palin's interviews with Katie Couric? Last night, Palin told Couric that she can't name a Supreme Court ruling that she disagrees with. The best she could come up with was the time Judge Judy ruled against the landlord.
 Right now, the only winner in this economic mess is vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin, who has all her money in pelts.
 CONAN O'BRIEN
 Yesterday, the Dow Jones average dropped 777 points, which wiped out $1.2 trillion in the stock market. Financial experts say the last time that much money disappeared in one day was when Oprah left her purse in a cab.
 Hugh Hefner has asked Sarah Palin to pose nude for Playboy magazine. Palin said she'd agree to pose for Playboy as long as there's no interview.
 CRAIG FERGUSON
 Barack Obama is a bit of a celebrity, and people say that's why he breaks fund-raising records. But John McCain breaks records, too -- usually vinyl records as he forces them into his CD player.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS (CARTOONS BY STEVE BREEN, SAN DIEGO UNION-TRIBUNE, CREATORS SYNDICATE
JEFF STAHLER, COLUMBUS DISPATCH, UNITED FEATURE SYNDICATE
 SCOTT STANTIS, BIRMINGHAM NEWS, COPLEY NEWS SERVICES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); CELEBRITIES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (90%); JAY LENO (74%); KATIE COURIC (69%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); CONAN O'BRIEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); JOHN MCCAIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



206 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: The Counterinsurgent

BYLINE: By JAMES TRAUB. 
James Traub, a contributing writer for The Times Magazine, is the author of ''The Freedom Agenda: Why America Must Spread Democracy (Just Not the Way George Bush Did).''

 BODY:
TELL ME HOW THIS ENDS
 General David Petraeus and the Search for a Way Out of Iraq
 By Linda Robinson
 Illustrated. 411 pp. PublicAffairs. $27.95
 Gen. David Petraeus says that he has no desire to meddle in politics, but he may have more to do with the outcome of the presidential election than any other nonpolitician. As commanding officer in Iraq throughout 2007 and much of this year, Petraeus has served as the chief architect and champion of the ''surge'' policy there. (He has now moved on to become commander of the American military's Central Command.) As the number of both American and Iraqi deaths has plunged, and as the prospects for real political change have improved, it has become increasingly difficult for Barack Obama to argue that the surge, which he opposed and John McCain passionately supported, has been a failure. Obama may have to hope that after five years of mayhem and empty promises, the American people are past caring. 
 Linda Robinson's ''Tell Me How This Ends'' is the first book about this new Iraq. It's a first-rate piece of work, probing and conscientious, though reading a good-news book about one of America's all-time bad-news stories can take some getting used to. The Iraq calamity has been a colossal boon to journalists, and the scenes that Robinson's predecessors have etched into readers' minds combine equal elements of tragedy and farce. The hopelessly unprepared Jay Garner, the first head of civilian reconstruction, cheerfully informing a group of anxious sheiks that they're on their own -- that's the Iraq we know. Robinson forces us to look again. 
 ''Tell Me How This Ends'' is scarcely a bouquet to the administration. Robinson, author in residence at the Philip Merrill Center for Strategic Studies at the Johns Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies, describes President Bush as blindly, and ruinously, attached to Nuri al-Maliki, Iraq's slow-moving leader. She does give Bush credit for supporting the few military thinkers who in late 2006, in the face of opposition from the State Department and the civilian Pentagon, argued that 30,000 additional troops could make a decisive difference. But this is a book about military strategy and tactics; and the president and his entourage do not linger long. 
 Indeed, you cannot help being struck by the radical difference between Bush and his world, and Petraeus and his. The 55-year-old general is a superachiever who took on all the toughest training assignments and came away with the medals, a perfectionist who demands as much from others as from himself and a deeply reflective figure -- he has a Ph.D. in international relations from Princeton -- who continually adapts to the lessons of experience. Petraeus puts no special store by his gut intuitions; in Iraq, he surrounded himself with junior officers as analytical, and as driven, as he is. Robinson singles out as his greatest gift not leadership but ''intellectual rigor,'' which compelled him ''to mount a sustained effort to understand the problem.'' 
 The problem, which had thoroughly eluded Bush and his chief aides, as well as prior commanding officers up to and including Gen. George Casey, Petraeus's immediate predecessor, was that no number of American troops would make a lasting difference unless they could affect the Iraqis' own political calculations. While serving as a commanding officer at Fort Leavenworth in 2006, Petraeus had brought together leading civilian and military thinkers to produce a new version of the Army's counterinsurgency manual. The document's central theme was political rather than military: A counterinsurgency can succeed only if it makes the government legitimate in the eyes of its citizens. This requires economic aid, governance reform, improvement in basic services and the like. And it requires an act of understanding, even empathy: ''Knowing why an insurgent movement has gained support,'' the manual states, ''is essential in designing a counterinsurgency campaign.'' 
 Petraeus proceeded to implement his strategy with relentless focus (and those 30,000 extra troops). A correct strategy forcefully executed will take you a long way -- but not all the way. As we know now, Petraeus's arrival in Iraq coincided with the fateful decision of Sunni tribal sheiks to stand up to the extremists of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, who had worn out their welcome by, for example, throwing acid in the faces of women deemed insufficiently veiled. Thanks to the ''Anbar Awakening,'' as it was called, 100,000 Sunni men joined the fight against extremism. The fallback position among Democrats, which Joe Biden articulated last month on ''Meet The Press,'' is that it wasn't the surge that worked, but the Awakening. 
 Robinson makes it clear that this simply isn't so. She describes in exacting detail the tactics used by field officers in some of the most terrifying battlegrounds of Iraq. When the First Battalion, Fifth Cavalry Regiment of the First Cavalry Division was assigned in late 2006 to Ameriya, in western Baghdad, the commander, Lt. Col. Dale Kuehl, moved his headquarters out of the base camp and into a local police station. He and his staff officers had read up on ''battalion-led counterinsurgency,'' and were eager to put its precepts into effect. Kuehl began building contacts with local sheiks, and spreading money around by paying for trash pickup and road repair. Then he began ''clearing'' operations against insurgents. The cost was high: 14 deaths in May alone. 
 Robinson lingers on the heroic self-discipline of officers who denied their men the catharsis of revenge, knowing that they were fighting for the sympathies of civilians. And finally, that discipline paid off. In late May, a local sheik called Kuehl to say that his tribesmen would be going after an Al Qaeda cell. When the sheik called back in a panic to ask for help, Kuehl joined the fight. His men weren't sure which Iraqis to shoot at, but the battle went well, and later Kuehl reached an understanding with the commander of the tribal force: he promised to pay the Sunnis, many of them former insurgents, if they submitted to fingerprinting and agreed to work with the Iraqi Army. When Petraeus learned of the deal, his only advice was, ''Do not let our Army stop you,'' and ''Do not let the Iraqi government stop you.'' 
 Counterinsurgency theory holds that military action can only be a precondition for political success. And Robinson readily concedes that President Maliki and other Iraqi national leaders have so far refused to pursue compromise. Indeed, journalists and policy analysts have been reporting that Maliki has reneged on promises to induct Awakening members into the Iraqi Army and police, threatening a return to the Hobbesian violence of 2006. Robinson holds out hope that coming elections will produce a more legitimate government. She supports Petraeus's preference for a gradual draw-down of forces as the Iraqi Army assumes control of ground-level operations. And she argues that a swifter withdrawal would jeopardize the fragile gains of the last year. 
 Petraeus has come in for a great deal of abuse from opponents of the war, most notoriously when he testified in September 2007 that the surge was working, and Moveon.org took out a full-page ad in The New York Times whose headline read, ''General Petraeus or General Betray Us?''At the time, the military top brass, worried about stretching the Army to the breaking point, continued to oppose the surge; Democratic congressmen, progressive organizations and many pundits mocked Petraeus as a Bush administration shill. But Petraeus was right; and Moveon's question sounds almost repellent in retrospect. Indeed, Robinson leaves the reader feeling that, however the war turns out, our country owes David Petraeus a debt of gratitude.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); WRITERS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (90%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Tell Me How This Ends (Book)>; Tell Me How This Ends (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



207 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CONGRESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: When 535 Take On Number 1

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
-- Forget, for a second, the image of fat-cat plutocrats walking away with taxpayer money. Forget the sound and fury on the talk shows and Internet. Last week's eruption over the $700 billion financial rescue plan was also the climax of an eight-year tug-of-war between President Bush and Congress over who's really in charge in Washington. It turns out neither is, at least not alone.
 Although Congress allowed the administration to buy $700 billion in troubled securities, it made sure to impose its will on the program first. Rather than the three-page draft by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., seeking nearly unchecked power to save the economy, lawmakers crafted a 450-page alternative to keep some control of the process. No more bended-knee deference to unilateral executive authority. Congress insisted on being a full partner.
 Yet for all the safeguards built into the new program, at the end of the day, it still gives the administration extraordinary latitude, making Mr. Paulson the most powerful Treasury secretary in generations. So, after eight years of claiming vast autonomy to act as he saw fit, the president who popularized the term ''unitary executive'' is wrapping up his tenure still fighting to expand the scope of his office while Congress and the courts struggle to set boundaries. 
 The office Mr. Bush will leave on Jan. 20 in many ways will be stronger than the one he inherited in 2001. The executive branch now has broader authority to investigate and detain suspected terrorists, and the president aggressively asserted the ability to interpret as he chooses the bills he signs. But he has also been forced to back off some of the most sweeping claims of power, and even some former advisers say that by overreaching, he will leave his successor a weaker office in the long run.
 ''Like Clinton, Bush has in some ways undermined executive power, though for very different reasons,'' said Bradford A. Berenson, who was on the White House legal team that pushed the envelope in Mr. Bush's first term. ''Clinton undermined it through personal misconduct. Bush has undermined it by failing to show proper respect for the Congress. And so he set in motion a kind of backlash by both the Congress and the courts.''
 The struggle for supremacy dates to the nation's birth. George Washington fought with Congress over its right to investigate a botched military expedition. Abraham Lincoln suspended habeas corpus and freed the slaves, with Congress ratifying his actions only afterward. Franklin D. Roosevelt quarreled so much with Congress and the courts over enacting the New Deal that he tried to pack the Supreme Court with more justices. Congress tried to restrain Dwight D. Eisenhower's ability to negotiate diplomatic agreements with a constitutional amendment that barely failed. Ronald Reagan tripped up during the Iran-contra scandal by defying a Congressional ban on aid to Nicaraguan rebels. And Bill Clinton was impeached by the House (but acquitted in the Senate) for lying under oath about sexual trysts in the Oval Office.
 The modern nadir in presidential power came during the administration of Richard M. Nixon, whose extra-constitutional adventures resulted in his resignation and a burst of Congressional activism intended to constrain the executive's ability to wage war, conduct intelligence operations and spend money. A young Dick Cheney, chief of staff for the weak, unelected president who followed Nixon, Gerald R. Ford, resolved when he returned to the White House a quarter-century later to do all he could to restore that lost power.
 The ''unitary executive'' theory he embraced held that because the Constitution provides for only one executive branch, Congress cannot intrude upon the president's duties to manage the government. ''Congress has by nicks and cuts over the last 30 years done a lot to limit presidential authority,'' said Shannen W. Coffin, Mr. Cheney's counsel until last year. ''The president and vice president did put their foot down to Congress. A lot of the things the president stood up to have been happening since the Nixon White House.''
 With the acquiescence of a Republican Congress and a public eager to fight terrorism, Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney advanced their cause for years -- the secret deliberations of an energy task force; the Patriot Act; ''signing statements'' that express reservations about enforcing a bill; warrantless surveillance; unrestricted detention of terrorism suspects; the reinterpretation of the Geneva Conventions.
 But as Mr. Bush's sky-high approval ratings collapsed, so did his capacity to preserve that newfound power. Lawmakers and judges began forcing him to seek legislative approval for military commissions and eavesdropping, proscribing interrogation techniques and trimming back some investigative powers. Even many Republicans, resentful of the White House dictating what they should do, joined with Democrats who recaptured Congress in 2006.
 ''The fact that presidential leadership stalled here is a return to normalcy in presidential-Congressional relations,'' said Andrew Rudalevige, author of ''The New Imperial Presidency'' and a Dickinson College professor. ''After all, presidential influence in Congress is usually a matter of degree, not of decree.''
 So where is Mr. Bush leaving things? Many in Washington believe the presidency remains stronger but faces a rocky road ahead. ''As of this moment, I think he has succeeded,'' said Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, a Republican who fought Mr. Bush's expansive view of executive prerogative. But when January arrives, Mr. Specter said, ''there's going to be a strong view to reasserting Congressional authority.''
 Norman J. Ornstein, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, said that for now ''the institutional presidency is marginally stronger'' but the counterrevolution will leave it weaker. Ronald A. Klain, who was chief of staff to Vice President Gore, said that on paper Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney have accrued more power, ''but their abuse of that power has raised new scrutiny, doubts and skepticism about such power.''
 Mr. Berenson, the White House lawyer who helped develop Mr. Bush's early policies, said he now believed it was a mistake to move without getting Congress to buy in, at least eventually. He said he agreed with Jack Landman Goldsmith, a former Bush Justice Department official, who wrote in a recent book that such an approach would have built a stronger foundation for policies on detention and interrogation. After all, despite the furor over the eavesdropping program, Congress ultimately agreed to a modified version of it.
 Others dismiss that. ''It's naive,'' said David B. Rivkin Jr., a former Justice Department official who served under Presidents Reagan and George H. W. Bush. A wartime president must act boldly without 535 second-guessers, he said, so the proper question is not whether Mr. Bush expanded his office's power, but whether he did so compared to past wartime presidents. ''What we're seeing is the weakest independent executive authority in wartime in American history,'' he said.
 While the debate has focused on security, the lurching path to a bailout bill showed some the need for a strong president who can confront economic threats, too. ''The financial crisis reminds us just how indispensable the executive is for navigating an exceedingly complex policy challenge,'' said Thomas E. Mann of the Brookings Institution, who with Mr. Ornstein wrote ''The Broken Branch,'' a Congressional history. But Mr. Mann said Congress tried toavoid giving the president a blank check by erecting a scaffolding of oversight, monitoring and transparency.
 Mr. Bush's would-be successors are promising more restraint. Barack Obama told a group of congressmen over the summer that he would review Mr. Bush's executive orders and cancel those that infringe civil liberties. John McCain even said he would come to Congress to submit to questions in the well, as British prime ministers do.
 But that invites some skepticism. ''The question is, will the next president ratchet back the power taken by the president? I don't think so,'' said James Thurber, director of American University's Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies. ''I believe in the Ratchet Theory of Power. Once you see how you can use the power of signing statements, nobody wants to go back on it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SHOWTIME: Speaker Nancy Pelosi signs off on House passage of the bailout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (72%); MISCONDUCT (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); HABEAS CORPUS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HENRY PAULSON (72%); NANCY PELOSI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



208 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; POWER PLAYS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1553 words

HEADLINE: How Free Should A Free Market Be?

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

 BODY:
Is this the end of hypercapitalism?
 For nearly a generation, the United States has driven growth by deregulating markets, lowering tax rates and promoting trade. Across wide swaths of the economy -- from airlines to banks to energy to telecommunications -- Washington stood aside, believing less regulation would produce broad prosperity, even at the cost of greater income inequality.
 Now, with Washington setting aside $700 billion to bail out financial companies, the economy weakening daily and the Democrats likely to enlarge their majorities in Congress, it may seem that the United States is shifting away from faith in markets and distrust of government.
 In Europe, some political leaders, including conservatives like President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, have declared the death of laissez-faire economics. ''A certain idea of globalization is drawing to a close with the end of a financial capitalism that imposed its logic on the whole economy,'' Mr. Sarkozy said last month. ''The idea that the markets are always right was a crazy idea.'' 
 What about America? In one sense, the present crisis would seem likely to continue the retreat from the free-market ideas associated with Ronald Reagan and President Bush suggested by the passage of the Medicare drug benefit plan in 2003 and the failure of Mr. Bush's proposal to privatize Social Security in 2005, the centerpiece of his vision of an ''ownership society.'' Then, in 2006, Democrats took Congress for the first time in 12 years.
 Whoever becomes president in January, lawmakers will be under pressure to strengthen financial regulation and give more resources to agencies like the Food and Drug Administration, which have appeared overwhelmed in recent years. Some critics of the bailout legislation complain, for instance, that at the same time that it empowers the Treasury Department to buy hundreds of billions in troubled debt from financial firms, it fails to fortify oversight of the nation's financial system.
 But Americans are fundamentally suspicious of government in a way that Europeans are not, a cultural and political difference that stretches back centuries. Anyone expecting a major expansion of Washington's powers after November -- whether under a Barack Obama or John McCain administration -- may be disappointed.
 Americans are certainly weary of Mr. Bush, whose approval rating fell to 22 percent in the most recent poll by CBS News, the lowest rating for any president since Harry S. Truman in 1952. But this poll, and others, also show that whatever their anger at Mr. Bush and Wall Street, Americans are not necessarily ready to embrace liberal ideals such as stronger unions, significantly higher and more progressive taxes, and new trade barriers.
 A deep, long-lasting recession could change that dynamic, just as the inflation and severe recessions of the 1970s fueled the last major ideological shift in American politics with the election in 1980 of Mr. Reagan, a fervent apostle of lower taxes, free markets and deregulation.
 But for now, the United States economy is far stronger than it was in the 1970s. The credit crunch, swooning stock market and rising unemployment are frightening, but economists are still predicting a relatively mild recession. The unemployment rate, for example, has risen from 4.4 percent in March 2007 to 6.1 percent at the end of September, but it is far below the post-World War II peak of 10.8 percent in November 1982. And while the Standard & Poor's 500 index of big stocks has fallen by nearly 30 percent since its peak in 2007, it had dropped nearly 50 percent between 2000 and 2002.
 The relatively mild recessions of 1990 and 2001 did not shake Americans' faith in free-market principles, said Robert D. Reischauer, president of the non-partisan Urban Institute. Mr. Reischauer directed the Congressional Budget Office between 1989 and 1994, when Democrats controlled Congress. Similarly, this recession will probably not produce a major shift, unless it turns out to be much longer and more severe than economists expect, Mr. Reischauer said.
 ''We're basically a conservative country,'' he said. ''And one would expect that to be the case when one has as much stuff as we have to conserve.'' 
 Doug Schoen, a Democratic strategist and pollster who worked for President Bill Clinton for six years, said that should Mr. Obama win next month, he should not mistake his election for a mandate for sharply higher taxes on the wealthy or major government expansion. ''The polling I've done shows that people are anti-Republican, not pro-left, not pro-redistribution,'' he said. ''They're ever more skeptical of Washington.''
 For example, in the poll by CBS News released earlier this week, 44 percent of Americans said businesses now faced ''too much'' or ''the right amount'' of regulation, compared to 43 percent who said they faced too little. In a New York Times/CBS News Poll in September, 42 percent said Mr. Bush's tax cuts, which overwhelmingly benefit the wealthy, should be made permanent, while 36 percent said they should be allowed to expire over the next several years.
 Most strikingly, 34 percent described themselves as conservative, compared to only 20 percent as liberal. Those figures have hardly changed since September 2000, when 32 percent described themselves as conservative and 20 percent as liberal.
 Newt Gingrich, the former Republican speaker of the House, said the financial crisis has benefited Mr. Obama and Democratic Congressional candidates. But Mr. Gingrich added that if Mr. Obama is elected and presses too hard for liberal policies, Democrats may be repudiated by voters in 2010, just as they were in 1994, two years after Mr. Clinton was elected president and offered proposals for national health insurance and higher energy taxes that failed in Congress.
 ''You have to convince a country that watched Katrina, that watched Baghdad, that watched Fannie and Freddie, now the answer's going to be to pile more junk on top of the junk we already have,'' Mr. Gingrich said of new government programs.
 Some Democrats think that Americans are ready for at least a moderate turn to a more activist government.
 Lawrence Summers, who was secretary of the Treasury under President Clinton, said that even before the financial crisis, Americans were concerned about income inequality and the cost of health care, and increasingly aware that those problems cannot be addressed by market solutions alone. Indeed, in a poll in August by the Pew Research Center, 63 percent of Americans said they favored government-guaranteed health insurance, even at the cost of higher taxes, while only 34 percent opposed it.
 ''There has been a substantial change in the intellectual climate,'' he said. ''It's a change that antedates the financial crisis, and I think it will only be reinforced by the financial crisis.''
 Jeffrey Garten, a professor at the Yale School of Management who was an undersecretary of commerce in the Clinton administration, said lawmakers are likely to impose stricter regulatory oversight on several industries -- especially financial companies and markets. Having established itself, at great expense, as the financier of last resort, the government will no longer blithely accept banks' assurances that they are safe, Mr. Garten said. Instead, Congress will give the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve new powers to oversee financial institutions, Mr. Garten said.
 ''The government's going to be inside them,'' he said. Mr. Garten also said he expected the F.D.A and Consumer Product Safety Commission to receive increased funding and stronger oversight powers. ''The whole issue of food and product safety -- it's a total mess,'' he said. ''We are headed for an extensive regulatory re-think.''
 David Ruder, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission and now a professor emeritus at the Northwestern University School of Law, said he also thought that much stricter financial regulation was necessary, both in the United States and internationally. ''The events, even as they're unfolding today, are revealing the need for much closer cooperation among financial regulators,'' he said.
 But, in a sign of the opposition that Democrats will face as they try to strengthen regulation, Mr. Ruder said that he did not think regulatory reform would be easy to implement, even in the financial sector. Even after receiving massive government aid this year, banks may fight stronger government oversight next year, he said.
 The banking and finance industries are major political donors and powerful lobbying forces in Washington. Lawmakers who voted for the bailout received substantially more in contributions over their careers from the finance, insurance and real estate industries than those who voted against it, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit group that tracks political contributions.
 ''I'm scared about the next year but I'm very optimistic we'll come out of this in good shape,'' he said. ''We very well may come out of this horrible situation with a better version of American capitalism -- it'll be a little tamer; it'll be a little more regulated.''
 ''But this country is built on an appetite for risk,'' he added. ''We don't want to be France.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about whether Americans' faith in the free market would be shaken by the credit crisis misattributed a quotation about the belief that a more regulated economy is likely to emerge. It was Jeffrey Garten, a professor at the Yale School of Management, who said: ''I'm scared about the next year but I'm very optimistic we'll come out of this in good shape. We very well may come out of this horrible situation with a better version of American capitalism -- it'll be a little tamer; it'll be a little more regulated.'' The comment was not by David Ruder, a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission and now a professor emeritus at the Northwestern University School of Law.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY HENNING WAGENBRETH) (pg.WK1 and WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); MEDICARE (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); POLITICS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (71%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (70%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (65%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (68%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



209 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2006 words

HEADLINE: At JetBlue, Growing Up Is Hard to Do

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Mary M. Chapman and Kathryn Carlson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
JETBLUE AIRWAYS was the darling of the airline industry until Valentine's Day, 2007. And life for the carrier hasn't been the same since.
 On what is now known within the company as ''2/14,'' a winter storm paralyzed flights at New York City's airports. Hit hardest was John F. Kennedy International, where JetBlue, which got its start in 2000, has its busiest hub. Its planes were snowbound at gates or stuck on runways, trapping some passengers. 
 The 2/14 fiasco set off a crisis -- emotional, cultural and financial -- that few start-ups might have survived. ''It was pretty humiliating,'' said the airline's chief executive, David Barger, who took charge shortly after that event. 
 Ever since, JetBlue has been on a reinvention drive amid the biggest crisis airlines have faced in years. 
 Last summer, the industry grappled with soaring fuel prices. Now, uncertainties about the economy and consumer spending abound. Though airlines aren't directly affected by the credit crisis -- they depend on ticket sales, not short-term loans, to finance daily operations -- analysts wonder whether economic fears will keep travelers home, making times even tougher. 
 ''It's very important to stabilize the credit markets,'' Mr. Barger said.
 Initial reports from some airlines show that September traffic fell more than expected, even accounting for planned reductions. JetBlue's numbers were not available, but Mr. Barger said he's not anticipating a slowdown.
 Though oil prices have recently fallen, the big airlines are likely to lose a collective $6 billion this year, a prospect that is making them ground planes, cut routes and levy a host of new charges. 
 Investors have shied away from many airlines. Shares in JetBlue, which regularly traded above $14 on an split-adjusted basis in its early years, closed at $4.52 on Friday. Despite some of the headwinds the industry faces, JetBlue says it's confident about the future.
 Last month at Kennedy, JetBlue dedicated Terminal 5, an $800 million project whose design incorporates the long-neglected Trans World Airlines terminal designed by Eero Saarinen. Flights there are scheduled to begin on Oct. 22, when JetBlue moves next door from Terminal 6, a decrepit terminal dating from the dawn of the jet age.
 Though its approach is still jaunty, as seen in its ''Happy Jetting'' slogan, JetBlue is reshaping itself. Notably, it has shifted from its roots as a low-fare carrier and adopted a sober and more nebulous identity as ''a value airline.'' Its charismatic founder, David G. Neeleman, is gone, as is much of his original management team.
 To replace them, Mr. Barger, 50, has recruited executives with backgrounds at places like the Federal Aviation Administration, British Airways and Southwest Airlines, as well as the information technology field.
 JetBlue has sold a stake to Lufthansa of Germany, and it slowed plans to add more planes and cities. It has cut back on transcontinental flights and placed more emphasis on service to the Caribbean. 
 Above all, Mr. Barger, the airline's president under Mr. Neeleman, has instilled a more conservative atmosphere in place of its aggressive emphasis on growth, a point he has emphasized since his first staff meeting.
 In recent months, executives have discussed a plan to keep fares relatively modest and place more emphasis on options for which it can charge extra, like more legroom and refundable tickets. 
 ''The first chapter in my mind was this entrepreneurial company, the establishment of a brand but not an airline,'' Mr. Barger said. ''The second chapter is ensuring that we're very well positioned'' to move ahead. 
 But the track record for new airlines has been poor since industry deregulation; few have lasted more than a decade. Volatile fuel prices and a jittery economy compound the challenges.
 ''There's no real market perception that these guys are survivors, any more than any of them are,'' said Robert W. Mann, an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y. 
 WITH its blue potato chips, blue teddy bears for sale and blue uniforms, JetBlue had an impact on the airline industry from the moment it began flying in 2000. 
 Passengers were tired of paying what were then record prices for fares and were also tired of having flights delayed by slowdowns like one staged by United Airlines pilots in the summer of 2000. 
 Mr. Neeleman, who had worked for Southwest and helped start several airlines, sought to bring civility, and some fun, back to the skies. He founded JetBlue with seed money from investors including George Soros.
 JetBlue's planes -- Airbus A320s and later, Embraer 190s -- included seat-back televisions, leather seats and more space than that of a typical cramped jet. Costs were low because the planes were new and the employees, called ''crewmembers,'' were nonunion. They were trained to treat customers as guests. 
 As JetBlue expanded quickly across the nation, growing 30 percent a year, so did Mr. Neeleman's fame. He became the subject of magazine covers and laudatory books with titles like ''Blue Streak'' and ''Flying High,'' while JetBlue landed on best-airline lists and won a shelf full of customer-service awards.
 But when the 2007 storm hit, much of that good will evaporated. Among those stranded was Mr. Barger, who could not get back to New York from Orlando until more than 24 hours after the storm began.
 Mr. Neeleman found himself the butt of late-night comedy, drawing jabs from David Letterman, whose top-10 list the night after the 2007 storm satirically ran down excuses for JetBlue: ''No. 9: It could have been worse -- no, wait, it couldn't.''
 Despite repeated apologies from Mr. Neeleman, including one on Mr. Letterman's show, JetBlue's reputation was sullied.
 Mr. Barger then succeeded Mr. Neeleman as chief executive, and Mr. Neeleman subsequently gave up the chairman's title in April 2008, to focus on starting a Brazilian carrier. He declined to comment. 
 Mr. Barger is a studious Michigan native whose father was a pilot at United. He has spent his entire career in the industry, beginning as a ticket agent in Detroit for New York Air. After six years at Continental Airlines, he was recruited to be one of JetBlue's original executives in 1998, two years before it began flying.
 Now serving as his president is Russell G. Chew, a former F.A.A. official who watched with concern from Washington as the airline became bogged down after the 2007 storm.
 As soon as he arrived, Mr. Chew knew JetBlue needed more discipline and the technology required to run an airline that had grown from scratch in 2000 to become the nation's ninth-largest, with nearly 11,000 employees, 143 aircraft and 53 destinations in the United States, Mexico and the Caribbean. 
 He dispensed with JetBlue's goal of completing every flight, no matter how many hours, or even days, it was delayed. Now it cancels flights when necessary and tries to let passengers know in advance. Initial steps helped to steady the airline, but by late 2007, cash was draining rapidly as fuel costs jumped, raising speculation that JetBlue, which had lost money in 2005 and 2006, might become a takeover target. 
 Last October, Mr. Barger flew to dinner in Frankfurt at the invitation of Wolfgang Mayrhuber, the chief executive of Lufthansa.
 Seventy days later, Lufthansa paid $300 million for a 19 percent stake in JetBlue, receiving two board seats and giving the airline a source of expertise on the global market. JetBlue raised an additional $165 million by selling convertible debt and arranged a $110 million credit line with Citigroup Global Markets.
 Its timing couldn't have been better. By January, oil prices had climbed above $100 a barrel, plunging the industry into crisis.
 JetBlue has not completely avoided the industry's turbulence, losing $19 million in the first half this year. But raising the money was a prescient step. 
 ''It wasn't clear how important it was until oil spiked,'' said Gary Chase, an airline analyst. ''But it really made a difference.''
 JETBLUE continues to face operational challenges despite the cash infusion, including its on-time arrivals rate, which at times is relatively low. In July, the rate was only 64.6 percent, among the worst for major airlines, which averaged 75.7 percent.
 Airline officials largely attribute the problem to frequent delays at Kennedy, where flights routinely run as much as two hours late even on clear days because of the volume of air traffic.
 But another JetBlue problem was self-inflicted: Pillowgate.
 In August, JetBlue announced that it would charge $7 for a pillow and blanket set on its flights, something that many passengers had come to consider a routine amenity of air travel.
 Coming on the heels of a decision by US Airways to charge $2 for bottled water, the attention nearly rivaled that of the ice storm, again making JetBlue a late-night comedy target and prompting customer ire on Internet message boards.
 Instead of apologizing, however, Mr. Barger spent an hour on ''Larry King Live'' explaining that the kits were far less grungy than the free pillows and blankets that many airlines offered in the past. And passengers were getting a $5 coupon at Bed Bath & Beyond as part of the kit, Mr. Barger said, so the net cost was really $2. Travelers apparently accepted the argument, as JetBlue sold $80,000 worth of kits in the first three weeks they were available, beyond expectations.
 Now JetBlue is trying to sell passengers on something far more sweeping: its new identity. 
 Until 2005, it capped its fares at $299 each way on any ticket. Now, there is no limit and fares can be double that price. They can sometimes be even higher if, for example, passengers pay extra for seats with more legroom or buy refundable fares. 
 In August, JetBlue's average fare was $134 each way, a few dollars less than those of American, Continental and United, but more than Delta, Northwest or US Airways. As recently as January 2007, its fares averaged $88 one-way. ''It's just not a bargain anymore,'' said Mr. Mann, the industry consultant. 
 JetBlue's biggest new change is Terminal 5, financed largely by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. (JetBlue put up $80 million, one-tenth of the cost.)
 The refurbished terminal is 55,000 square feet, with 26 gates and a variety of shopping and dining choices. A smooth transition is vital. In May, British Airways' operations at Heathrow Airport near London were bogged down for a week when baggage handlers couldn't handle the flood of business at its new terminal.
 Robin Hayes, JetBlue's new marketing chief, was at British Airways when the shift took place, and said he learned a valuable lesson: ''Fix it before you move. If we have to delay it, we will.'' JetBlue has: the original opening date was Oct. 1.
 Analysts remain concerned. In a research note last month, William Greene of Morgan Stanley told investors to ''look for signs of an 'all clear' after JetBlue has migrated to its new terminal'' before buying its stock.
 Beyond that, Mr. Greene was skeptical about JetBlue's other shift, to its new value identity. ''We prefer business strategies that are easier to articulate and execute,'' he said. ''And, we worry that JetBlue's down-the-middle approach risks getting 'stuck-in-the-middle.' '' 
 Edward Barnes, JetBlue's chief financial officer, says the airline isn't worried. ''You can't underestimate the brand,'' he said.
 Yet, as countless airlines have learned, a strong brand is not always a shelter from hard times. On a wall of the old Saarinen terminal is a sign commemorating its previous occupant: T.W.A.
 Twenty years ago, T.W.A. carried the most traffic of any American airline across the Atlantic and was one of the first airlines with an all-jet fleet. But the 1990s brought hard times, and in 2001, T.W.A. flew its last flight, before being absorbed by American Airlines.
 T.W.A.'s festive logo is all that remains at an airport where JetBlue is now stepping up to fill its former spot. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the business strategy of JetBlue Airways misstated the size of its new Terminal 5 at Kennedy International Airport in New York. It is 635,000 square feet -- not 55,000 square feet, the size of the retail and food court area within the terminal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Barger, chief of JetBlue, at its new terminal at Kennedy Airport. He has led the airline's reinvention drive. (CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
Volunteers with mock tickets tested JetBlue's new terminal, which incorporates the 1962 building designed by Eero Saarinen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO)(BU12) CHART: Air Pressure: The reinvention drive at JetBlue comes amid tough times for the airline industry JetBlue's fares are now comparable to those of other airlines, but its on-time arrivals rate has sometimes lagged. (Sources: Harrell Associates
 Bureau of Transportation Statistics)(BU12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIR FARES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TICKET SALES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (98%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (98%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (98%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%)

PERSON: DAVID BARGER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



210 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Palin, on Offensive, Attacks Obama's Ties to '60s Radical

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: SEDONA, Ariz. 

 BODY:
Stepping up the Republican ticket's attacks on Senator Barack Obama, Gov. Sarah Palin on Saturday seized on a report about Mr. Obama's relationship with a former 1960s radical to accuse him of ''palling around with terrorists.''
 ''This is not a man who sees America as you see it, and how I see America,'' Ms. Palin, the Republican vice-presidential nominee, said in Colorado, according to a pool report. ''We see America as the greatest force for good in this world. If we can be that beacon of light and hope for others who seek freedom and democracy and can live in a country that would allow intolerance in the equal rights that again our military men and women fight for and die for all of us. 
 ''Our opponent though, is someone who sees America, it seems, as being so imperfect that he's palling around with terrorists who would target their own country.'' 
 The article to which she referred, in The New York Times on Saturday, traced Mr. Obama's sporadic interactions with Bill Ayers, a founder of the Weathermen who later became an education professor in Chicago and worked on education projects there with Mr. Obama, the Democratic nominee for president.
 The article said: ''A review of records of the schools project and interviews with a dozen people who know both men, suggest that Mr. Obama, 47, has played down his contacts with Mr. Ayers, 63. But the two men do not appear to have been close. Nor has Mr. Obama ever expressed sympathy for the radical views and actions of Mr. Ayers.''
 Ms. Palin seized on their relationship after the campaign of Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential nominee, said it planned to shift its strategy and try to turn the campaign into a referendum on Mr. Obama.
 ''Well, I was reading my copy of today's New York Times and I was interested to read about Barack's friends from Chicago,'' Ms. Palin said at the fund-raiser in Englewood, Colo. ''Turns out one of Barack's earliest supporters is a man who, according to The New York Times, and they are hardly ever wrong, was a domestic terrorist and part of a group that, quote, launched a campaign of bombings that would target the Pentagon and U.S. Capitol. Wow. These are the same guys who think patriotism is paying higher taxes.''
 The Obama campaign responded by noting that McCain officials had been quoted as saying that they hoped to ''turn the page'' on the fiscal crisis, which has hurt Mr. McCain's standing in the polls, and to devote more time to attacking Mr. Obama.
 ''Governor Palin's comments, while offensive, are not surprising, given the McCain campaign's statement this morning that they would be launching Swift-boat-like attacks in hopes of deflecting attention from the nation's economic ills,'' said Hari Sevugan, an Obama spokesman. ''What's clear is that John McCain and Sarah Palin would rather spend their time tearing down Barack Obama than laying out a plan to build up our economy.'' 
 Todd Palin Agrees to Interview
 ANCHORAGE (AP) -- Todd Palin plans speak to an investigator looking at abuse-of-power accusations against his wife, Governor Palin, his lawyer, Thomas Van Flein, said Saturday. 
 Mr. Van Flein said he asked the investigator, Timothy Petumenos, an Anchorage lawyer, to reserve the third week of October to interview Mr. Palin, who refused to testify under subpoena last month in an investigation by the Alaska Legislature. 
 Mr. Petumenos is heading a parallel effort by the Alaska State Personnel Board into whether Ms. Palin acted improperly when she fired Walt Monegan as public safety commissioner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); FUNDRAISING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); ARMED FORCES (54%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); SARAH PALIN (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEDONA, AZ, USA (59%) COLORADO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



211 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: A Fight Among Catholics Over Which Party Best Reflects Church Teachings

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
As the Roman Catholic Church observes its annual ''respect life'' Sunday in this heated presidential election season, the unusually pitched competition for Catholic voters is setting off a round of skirmishes over how to apply the church's teachings not only on abortion but also on the war in Iraq, immigration and racism.
 In a departure from previous elections, Democrats and liberal Catholic groups are waging a fight within the church, arguing that the Democratic Party better reflects the full spectrum of church teachings. 
 It is a contest for credibility among observant Catholics, with each faction describing itself as a defender of ''life.'' The two sides disagree over how to address the ''intrinsic evil'' of abortion. 
 The escalating efforts by more-liberal Catholics are provoking a vigorous backlash from some bishops and the right. 
 In Scranton, Pa., every Catholic attending Mass this weekend will hear a special homily about the election next month: Bishop Joseph Martino has ordered every priest in the diocese to read a letter warning that voting for a supporter of abortion rights amounts to endorsing ''homicide.'' 
 ''Being 'right' on taxes, education, health care, immigration and the economy fails to make up for the error of disregarding the value of a human life,'' the bishop wrote. ''It is a tragic irony that 'pro-choice' candidates have come to support homicide -- the gravest injustice a society can tolerate -- in the name of 'social justice.' ''
 In response, a coalition of liberal lay Catholics is pushing back, criticizing the bishop's message for neglecting other aspects of ''life'' talked about in Catholic social teachings, like concern for the poor. 
 To underscore the point, a nun is collecting the signatures of prominent Catholic leaders there for a newspaper advertisement reminding those who may be wary of voting for Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, the Democratic nominee for president, that the church also considers racism a sin that threatens the dignity of life.
 ''Here in Scranton, racist attitudes often prevent us from seeing all of our fellow citizens and candidates for public office as God's children,'' says the petition, circulated by Sister Margaret P. Gannon, a professor at Marywood University.
 Scranton, the focus of a disproportionate amount of attention because it was the childhood home of Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate, has become a flashpoint in the battle playing out nationwide in weekly homilies, pastoral letters and diocesan newspapers. Scranton is also one of several heavily Catholic, working-class cities in swing states -- like Cincinnati; Cleveland; Detroit; Erie, Pa.; Pittsburgh; and St. Louis -- where a new network of liberal groups like Catholics in Alliance for the Common Good and Catholics United are trying to promote the church's social justice teachings.
 Catholics make up about a quarter of the electorate nationwide and about a third in many of the most heavily contested states in the Northeast and Midwest, an increasingly central focus of both presidential campaigns.
 The campaign of Senator John McCain of Arizona has dispatched high-profile surrogates like Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, to remind Catholic audiences of the Republican candidate's opposition to abortion. 
 For Mr. Obama, who supports the right to abortion, his campaign has trained its grass-roots organizers in the details of recent policy statements of the Bishops Conference. 
 Conservatives argue that ending legal protections for abortion outweighs almost all other issues, while liberals contend that social programs can more effectively reduce the abortion rate than trying to overturn Supreme Court precedents. They cite a 2007 statement from the United States bishops explicitly condoning a vote for a candidate who supports abortion rights if the vote was cast for other ''grave'' reasons.
 The subtleties can be slippery. The Cathedral of St. Peter in Wilmington, Del., where Mr. Biden lives, is promoting a video produced by the conservative Catholic group Fidelis that is intended to persuade Catholic voters to put opposition to abortion rights and same-sex marriage above all other issues.
 ''Many issues are at stake,'' a caption reads as the video displays a fetus and choral music swells. ''Some are more important than others.''
 Brian Burch, president of Fidelis, said the group had created the video as ''a voter guide for the 21st century.'' Many Catholic churches across the country have put it on their Web sites, and Mr. Burch said some statewide advocacy groups had been distributing it to their members.
 At the Cathedral of St. Peter, the Rev. Joseph Cocucci has displayed the video prominently on the church's Web page, and at each Mass he is urging parishioners to view it. Father Cocucci noted that the video also features smaller visual references to Catholics carrying peace signs and marching for civil rights. 
 ''The video does say life is the most important issue, but if you notice it isn't only abortion,'' he said.
 In the final push to Election Day, the intrachurch election debate is increasingly spilling into public view. 
 Last week, The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported that the head of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in Missouri had stormed out of a Mass because his priest had invoked Hitler's name in condemning Democratic support for abortion rights. The Cincinnati Enquirer published a column commending several archbishops for instructing Catholics not to vote for supporters of abortion rights but lamenting that the archbishop there had not done the same.
 In the aftermath of the 2004 election, many liberal Catholics complained that parishes had distributed millions of copies of a voter guide created by a group called Catholic Answers that highlighted five ''nonnegotiable'' issues: abortion, stem-cell research, human cloning, euthanasia and same-sex marriage. 
 In response, liberal groups like Catholics United and Catholics in Alliance quickly began preparing alternative guides emphasizing a broader spectrum of the church's social justice teachings. 
 Then the Bishops Conference, perhaps to forestall a blizzard of competing pamphlets, all but banned third-party voter guides from parishes, requiring the explicit endorsement of the presiding bishop.
 But some, including the bishop of La Crosse in Wisconsin, a swing state, have nevertheless chosen to authorize distribution of the ''nonnegotiable'' guides this year. The liberal groups are trying to distribute their material through direct mail and at meetings of lay Catholic groups.
 Alexia Kelley, executive director of Catholics in Alliance, said her organization was spending more than $250,000 on radio, print and billboard advertisements in Scranton and other heavily Catholic areas. The advertisements emphasize what Ms. Kelley described as the broader spectrum of Catholic concerns about the ''common good,'' including health care, jobs and home foreclosures. 
 Douglas W. Kmiec, a Catholic legal scholar who was a legal counsel in the administrations of President Ronald Reagan and the first President George Bush, has been telling Catholic audiences in Pennsylvania and other swing states that Mr. Obama's platform better fits Catholic social teaching, including reducing the abortion rate. 
 Mr. Kmiec, who recently published a book on the subject -- ''Can a Catholic Support Him? Asking the Big Question about Barack Obama'' -- was speaking in Scranton last week when Bishop Martino issued his letter rebutting those arguments.
 Asked how his former Republican colleagues were responding to his Obama evangelism, Mr. Kmiec acknowledged some resistance. ''Some remind me that George Washington gave orders for Benedict Arnold to be shot on sight,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bishop Joseph Martino of Scranton, Pa., has ordered every priest in the diocese to read a letter warning that voting for a supporter of abortion rights amounts to endorsing ''homicide.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRAD C. BOWER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (96%); RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); ABORTION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PETITIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RACE & RACISM (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); IRAQ WAR (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); CHILDREN (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); ERIE, PA, USA (71%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (52%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



212 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: European Leaders Vow to Fight Financial Crisis

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and KATRIN BENNHOLD

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
After days of squabbling, the leaders of Europe's largest economies vowed Saturday to work together to stop a growing financial panic, but they failed to offer a systemwide answer to a credit crisis that has forced them to bail out several banks in just the past week.
 Though they did not agree on a broad bailout along the lines of the $700 billion package that President Bush signed into law on Friday, the leaders of France, Germany, Britain and Italy pledged to prevent a bankruptcy on this side of the Atlantic like the one that brought down the Lehman Brothers investment bank in New York. 
 Sharply criticizing what they said were the American roots of what has become a global credit crisis, Europe's leaders insisted it was time for the European Union to act decisively.
 ''We are fully aware of the responsibility that weighs on our shoulders,'' said President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who hosted the gathering at the sumptuous Elysee Palace here.
 The crisis has become the biggest financial challenge for European policymakers since the introduction of the euro as a Continent-wide currency in 1999.
 Despite sharing the euro, European countries lack a common budget and uniform regulations for crossborder banks and brokerages, hampering their ability to enact a large bailout program like the one passed in Washington.
 The unusual Saturday afternoon meeting was hastily convened by Mr. Sarkozy, whose country holds the rotating presidency of the European Union. 
 Afterward, flanked by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, Mr. Sarkozy said, ''What is of the essence is that Europe should exist and respond with one voice.''
 As in the recent conflict between Georgia and Russia, Mr. Sarkozy seemed to revel in the role of being Europe's chief spokesman in this crisis, occasionally whispering to Mr. Brown and sharing a joke with Mrs. Merkel.
 Mr. Sarkozy praised the passage of what he called ''the Paulson plan'' in Washington -- a reference to Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. of the United States -- calling it a stabilizing factor for the global economy.
 Although Mr. Sarkozy said it was time ''literally to rebuild the foundations of the financial systems,'' the steps announced were more modest.
 Leaders said they would try to rewrite European accounting rules by the end of the month to limit the losses banks have to write off, an effort to match changes in ''mark-to-market'' accounting rules in the United States while keeping Europe's financial sector competitive.
 They stopped short of calling for an overarching banking regulator for Europe but proposed creating a panel of European regulators to jointly oversee large financial institutions with operations in different countries.
 More significant for the long term, the leaders declared that the European Union's strict rules on competition and fiscal responsibility should be interpreted with greater ''flexibility'' if more banks require government financial help to survive.
 They also vowed to lobby the European Investment Bank to make an extra $21.2 billion available immediately to small and midsize businesses squeezed for credit, an initiative spearheaded by Mr. Brown of Britain.
 With two British banks already nationalized and the British economy teetering on the edge of a recession, Mr. Brown adopted a forceful tone at a news conference after the meeting.
 ''Where action has to be taken, we will continue to do whatever is necessary to preserve the stability of the financial system,'' he said. ''We agreed that we must do more to coordinate our response in times of crisis and the interest of stability.''
 But plenty of differences remain. For example, the leaders did not propose a Europe-wide bailout fund akin to the American rescue package, nor did they agree on a common standard for bank deposit insurance across the European Union.
 A week ago the Irish government said it would fully guarantee bank deposits in Irish banks, reassuring consumers there but angering leaders of neighboring nations that offer much less sweeping protections for savers.
 The move prompted the British government to raise its deposit insurance to 50,000 pounds, or $88,500, from 35,000 pounds, or about $62,000, because of concerns that British savers might abandon their banks for the comparative safety of Irish banks.
 At the meeting on Saturday, the leaders seemed to take a veiled swipe at the Irish move, declaring in a joint statement, ''We will ensure that potential cross-border effects of national decisions are taken into consideration.''
 Ireland was not the only country singled out for criticism. 
 Despite praise for the American bailout plan by Mr. Sarkozy and Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's prime minister, Mr. Brown said pointedly that the crisis ''has come from America.'' 
 Mr. Berlusconi claimed that ''Europe is not facing and never faced the risks in the American system.'' Europeans, he said, ''set aside money in savings.''
 One leader after another blamed what they called ''speculative capitalism'' for a financial crisis that they said was the worst since World War II.
 ''We want a capitalism of entrepreneurs,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. ''We don't want speculators.''
 The meeting took place after a frenzied week of state intervention to rescue faltering banks in Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Britain. Several European economies are sliding into recession, with growth stalled in France, unemployment surpassing 11 percent in Spain and Mr. Brown's fiscal stewardship criticized in Britain.
 In addition to the political leaders, the meeting was attended by Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, who oversees monetary policy within the euro zone.
 Calling the Central Bank ''an anchor of stability,'' Mr. Trichet said of the 320 million Europeans in the euro zone, ''They can count on us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lining up in Paris were, from left, Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg
Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France
Jean-Claude Trichet, the European Central Bank's president
Jose Manuel Barroso, the European Commission's president
 and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE WOJAZER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EURO (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (89%); GORDON BROWN (75%); ANGELA MERKEL (75%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (67%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



213 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2934 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye to All That

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
JUST before midnight 10 days ago, as a financial whirlwind tore through Wall Street, someone filched a 75-pound bronze bust of Harry Poulakakos from the vestibule of his landmark saloon on Hanover Square in Manhattan.
 Digging into a bowl of beef stroganoff the day after the bust disappeared -- it was eventually returned anonymously -- Mr. Poulakakos recalled some of the customers who had passed through his doors since he opened his bar, Harry's, 36 years ago.
 Ivan Boesky once had a Christmas party there. Michael Milken worked over at 60 Broad. Tom Wolfe immortalized the joint in ''The Bonfire of the Vanities.'' Mr. Poulakakos says he even got to know Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former Goldman Sachs chief executive and now the Treasury secretary.
 Mr. Poulakakos, 70, has also seen his share of ups and downs on the Street, including the 1987 stock market crash, when Harry's filled up at 4 p.m. and stayed open all night. But the upheaval he's witnessing now -- much of Wall Street evaporating in a swift and brutal reordering -- is, he said, the worst in decades. 
 ''I hope this is going to be over,'' he said. ''If Wall Street is not active, nothing is active.''
 Mr. Poulakakos, rest assured, isn't planning to disappear. But the cultural tableau and the social swirl that once surrounded Harry's are certainly fading.
 ''It's the beginning of the end of the era of infatuation with the free market,'' said Steve Fraser, author of ''Wall Street: America's Dream Palace,'' and a historian. ''It's the end of the era where Wall Street carries high degrees of power and prestige. And it's the end of the era of conspicuous displays of wealth. We are entering a new chapter in our history.''
 To be sure, living large and flaunting it are unlikely to exit the American stage, infused as they are in the country's mojo. But with Congress having approved a $700 billion banking bailout, historians, economists and pundits are also busily debating the ways in which Wall Street's demise will filter into the popular culture. 
 It's an era that traces its roots back more than two decades, when suspendered titans first became fodder for books and movies. It's an era when eager young traders wearing khakis and toting laptops became dot-com millionaires overnight. And it is an era that roared into hyperdrive during the credit boom of the last decade, when M.B.A.'s and mathematicians raked in millions by trading and betting on ever more exotic securities. 
 Over all, the past quarter-century has redefined the notion of wealth. In 1982, the first year of the Forbes 400 list, it took about $159 million in today's dollars to make the list; this year, the minimum price of entry was $1.3 billion. 
 As finance jockeyed with technology as economic bellwethers, job hunters, fortune seekers and the news media hopped along for the ride. CNBC became must-see TV on trading floors and in hair salons, while people gobbled up stories about private yachts, pricey jets and lavish parties, each one bigger and grander than the last.
 Finance made enormous and important strides in these years -- new ways to parse risk, more opportunities for businesses and individuals to bankroll dreams -- but for the average onlooker the industry seemed to be one endless party.
 In 1989, tongues wagged when the 50th birthday celebration for the financier Saul Steinberg featured live models posing as Old Masters paintings. That bash was outdone last year, when Stephen A. Schwarzman, head of the private equity firm Blackstone, feted guests at a 60th birthday party boasting an estimated price tag of $5 million, video tributes and the singer Rod Stewart. 
 ''The money was big in the '80s, compared to the '50s, '60s and '70s. Now it's stunning,'' said Oliver Stone, who directed the 1987 film ''Wall Street'' and is the son of a stockbroker. ''I thought the '80s would have been an end to a cycle. I thought there would be a bust. But that's not what happened.''
 Now, with jobs, fortunes and investment banks lost, a cultural linchpin seems to be slipping away.
 ''This feels very similar, historically, to 1929 and the emotions that filled the air in the months and years that followed the crash,'' Mr. Fraser said. ''There is a sense of extraordinary shock and astonishment, which is followed by a sense of rage, outrage and anger directed at the centers of finance.''
 A WALL STREET hotshot was in a real-estate quandary, and he wanted Barbara Corcoran to help him sort things out.
 ''This is a finance guy making a ton of money and he was trying to decide whether he should sell the country home in Connecticut, the apartment here in the city or the 8,000-square-foot dream home in Oregon that he just finished,'' recalled Ms. Corcoran, who has spent years selling high-end luxury properties to New York's elite.
 Daintily pulling the shell off a soft-boiled egg at a busy restaurant, she said she had fielded call after call from anxious Wall Streeters trying to decide between signing contracts on multimillion-dollar properties or renegotiating because of the downturn. (Renegotiate, she advises.) 
 But this particular financier, whom Ms. Corcoran declined to identify, was interested in unloading property so he could time the absolute tippy-top of the real-estate market, not because his wallet had thinned. 
 ''He decided to list the country home in Connecticut,'' Ms. Corcoran said, shrugging as she bit into her egg. 
 If there has been one thing that has kept pace with the outsize personas on Wall Street, it's the gigantic paychecks they've hauled in. Since the mid-1980s, top traders, bankers, hedge fund managers and private equity gurus have reeled in millions of dollars in rotten years and tens and hundreds of millions -- a handful even making billions -- while the good times rolled.
 For instance, Steven A. Cohen, a high-profile hedge fund manager who leads SAC Capital Advisors, spent more than $14 million in 1998 for his 30-room mansion in Greenwich, Conn. Then he spiffed up the place with a basketball court, an indoor pool, an outdoor skating rink -- with its own Zamboni -- a movie theater and showpieces from the art collection on which he has spent hundreds of millions in recent years. 
 So it's unlikely that hedge fund stars like Mr. Cohen are headed for the bread lines.
 Two weeks ago, as Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy, Bank of America rescued Merrill Lynch, and regulators and bankers anxiously tried to figure out how to save the Street from itself, the world's affluent plunked down more than $200 million in a two-day auction in London, snapping up the latest works by the British artist Damien Hirst. 
 Still, some will inevitably downsize.
 ''The yacht is probably the first thing to go,'' said Jonathan Beckett, in a telephone interview from Monte Carlo as he attended the annual Monaco Yacht Show last month. Mr. Beckett, the chief executive of Burgess, a yacht broker, said that for the past eight years there have been few sellers in the market. 
 That is starting to change, said Mr. Beckett, who noted that a handful of yachts had been put up for sale, ranging in price from $10 million to $150 million.
 Even party time has shortened.
 ''In the last couple of weeks, since the bottom fell out of the market, we've seen people become more reticent to sign commitments for some expensive venues,'' said Joseph Todd St. Cyr, director of Joseph Todd Events, which plans weddings and bar and bat mitzvahs for clients whom he describes as nonshowy, sophisticated Park Avenue types.
 ''I had one client who was ready to book the Plaza for a wedding, but now he wants to know what are his other options and whether the Plaza will back down on its minimum spending requirement, which runs about $80,000 to $100,000 for a prime Saturday night date,'' Mr. St. Cyr said.
 ''Bar and bat mitzvahs in this town had become a little bit of a show. There's a little bit of outdoing the Joneses and the Cohens,'' he added, noting that typical parties, if devoid of appearances by N.F.L. superstars or the Black Eyed Peas, range from $150,000 to $400,000. 
 Even though some clients may not have been hurt in the downturn, they simply don't want to have an overly ostentatious party in this environment, he said. 
 SHOWY homes are also on the block.
 Joseph M. Gregory, Lehman's president and chief operating officer who was replaced in June, a couple of months before the firm filed for bankruptcy, listed his oceanfront, 2.5-acre, eight-bedroom Bridgehampton home for $32.5 million this summer.
 Mr. Gregory could not be reached for comment.
 While brokers say they have yet to see an avalanche of high-end sales, they do say that upheaval is present in the minds of buyers. 
 Once a hamlet for the moneyed old guard, Greenwich has found itself in recent years overrun by flashy hedge fund and private equity managers. But with the markets in flux, some high-end homes with price tags as high as $3 million to $8 million that sat unsold for six months or longer are now being offered as rentals, said Barbara Wells, a local Realtor. 
 ''I had a rental on the market for $11,500 a month. On Monday, we got an offer for $8,500, which we countered with $9,500. They came back with $8,000,'' she said. ''I told them they were going the wrong way but they said, because of what was happening in the financial markets, this is our new offer. And guess what? The owner accepted it.''
 Also shocking, she said, is the fact that some of the new homes offered for rent were houses built on spec.
 In all likelihood, the real estate market could be frozen for the next 6 to 18 months or so as buyers and sellers struggle to reach agreement on prices, Ms. Corcoran said.
 ''The buyers have jumped to the sidelines and the sellers refuse to budge on their prices, completely in a state of disbelief that anything has changed,'' she said.
 Job losses and lower bonuses are likely to hurt sales of apartments in New York, particularly starter abodes like studios, one bedrooms and basic two bedrooms. 
 ''The lowest-priced properties are always hit hardest first and recover last,'' said Ms. Corcoran, who estimates that 20 to 25 percent of apartment buyers in the city work on Wall Street. ''The rich have more wiggle room.''
 Despite the malaise, she says she sees some hope. 
 ''This feels like 1987,'' after the stock market crashed, she declared. ''It's not even close to '73 or '74, when people used to feel sorry for you if you told them you lived in New York City.'' 
 That said, Ms. Corcoran said that data she once compiled showed that apartment prices in New York had peaked in 1988, one year after the '87 crash, and taken 11 years to recover.
 Of course, there's another much-watched barometer of Wall Street buoyancy: traffic at some of the city's high-end strip clubs. 
 During the heyday of the Wall Street boom in the 1990s, Lincoln Town Cars, Rolls-Royces and Bentleys were often found idling outside places like Scores. Inside, according to people who were present at the time, groups of brokers routinely dropped $50,000 and even $100,000 in a single night.
 In the ''presidential suite'' at Scores, with its own wine steward who delivered $3,200 bottles of Champagne, the tabs grew quickly.
 While dancers may not receive gifts like the ones once lavished upon them -- say, a $10,000 line of credit at Bloomingdale's or a pair of $125,000 earrings -- the clubs still appear to be filled with brokers, bankers and foreign businessmen.
 On a recent night at Rick's Cabaret in New York, men in suits and ties were in full force. At around 10 p.m. -- early for a strip club -- 10 of the club's 11 private rooms on the second floor were booked.
 ''Men will never grow tired of the high-class strip-club experience,'' said Lonnie Hanover, a spokesman for Rick's Cabaret International in New York. Rick's, which is publicly traded on the Nasdaq and has 19 clubs across the country, even plans to expand. 
 ''When times are tough, there is no better form of escapism than a night at a gentlemen's club,'' he added.
 IN the early 1980s, Mr. Stone (who gave the world Gordon Gekko and the ''Greed is good'' mantra in ''Wall Street'') spent time in Miami doing research for his movie ''Scarface'' (with its cocaine-snorting gangster Tony Montana). 
 When he returned to New York he noticed a shift in the city's culture of high finance, a world he was familiar with from his childhood. While Wall Streeters weren't packing guns, other similarities startled him. ''What shocked me was I met all these guys who at a young age were making millions and they were acting like these guys in Miami,'' Mr. Stone recalled. ''There's not much difference between Gordon Gekko and Tony Montana.'' 
 ''Money was worshiped and continues to be worshiped,'' Mr. Stone added. ''Maybe that will change now.''
 Adoration of riches is hardly new, however. In the mid- to late 19th century, the Gilded Age -- a term Mark Twain coined in 1873 -- offered equally ostentatious displays of wealth and a broadening gulf between rich and poor.
 ''In the Gilded Age, they built great, enormous palazzos in Newport that they lived in for six weeks a year,'' said the historian John Steele Gordon, whose book, ''An Empire of Wealth,'' chronicles that era. ''During the last 25 years, it's certainly been a gilded age in the sense that enormous fortunes have been built up in an unprecedented way.'' 
 Part of Wall Street's allure for the young and ambitious was that anyone -- regardless of education or breeding -- could hit it big and live like a kingpin.
 Consider, for instance, Jordan Belfort. 
 In 1987, Mr. Belfort, then a down-on-his-luck former meat-and-seafood distributor, was standing outside an apartment building in Bayside, Queens, when a childhood acquaintance who worked on Wall Street pulled up in a Ferrari. 
 ''This was a guy who you never would have expected would be making this kind of money,'' Mr. Belfort recalled in a recent telephone interview. ''I was broke, broke, broke, down to my last $100.'' 
 Mr. Belfort hit the Street in the late 1980s, and he recounted his adventure last year in a book called ''The Wolf of Wall Street,'' which he published after serving almost two years in prison for securities fraud and stock manipulation. He recently finished a second installment, ''Catching the Wolf of Wall Street,'' to be released in February.
 When he first struck it rich, he followed a well-trodden path for Wall Street upstarts.
 ''First thing I did was go out and buy a Jaguar,'' he said. ''Step One is you get the car. Step Two, you get a great watch. Then great restaurants, and then maybe a place in the Hamptons -- a summer share with another broker.''
 Whatever the Street's excesses, it did offer individuals and institutions reliable, sophisticated and often efficient ways to trade and invest, helping to spread some of the wealth.
 Markets were democratized as individuals who had never before bought a stock or bond dabbled in investing, even if that meant simply plunking down money in a mutual fund, or participating in their company 401(k) plans.
 New technologies and the ability to trade stocks cheaply opened the financial doors to more people. As home prices rose, meanwhile, homeowners were enticed to tap into their new wealth through home equity loans and then used that money to pay for their own version of a lavish lifestyle. 
 DESPITE these gains in the middle class, though, the truly wealthy have pulled away from the pack. Not since the late 1920s, just before the 1929 market crash, has there been such a concentration of income among individuals and families in very upper reaches of the income spectrum, according to researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, and the Paris School of Economics. 
 Some say that anger over the yawning wealth divide found traction in the highly charged and polarizing debate in Congress over the bailout bill. 
 Mr. Fraser, the historian, says that anger is informed by the de-industrialization of the American economy in recent decades. Factory closings and the loss of manufacturing jobs that paid decent, middle-class wages coincided with the heady expansion of the financial sector, where compensation soared. 
 ''That means that people in Ohio and Pennsylvania have not been living as high on the hog as those on Wall Street,'' Mr. Fraser said. ''There's a real sense of anger at that unfairness.''
 Even if the current crisis leads to a prolonged slowdown, people may still flock to finance jobs. But they may have to recalibrate their expectations.
 ''There's no question that people on Wall Street are going to make less money,'' said Jonathan A. Knee, a Columbia Business School professor and author of ''The Accidental Investment Banker.''
 Like any cultural force concerned about its legacy, the financial world has a custodian of its past. On Wall Street, it can be found at the Museum of American Financial History, just a block from the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Located in a grand space once occupied by the Bank of New York, it features a long timeline charting major market events. The last event it notes is the popping of the dot-com bubble earlier this decade.
 Robert E. Wright, a financial historian at New York University who is a curator of the museum, said that there were still many unknowns about how recent events would be recalled. 
 ''If the economic system shuts down and we go in for a deep recession, it probably is the end of an era,'' he said.
 Hedging its bets, the museum has already started collecting mementos from the current crisis to post on its wall. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harry Poulakakos at his restaurant, which has been part of the Wall Street culture now being transformed by the financial crisis. ''If Wall Street is not active,'' he warned, ''nothing is active.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''First thing I did was go out and buy a Jaguar,'' said Jordan Belfort of his start on Wall Street. He later went to prison. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE FORNABAIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Limos lined up at the Lehman Brothers headquarters, pre-bankruptcy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(BU10)
The New York Stock Exchange on New Year's Eve, 1971, in the innocent days before the Gordon Gekko's arrived, before the 1987 crash and before the credit crisis tarnished the second Gilded Age. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL T. GOSSETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Michael R. Milken, left, in 1978, and Ivan F. Boesky, right, in 1987. The two men, both of whom went to prison, became symbols of Wall Street's excesses. (PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, BY NEAL BOENZI/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Greenwich, Conn., mansion of Steven A. Cohen. After buying it in 1998, he added amenities befitting a hedge fund king, like an outdoor skating rink. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET DURRANS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CHRISTMAS (75%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); WRITERS (63%); EXECUTIVES (54%); BANK FAILURES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (78%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); STEVEN A COHEN (58%); STEVEN COHEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



214 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Business Best Sellers

 BODY:
HARDCOVER
 HOT, FLAT, AND CROWDED by Thomas L. Friedman (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.95). How a green revolution can renew America, by the New York Times columnist. 
 2 -- THE FIRST BILLION IS THE HARDEST by T. Boone Pickens (Crown Business, $26.95). An account of Mr. Pickens's career and his views about energy policy.
 3 1 THE 4-HOUR WORKWEEK by Timothy Ferriss (Crown, $19.95). Life isn't all about work. ()
 4 3 NOW, DISCOVER YOUR STRENGTHS by Marcus Buckingham and Donald O. Clifton (Free Press, $30). How to identify and develop your talents and those of your employees. ()
 5 -- BAD MONEY by Kevin Phillips (Viking, $25.95). The financial sector's power in the American economy, aided by Washington's ruinous faith in the efficiency of markets.
 6 2 THE TOTAL MONEY MAKEOVER by Dave Ramsey (Thomas Nelson, $24.99). Fiscal fitness for families, by the radio show host. ()
 7 8 SIX DISCIPLINES EXECUTION REVOLUTION by Gary Harpst (Six Disciplines, $12.95). Strategies for small and midsize businesses. ()
 8* 4 DEBT CURES ''THEY'' DON'T WANT YOU TO KNOW ABOUT by Kevin Trudeau (Equity, $25.95). How consumers can fight the credit industry by changing financial habits. ()
 9 -- THE GONE FISHIN' PORTFOLIO by Alexander Green (Wiley, $27.95). A guide to hands-off investing for the long term. ()
 10 7 YES! by Noah J. Goldstein, Steve J. Martin and Robert B. Cialdini (Free Press, $25). Ways to improve your powers of persuasion. ()
 Paperback
 1 8 THE WORLD IS FLAT by Thomas L. Friedman (Picador, $16). The New York Times columnist analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.
 2 3 THE SEVEN HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE by Stephen R. Covey (Free Press, $15.95). A new edition of the author's principles for success. ()
 3 2 THE TIPPING POINT by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95). How and why certain products and ideas become fads.
 4 6 THE SHOCK DOCTRINE by Naomi Klein (Picador, $16). Putting economic policies into effect after moments of ''shock and awe.''
 5* 4 GETTING THINGS DONE by David Allen (Penguin, $15). Methods for reducing stress and increasing performance. ()

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); WORK WEEK (71%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: RENEW AMERICA (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (89%); AL GREEN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



215 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: A Cappella Dreaming: 10 Voices, One Shot

BYLINE: By MICKEY RAPKIN

 BODY:
TEN years ago, the founding members of Straight No Chaser -- an undergraduate a cappella group from Indiana University -- performed at Carnegie Hall. They sang the national anthem at a Chicago Cubs game. They took road trips, ensnared female fans and created a lasting tradition on campus. And then they graduated.
Save for the odd wedding or college reunion, these men had not sung together with any regularity since. Until 2008, when Craig Kallman, the chairman and chief executive of Atlantic Records, offered the 10-man group a five-album record deal.
This may be the year's most unlikely major-label story. 
David Roberts, 31, a project manager for a Midtown bank, was sitting in his cubicle in January when he got the call. Michael Itkoff, also 31, a sales rep for a medical-device company, was at home in Atlanta. Jerome Collins, 32, was in Hong Kong starring as Simba in a theme-park production of ''The Lion King.''
''We thought it was a joke,'' Mr. Itkoff said. ''But Atlantic flew us to New York and put us up at the Dream hotel. There was a fruit plate in my hotel room. They were talking about a tour with Josh Groban or Michael Buble. I thought, Are you kidding me?''
Mr. Kallman -- like nearly eight million others -- discovered Straight No Chaser on YouTube in December, through a 1998 video of the group performing an unlikely riff on ''The 12 Days of Christmas'' (a riff that incorporated snippets of everything from ''I Have a Little Dreidel'' to Toto's ''Africa''). Randy Stine, an original member, had uploaded the clip strictly for the group's own amusement, but it quickly went viral.
''We thought the attention would die down after the New Year,'' said the group's founder, Dan Ponce, 31, now a reporter for ABC News in Chicago.
But Mr. Kallman smelled a potential holiday crossover hit in the vein of the Trans-Siberian Orchestra, a metal band famous for playing Christmas music in large, sold-out arenas. That band has sold more than five million albums, and last year it played a 90-city tour that grossed more than $45 million.
''We're at a time when we're entertained by air-guitar video games and reality competitions about hairstyling, dressmaking and grocery bagging,'' Mr. Kallman said in a telephone interview. ''Straight No Chaser was this organic YouTube sensation. The idea is to develop an act with real resonance for the holiday season and build a brand in the a cappella arena.''
Major labels have flirted with a cappella groups before. R&B acts like the Persuasions had been signed to the majors in the 1970s before moving to smaller labels in recent years. In 2005, Tonic Sol-fa, an a cappella quartet out of Minneapolis, was briefly signed to Vivaton Records (a division of Sony), but the label folded a week before the group's album hit shelves. At the height of the 1990s boy-band boom, an a cappella group called 4:2:Five (featuring a young Scott Porter of NBC's ''Friday Night Lights'') met with Sony, but when the executives suggested adding backing tracks and choreography, the members walked.
That kind of tinkering is perhaps understandable. While there are more than 1,200 collegiate a cappella groups in the United States, according to estimates from the Contemporary a Cappella Society of America, mainstream attitudes toward the genre are not kind. A cappella is regularly mocked on screen, notably on the NBC comedy ''The Office'' and recently in the Will Ferrell film ''Step Brothers.'' Still, Mr. Kallman was not deterred. He did not want to hide that these men were an a cappella group. Rather, he hoped to embrace it.
''Group harmony is in the air,'' he said. '' 'Jersey Boys' is a worldwide phenomenon. The 'Mamma Mia!' soundtrack is Number 1.'' With Straight No Chaser, Atlantic is aiming for the mass audience that made Mr. Groban's ''Noel'' the top-selling album of 2007.
Perhaps the idea of a major-label a cappella Christmas hit isn't so far-fetched. ''Once in a while a fresh Christmas album breaks through and has a chance of becoming a perennial seller,'' said Jay Landers, senior vice president of A&R at Columbia Records, an Atlantic competitor. ''Josh Groban and Mannheim Steamroller will continue to sell for years. A cappella might be considered a niche signing, but if the repertoire is fresh and accessible, then it could work.''
And so a Straight No Chaser album, ''Holiday Spirits,'' is due out Oct. 28 on Atlantic's Atco imprint. The album is a collection of 12 Christmas classics (and two original holiday tunes), including a live version of ''The 12 Days of Christmas.'' (Richard Gregory, 76, now a retired music teacher in Massachusetts, wrote the original comic arrangement of the traditional carol while serving in the Navy in the 1950s. It became a staple of the Princeton Nassoons, and Straight No Chaser added its own funny flavor.)
There may even be a reality show on the horizon. Mark Burnett of the ''Survivor'' franchise, Jesse Ignjatovic, the executive producer of this year's MTV Video Music Awards, and Atlantic are shopping a competition show featuring Straight No Chaser that is tentatively titled ''A Cappella Nation.''
''Look at what's working in the reality space -- family-friendly entertainment,'' Mr. Burnett said. ''There's no way this is not a big hit. It's great music. It's fun for the whole family.''
The Straight No Chaser ''12 Days of Christmas'' video had a certain kitsch appeal, what with 10 men harmonizing to ''I Have a Little Dreidel.'' But the eight million people who clicked on it were also likely responding to the genuine, unironic enjoyment plastered across the members' faces; the video begged to be forwarded.
But the trick was capturing that energy on disc. Straight No Chaser -- the name was inspired by the Thelonious Monk composition -- began album rehearsals in March, and the first day was surreal. ''It was like we were right back in the senior year of college, and we were going over music for a show at a sorority house,'' Mr. Itkoff said. ''It was like no time had passed.''
Except time had passed -- nearly a decade. Mr. Itkoff, the medical-device salesman, was married now and had to convince his wife that frequent trips to New York (and whatever might come next) would not upend their life in Atlanta. They'd recently had a baby, and his wife had stopped working. ''Her biggest worry was that I'd leave her for months at a time, with no income and a child.''
For a similar reason, one original member, Patrick Hachey -- a high school music teacher in New Jersey with three kids and a wife -- declined to join the reunion. (Another original member, who had fallen out with others in the group, was not asked to join, and the slots were filled with two younger alumni. The group has had several lineups at Indiana University.)
Most of the album was recorded over two weeks in July in Bloomington, Ind. Steve Lunt of Atlantic, an industry A&R veteran who has worked with Britney Spears and 'N Sync, was brought on to produce.
Though they were recording for a major label, the budget was conservative. Not counting travel and other expenses, they spent roughly $20,000 on recording.
Mr. Lunt flew to Bloomington twice to put his stamp on the project. ''Collegiate a cappella is intentionally goofy and tongue-in-cheek and ironic,'' he said. ''But there's a thin line between goofy and stupid, and goofy and funny.''
The members of Straight No Chaser understand Mr. Lunt's concern, and they are in on the joke -- to a point. ''It's great to see a cappella lampooned on shows like '30 Rock,' '' Mr. Stine said. ''We laugh at a cappella along with everyone else. Clearly it doesn't have the coolest reputation. Maybe we can change that.''
Still, Mr. Lunt refers to the finished project as ''Beach Boyz II Men,'' a comment that highlights the inherent marketing challenge. ''This is a 10-piece, slightly overgrown college vocal band,'' he said. ''We're trying to catch lightning in a bottle. We're swimming upstream. There are a lot of mixed metaphors here. But the genuine enthusiasm you feel from these guys is infectious.''
Despite the excitement of a major-label deal, most of the group members have kept quiet about it until now. ''We had to protect our jobs,'' Mr. Itkoff said. ''We're not 19 anymore. But it was like leading a double life.''
With the album's release approaching, it is hard for the members not to daydream. To that end, Mr. Stine recently quit his day job, in part because he couldn't get two weeks off to record the album but also because he hopes the project will have legs. Mr. Roberts, the Manhattan finance guy, is more conservative. ''The economics in the group are tough,'' he said. ''There are 10 mouths to feed here, and any money will be split 10 ways.''
Mr. Kallman of Atlantic described the project as ''low risk.'' He signed Straight No Chaser to what is called a 360-degree deal, meaning Atlantic will share in potential revenue from merchandise, concert tours, even ring tones. The group was given a very small advance (basically just enough money to cover recording costs), and it will take a ''standard cut of net sales,'' according to Mr. Ponce. ''We're happy with the deal.''
There's a distinct possibility, all involved agree, that this excitement could disappear as suddenly as it arrived. ''We're talking about a cappella,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''Let's be honest.''
But if the scene in Bloomington is any indication, perhaps there is hope for an a cappella Christmas hit. On one of the last nights of recording, the boys were out celebrating, playing a drinking game called Sink the Bismarck at an old haunt. There was a bachelorette party a few tables over. A member of Straight No Chaser was making small talk when one of the women -- an Indiana University alumnus -- interrupted him.
''Are you the original members of Straight No Chaser?'' she asked. And then she screamed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The a cappella group Straight No Chaser has taken a not-so-straight path to a five-album recording contract. The members, now mostly in their 30s, began singing in the act while undergraduates at Indiana University. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW ZAEH) (pg.AR1)
Members of the a cappella group Straight No Chaser, top: from left, Walter Chase, David Roberts, Michael Luginbill, Jerome Collins, Michael Itkoff, Dan Ponce, Randy Stine, Ryan Ahlwardt, Charlie Mechling and Steve Morgan. Above, the original members singing in 1998 at a Chicago Cubs game. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW ZAEH
 LAURA SEGERT) (pg.AR21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (68%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (65%); REALITY TELEVISION (61%); MUSIC GENRES (60%); MEDICAL DEVICES (53%); BRANDING (50%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (91%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: DAVID A ROBERTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFRICA (57%); HONG KONG (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2011



216 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: Pitbull Palin Mauls McCain

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
SARAH PALIN'S post-Couric/Fey comeback at last week's vice presidential debate was a turning point in the campaign. But if she ''won,'' as her indulgent partisans and press claque would have it, the loser was not Joe Biden. It was her running mate. With a month to go, the 2008 election is now an Obama-Palin race -- about ''the future,'' as Palin kept saying Thursday night -- and the only person who doesn't seem to know it is Mr. Past, poor old John McCain.
 To understand the meaning of Palin's ''victory,'' it must be seen in the context of two ominous developments that directly preceded it. Just hours before the debate began, the McCain campaign pulled out of Michigan. That state is ground zero for the collapsed Main Street economy and for so-called Reagan Democrats, those white working-class voters who keep being told by the right that Barack Obama is a Muslim who hung with bomb-throwing radicals during his childhood in the late 1960s. 
 McCain surrendered Michigan despite having outspent his opponent on television advertising and despite Obama's twin local handicaps, an unpopular Democratic governor and a felonious, now former, black Democratic Detroit mayor. If McCain can't make it there, can he make it anywhere in the Rust Belt? 
 Not without an economic message. McCain's most persistent attempt, his self-righteous crusade against earmarks, collapsed with his poll numbers. Next to a $700 billion bailout package, his incessant promise to eliminate all Washington pork -- by comparison, a puny grand total of $16.5 billion in the 2008 federal budget -- doesn't bring home the bacon. Nor can McCain reconcile his I-will-veto-government-waste mantra with his support, however tardy, of the bailout bill. That bill's $150 billion in fresh pork includes a boondoggle inserted by the Congressman Don Young, an Alaskan Republican no less.
 The second bit of predebate news, percolating under the radar, involved the still-unanswered questions about McCain's health. Back in May, you will recall, the McCain campaign allowed a select group of 20 reporters to spend a mere three hours examining (but not photocopying) 1,173 pages of the candidate's health records on the Friday of Memorial Day weekend. Conspicuously uninvited was Lawrence Altman, a doctor who covers medicine for The New York Times. Altman instead canvassed melanoma experts to evaluate the sketchy data that did emerge. They found the information too ''unclear'' to determine McCain's cancer prognosis. 
 There was, however, at least one doctor-journalist among those 20 reporters in May, the CNN correspondent Sanjay Gupta. At the time, Gupta told Katie Couric on CBS that the medical records were ''pretty comprehensive'' and wrote on his CNN blog that he was ''pretty convinced there was no 'smoking gun' about the senator's health.'' (Physical health, that is; Gupta wrote there was hardly any information on McCain's mental health.)
 That was then. Now McCain is looking increasingly shaky, whether he's repeating his ''Miss Congeniality'' joke twice in the same debate or speaking from notecards even when reciting a line for (literally) the 17th time (''The fundamentals of our economy are strong'') or repeatedly confusing proper nouns that begin with S (Sunni, Shia, Sudan, Somalia, Spain). McCain's ''dismaying temperament,'' as George Will labeled it, only thickens the concerns. His kamikaze mission into Washington during the bailout crisis seemed crazed. His seething, hostile debate countenance -- a replay of Al Gore's sarcastic sighing in 2000 -- didn't make the deferential Obama look weak (as many Democrats feared) but elevated him into looking like the sole presidential grown-up. 
 Though CNN and MSNBC wouldn't run a political ad with doctors questioning McCain's medical status, Gupta revisited the issue in an interview published last Tuesday by The Huffington Post. While maintaining a pretty upbeat take on the candidate's health, the doctor-journalist told the reporter Sam Stein that he couldn't vouch ''by any means'' for the completeness of the records the campaign showed him four months ago. ''The pages weren't numbered,'' Gupta said, ''so I had no way of knowing what was missing.'' At least in Watergate we knew that the gap on Rose Mary Woods's tape ran 18 and a half minutes. 
 It's against this backdrop that Palin's public pronouncements, culminating with her debate performance, have been so striking. The standard take has it that she's either speaking utter ignorant gibberish (as to Couric) or reciting highly polished, campaign-written sound bites that she's memorized (as at the convention and the debate). But there's a steady unnerving undertone to Palin's utterances, a consistent message of hubristic self-confidence and hyper-ambition. She wants to be president, she thinks she can be president, she thinks she will be president. And perhaps soon. She often sounds like someone who sees herself as half-a-heartbeat away from the presidency. Or who is seen that way by her own camp, the hard-right G.O.P. base that never liked McCain anyway and views him as, at best, a White House place holder.
 This was first apparent when Palin extolled a ''small town'' vice president as a hero in her convention speech -- and cited not one of the many Republican vice presidents who fit that bill but, bizarrely, Harry Truman, a Democrat who succeeded a president who died in office. A few weeks later came Charlie Gibson's question about whether she thought she was ''experienced enough'' and ''ready'' when McCain invited her to join his ticket. Palin replied that she didn't ''hesitate'' and didn't ''even blink'' -- a response that seemed jarring for its lack of any human modesty, even false modesty. 
 In the last of her Couric interview installments on Thursday, Palin was asked which vice president had most impressed her, and after paying tribute to Geraldine Ferraro, she chose ''George Bush Sr.'' Her criterion: she most admires vice presidents ''who have gone on to the presidency.'' Hours later, at the debate, she offered a discordant contrast to Biden when asked by Gwen Ifill how they would each govern ''if the worst happened'' and the president died in office. After Biden spoke of somber continuity, Palin was weirdly flip and chipper, eager to say that as a ''maverick'' she'd go her own way. 
 But the debate's most telling passage arrived when Biden welled up in recounting his days as a single father after his first wife and one of his children were killed in a car crash. Palin's perky response -- she immediately started selling McCain as a ''consummate maverick'' again -- was as emotionally disconnected as Michael Dukakis's notoriously cerebral answer to the hypothetical 1988 debate question about his wife being ''raped and murdered.'' If, as some feel, Obama is cool, Palin is ice cold. She didn't even acknowledge Biden's devastating personal history. 
 After the debate, Republicans who had been bailing on Palin rushed back to the fold. They know her relentless ambition is the only hope for saving a ticket headed by a warrior who is out of juice and out of ideas. So what if she is preposterously unprepared to run the country in the midst of its greatest economic crisis in 70 years? She looks and sounds like a winner.
 You can understand why they believe that. She has more testosterone than anyone else at the top of her party. McCain and his surrogates are forever blaming their travails on others, wailing about supposed sexist and journalistic biases around the clock. McCain even canceled an interview with Larry King, for heaven's sake, in a fit of pique at a CNN anchor, Campbell Brown. 
 We are not a nation of whiners, as Phil Gramm would have it, but the G.O.P. is now the party of whiners. That rebranding became official when Republican House leaders moaned that a routine partisan speech by Nancy Pelosi had turned their members against the bailout bill. As the stock market fell nearly 778 points, Barney Frank taunted his G.O.P. peers with pitch-perfect mockery: ''Somebody hurt my feelings, so I will punish the country!''
 Talk about the world coming full circle. This is the same Democrat who had been slurred as ''Barney Fag'' in the mid-1990s by Dick Armey, a House leader of the government-bashing Gingrich revolution that helped lower us into this debacle. Now Frank was ridiculing the House G.O.P. as a bunch of sulking teenage girls. His wisecrack stung -- and stuck.
 Palin is an antidote to the whiny Republican image that Frank nailed. Alaska's self-styled embodiment of Joe Sixpack is not a sulker, but a pistol-packing fighter. That's why she draws the crowds and (as she puts it) ''energy'' that otherwise elude the angry McCain. But she is still the candidate for vice president, not president. Americans do not vote for vice president.
 So how can a desperate G.O.P. save itself? As McCain continues to fade into incoherence and irrelevance, the last hope is that he'll come up with some new game-changing stunt to match his initial pick of Palin or his ill-fated campaign ''suspension.'' Until Thursday night, more than a few Republicans were fantasizing that his final Hail Mary pass would be to ditch Palin so she can ''spend more time'' with her ever-growing family. But the debate reminded Republicans once again that it's Palin, not McCain, who is their last hope for victory. 
 You have to wonder how long it will be before they plead with him to think of his health, get out of the way and pull the ultimate stunt of flipping the ticket. Palin, we can be certain, wouldn't even blink.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); BUDGETS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); PORK (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); CANCER (63%); SKIN CANCER (62%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); WRITERS (60%); MEDICAL RECORDS (60%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); KATIE COURIC (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%); DON YOUNG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



217 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2808 words

HEADLINE: Pressured to Take More Risk, Fannie Reached Tipping Point

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
''Almost no one expected what was coming. It's not fair to blame us for not predicting the unthinkable.''-- Daniel H. Mudd, former chief executive, Fannie Mae
 When the mortgage giant Fannie Mae recruited Daniel H. Mudd, he told a friend he wanted to work for an altruistic business. Already a decorated marine and a successful executive, he wanted to be a role model to his four children -- just as his father, the television journalist Roger Mudd, had been to him.
 Fannie, a government-sponsored company, had long helped Americans get cheaper home loans by serving as a powerful middleman, buying mortgages from lenders and banks and then holding or reselling them to Wall Street investors. This allowed banks to make even more loans -- expanding the pool of homeowners and permitting Fannie to ring up handsome profits along the way. 
 But by the time Mr. Mudd became Fannie's chief executive in 2004, his company was under siege. Competitors were snatching lucrative parts of its business. Congress was demanding that Mr. Mudd help steer more loans to low-income borrowers. Lenders were threatening to sell directly to Wall Street unless Fannie bought a bigger chunk of their riskiest loans. 
 So Mr. Mudd made a fateful choice. Disregarding warnings from his managers that lenders were making too many loans that would never be repaid, he steered Fannie into more treacherous corners of the mortgage market, according to executives. 
 For a time, that decision proved profitable. In the end, it nearly destroyed the company and threatened to drag down the housing market and the economy.
 Dozens of interviews, most from people who requested anonymity to avoid legal repercussions, offer an inside account of the critical juncture when Fannie Mae's new chief executive, under pressure from Wall Street firms, Congress and company shareholders, took additional risks that pushed his company, and, in turn, a large part of the nation's financial health, to the brink. 
 Between 2005 and 2008, Fannie purchased or guaranteed at least $270 billion in loans to risky borrowers -- more than three times as much as in all its earlier years combined, according to company filings and industry data. 
 ''We didn't really know what we were buying,'' said Marc Gott, a former director in Fannie's loan servicing department. ''This system was designed for plain vanilla loans, and we were trying to push chocolate sundaes through the gears.''
 Last month, the White House was forced to orchestrate a $200 billion rescue of Fannie and its corporate cousin, Freddie Mac. On Sept. 26, the companies disclosed that federal prosecutors and the Securities and Exchange Commission were investigating potential accounting and governance problems.
 Mr. Mudd said in an interview that he responded as best he could given the company's challenges, and worked to balance risks prudently.
 ''Fannie Mae faced the danger that the market would pass us by,'' he said. ''We were afraid that lenders would be selling products we weren't buying and Congress would feel like we weren't fulfilling our mission. The market was changing, and it's our job to buy loans, so we had to change as well.''
 Dealing With Risk
 When Mr. Mudd arrived at Fannie eight years ago, it was beginning a dramatic expansion that, at its peak, had it buying 40 percent of all domestic mortgages. 
 Just two decades earlier, Fannie had been on the brink of bankruptcy. But chief executives like Franklin D. Raines and the chief financial officer J. Timothy Howard built it into a financial juggernaut by aiming at new markets.
 Fannie never actually made loans. It was essentially a mortgage insurance company, buying mortgages, keeping some but reselling most to investors and, for a fee, promising to pay off a loan if the borrower defaulted. The only real danger was that the company might guarantee questionable mortgages and lose out when large numbers of borrowers walked away from their obligations. 
 So Fannie constructed a vast network of computer programs and mathematical formulas that analyzed its millions of daily transactions and ranked borrowers according to their risk.
 Those computer programs seemingly turned Fannie into a divining rod, capable of separating pools of similar-seeming borrowers into safe and risky bets. The riskier the loan, the more Fannie charged to handle it. In theory, those high fees would offset any losses. 
 With that self-assurance, the company announced in 2000 that it would buy $2 trillion in loans from low-income, minority and risky borrowers by 2010. 
 All this helped supercharge Fannie's stock price and rewarded top executives with tens of millions of dollars. Mr. Raines received about $90 million between 1998 and 2004, while Mr. Howard was paid about $30.8 million, according to regulators. Mr. Mudd collected more than $10 million in his first four years at Fannie. 
 Whenever competitors asked Congress to rein in the company, lawmakers were besieged with letters and phone calls from angry constituents, some orchestrated by Fannie itself. One automated phone call warned voters: ''Your congressman is trying to make mortgages more expensive. Ask him why he opposes the American dream of home ownership.''
 The ripple effect of Fannie's plunge into riskier lending was profound. Fannie's stamp of approval made shunned borrowers and complex loans more acceptable to other lenders, particularly small and less sophisticated banks. 
 Between 2001 and 2004, the overall subprime mortgage market -- loans to the riskiest borrowers -- grew from $160 billion to $540 billion, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade publication. Communities were inundated with billboards and fliers from subprime companies offering to help almost anyone buy a home.
 Within a few years of Mr. Mudd's arrival, Fannie was the most powerful mortgage company on earth. 
 Then it began to crumble.
 Regulators, spurred by the revelation of a wide-ranging accounting fraud at Freddie, began scrutinizing Fannie's books. In 2004 they accused Fannie of fraudulently concealing expenses to make its profits look bigger. 
 Mr. Howard and Mr. Raines resigned. Mr. Mudd was quickly promoted to the top spot. 
 But the company he inherited was becoming a shadow of its former self.
 'You Need Us'
 Shortly after he became chief executive, Mr. Mudd traveled to the California offices of Angelo R. Mozilo, the head of Countrywide Financial, then the nation's largest mortgage lender. Fannie had a longstanding and lucrative relationship with Countrywide, which sold more loans to Fannie than anyone else. 
 But at that meeting, Mr. Mozilo, a butcher's son who had almost single-handedly built Countrywide into a financial powerhouse, threatened to upend their partnership unless Fannie started buying Countrywide's riskier loans.
 Mr. Mozilo, who did not return telephone calls seeking comment, told Mr. Mudd that Countrywide had other options. For example, Wall Street had recently jumped into the market for risky mortgages. Firms like Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs had started bundling home loans and selling them to investors -- bypassing Fannie and dealing with Countrywide directly. 
 ''You're becoming irrelevant,'' Mr. Mozilo told Mr. Mudd, according to two people with knowledge of the meeting who requested anonymity because the talks were confidential. In the previous year, Fannie had already lost 56 percent of its loan-reselling business to Wall Street and other competitors.
 ''You need us more than we need you,'' Mr. Mozilo said, ''and if you don't take these loans, you'll find you can lose much more.'' 
 Then Mr. Mozilo offered everyone a breath mint. 
 Investors were also pressuring Mr. Mudd to take greater risks. 
 On one occasion, a hedge fund manager telephoned a senior Fannie executive to complain that the company was not taking enough gambles in chasing profits. 
 ''Are you stupid or blind?'' the investor roared, according to someone who heard the call, but requested anonymity. ''Your job is to make me money!''
 Capitol Hill bore down on Mr. Mudd as well. The same year he took the top position, regulators sharply increased Fannie's affordable-housing goals. Democratic lawmakers demanded that the company buy more loans that had been made to low-income and minority homebuyers.
 ''When homes are doubling in price in every six years and incomes are increasing by a mere one percent per year, Fannie's mission is of paramount importance,'' Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat, lectured Mr. Mudd at a Congressional hearing in 2006. ''In fact, Fannie and Freddie can do more, a lot more.''
 But Fannie's computer systems could not fully analyze many of the risky loans that customers, investors and lawmakers wanted Mr. Mudd to buy. Many of them -- like balloon-rate mortgages or mortgages that did not require paperwork -- were so new that dangerous bets could not be identified, according to company executives.
 Even so, Fannie began buying huge numbers of riskier loans. 
 In one meeting, according to two people present, Mr. Mudd told employees to ''get aggressive on risk-taking, or get out of the company.''
 In the interview, Mr. Mudd said he did not recall that conversation and that he always stressed taking only prudent risks. 
 Employees, however, say they got a different message. 
 ''Everybody understood that we were now buying loans that we would have previously rejected, and that the models were telling us that we were charging way too little,'' said a former senior Fannie executive. ''But our mandate was to stay relevant and to serve low-income borrowers. So that's what we did.''
 Between 2005 and 2007, the company's acquisitions of mortgages with down payments of less than 10 percent almost tripled. As the market for risky loans soared to $1 trillion, Fannie expanded in white-hot real estate areas like California and Florida.
 For two years, Mr. Mudd operated without a permanent chief risk officer to guard against unhealthy hazards. When Enrico Dallavecchia was hired for that position in 2006, he told Mr. Mudd that the company should be charging more to handle risky loans. 
 In the following months to come, Mr. Dallavecchia warned that some markets were becoming overheated and argued that a housing bubble had formed, according to a person with knowledge of the conversations. But many of the warnings were rebuffed.
 Mr. Mudd told Mr. Dallavecchia that the market, shareholders and Congress all thought the companies should be taking more risks, not fewer, according to a person who observed the conversation. ''Who am I supposed to fight with first?'' Mr. Mudd asked.
 In the interview, Mr. Mudd said he never made those comments. Mr. Dallavecchia was among those whom Mr. Mudd forced out of the company during a reorganization in August.
 Mr. Mudd added that it was almost impossible during most of his tenure to see trouble on the horizon, because Fannie interacts with lenders rather than borrowers, which creates a delay in recognizing market conditions. 
 He said Fannie sought to balance market demands prudently against internal standards, that executives always sought to avoid unwise risks, and that Fannie bought far fewer troublesome loans than many other financial institutions. Mr. Mudd said he heeded many warnings from his executives and that Fannie refused to buy many risky loans, regardless of outside pressures . 
 ''You're dealing with massive amounts of information that flow in over months,'' he said. ''You almost never have an 'Oh, my God' moment. Even now, most of the loans we bought are doing fine.''
 But, of course, that moment of truth did arrive. In the middle of last year it became clear that millions of borrowers would stop paying their mortgages. For Fannie, this raised the terrifying prospect of paying billions of dollars to honor its guarantees. 
 Sustained by Government
 Had Fannie been a private entity, its comeuppance might have happened a year ago. But the White House, Wall Street and Capitol Hill were more concerned about the trillions of dollars in other loans that were poisoning financial institutions and banks.
 Lawmakers, particularly Democrats, leaned on Fannie and Freddie to buy and hold those troubled debts, hoping that removing them from the system would help the economy recover. The companies, eager to regain market share and buy what they thought were undervalued loans, rushed to comply.
 The White House also pitched in. James B. Lockhart, the chief regulator of Fannie and Freddie, adjusted the companies' lending standards so they could purchase as much as $40 billion in new subprime loans. Some in Congress praised the move.
 ''I'm not worried about Fannie and Freddie's health, I'm worried that they won't do enough to help out the economy,'' the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, said at the time. ''That's why I've supported them all these years -- so that they can help at a time like this.''
 But earlier this year, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. grew concerned about Fannie's and Freddie's stability. He sent a deputy, Robert K. Steel, a former colleague from his time at Goldman Sachs, to speak with Mr. Mudd and his counterpart at Freddie. 
 Mr. Steel's orders, according to several people, were to get commitments from the companies to raise more money as a cushion against all the new loans. But when he met with the firms, Mr. Steel made few demands and seemed unfamiliar with Fannie's and Freddie's operations, according to someone who attended the discussions. 
 Rather than getting firm commitments, Mr. Steel struck handshake deals without deadlines. 
 That misstep would become obvious over the coming months. Although Fannie raised $7.4 billion, Freddie never raised any additional money.
 Mr. Steel, who left the Treasury Department over the summer to head Wachovia bank, disputed that he had failed in his handling of the companies, and said he was proud of his work . 
 As the housing crisis worsened, Fannie and Freddie announced larger losses, and shares continued falling. 
 In July, Mr. Paulson asked Congress for authority to take over Fannie and Freddie, though he said he hoped never to use it. ''If you've got a bazooka and people know you've got it, you may not have to take it out,'' he told Congress.
 Mr. Mudd called Treasury weekly. He offered to resign, to replace his board, to sell stock, and to raise debt. ''We'll sign in blood anything you want,'' he told a Treasury official, according to someone with knowledge of the conversations.
 But, according to that person, Mr. Mudd told Treasury that those options would work only if government officials publicly clarified whether they intended to take over Fannie. Otherwise, potential investors would refuse to buy the stock for fear of being wiped out.
 ''There were other options on the table short of a takeover,'' Mr. Mudd said. But as long as Treasury refused to disclose its goals, it was impossible for the company to act, according to people close to Fannie. 
 Then, last month, Mr. Mudd was instructed to report to Mr. Lockhart's office. Mr. Paulson told Mr. Mudd that he could either agree to a takeover or have one forced upon him.
 ''This is the right thing to do for the economy,'' Mr. Paulson said, according to two people with knowledge of the talks. ''We can't take any more risks.''
 Freddie was given the same message. Less than 48 hours later, Mr. Lockhart and Mr. Paulson ended Fannie and Freddie's independence, with up to $200 billion in taxpayer money to replenish the companies' coffers. 
 The move failed to stanch a spreading panic in the financial world. In fact, some analysts say, the takeover accelerated the hysteria by signaling that no company, no matter how large, was strong enough to withstand the losses stemming from troubled loans. 
 Within weeks, Lehman Brothers was forced to declare bankruptcy, Merrill Lynch was pushed into the arms of Bank of America, and the government stepped in to bail out the insurance giant the American International Group. 
 Today, Mr. Paulson is scrambling to carry out a $700 billion plan to bail out the financial sector, while Mr. Lockhart effectively runs Fannie and Freddie. 
 Mr. Raines and Mr. Howard, who kept most of their millions, are living well. Mr. Raines has improved his golf game. Mr. Howard divides his time between large homes outside Washington and Cancun, Mexico, where his staff is learning how to cook American meals.
 But Mr. Mudd, who lost millions of dollars as the company's stock declined and had his severance revoked after the company was seized, often travels to New York for job interviews. He recalled that one of his sons recently asked him why he had been fired.
 ''Sometimes things don't work out, no matter how hard you try,'' he replied.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE BUILDERS: By 2000, chief executives like Franklin D. Raines, left, and the chief financial officer J. Timothy Howard had greatly expanded Fannie Mae. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID SCULL/BLOOMBERG NEWS
LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS
KEN CEDENO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.A34) CHART: LEANING ON RISKS: Daniel H. Mudd joined Fannie Mae in 2000. The company grew quickly through 2003. But in 2004, the year Mr. Mudd became chief executive, it lost half its market share to Wall Street firms and other competitors . . . so Fannie greatly increased its business in riskier loans. From 2005 to 2007, it guaranteed payments on almost three times as many loans as it had in all earlier years combined, effectively insuring them against defaults. (Sources: Inside Mortgage Finance
 Fannie Mae company reports) (pg.A34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); ACCOUNTING (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: DANIEL H MUDD (92%); FRANK RAINES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



218 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Observations From Handful of Cities That Could Prove to Be Electoral Key

BYLINE: By PETER ROPER, DOUG McMURDO, WALT RUBELL, BERTRAM DE SOUZA and KALI SCHUMITZ

 BODY:
A smattering of towns and cities have been extensively courted by both major party presidential campaigns this election season. And for good reason: They are key to the outcome in their state. Here are snapshots of five localities in states that are believed to be in play on Nov. 4, as described by editors or columnists of the local newspaper.
 Pueblo, Colo. 
 The Obama people have been a presence here since before the caucuses in February. They have had volunteers on the ground, they've been registering people for months now, they're out in force at the state fair. They have three campaign offices in Pueblo County. McCain just opened a campaign office here in the last four or five weeks.
 Pueblo is traditionally a Democratic town, though conservative Democrat. The origins of the town are built around steel, the old Colorado Fuel and Iron Company. We lost our share of jobs in the '80s, and people are just deeply worried about where the economy is headed now. 
 The question is how big Pueblo will turn out for Senator Obama. Al Gore had a 6,000-vote margin; John Kerry's was 4,000. But if the Republicans can keep the Democratic margin of victory here to 2,000 to 3,000 votes, it helps with the rest of the state.
 McCain is looking for those disenchanted independents, he's looking for those Hillary voters, he's looking for Hispanic voters. Everyone is aware of the long-held tensions between African-Americans and Hispanics; he's looking for whatever Hispanics he can pick up.
 He's rolling the dice here. He's gambling that there's votes to be had.
 Peter Roper, political reporter The Pueblo Chieftain
 Elko, Nev.
 George Bush might not be our president if not for Elko, which proves beyond a shadow of any doubt that every vote truly does count. But this election could be Elko's last hurrah.
 Recent voter registration numbers indicate Democrats now have an 80,000-plus advantage over Republicans in the state, and the Republican lead in Reno's Washoe County has dwindled from 15,000 to less than 2,000 voters in a year.
 Indeed, the latest figures released by Secretary of State Ross Miller indicate Democrats since September 2007 have out-registered Republicans by an obscene margin -- 79,798 to 3,249. Not all of these folks are new to Nevada or new to this concept we call voting. They are former Republicans.
 Barack Obama's three visits to Elko since he announced his candidacy will pay dividends as Nevada Democrats are galvanized like never before.
 Clearly, Elko County with its huge conservative base will carry the day for McCain-Palin, but by how much? Enough to offset Obama's doubtless victory in Clark County, home to Las Vegas where Democrats outnumber Republicans by more than 100,000? I wouldn't bet my paycheck on that one.
 More and more it looks like Nevada will be blue after Nov. 4.
 Doug McMurdo, associate editor The Elko Daily Free Press (adapted from his Oct. 4 column)
 Las Cruces, N.M.
 Las Cruces has always been a Democratic-leaning community, but socially conservative on values like guns and religion. The Catholic church is a huge influence on our community. 
 The economy is probably the biggest issue here, as I suppose it is most places. Because our local economy has a strong government component, with White Sands Missile Range and New Mexico State University, there has always been a feeling that we are ''recession proof.'' But we have been hit hard by the housing bust. Now we have a lot of empty houses on the market.
 There is a big push this year to register college students and get them to the polls -- especially by the Obama campaign. How many actually turn out will be a key to our race.
 I have read media accounts of Hispanic voters being reluctant to vote for Obama, or any black candidate. If that sentiment exists, I haven't seen it. Maybe it's the kind of thing people don't talk about in polite society.
 Walt Rubell, managing editor The Las Cruces Sun-News
 Youngstown, Ohio
 Hillary won here in the primary. On the issues that matter to people here -- the economy, health care -- she and Obama are on the same page. So the issue is why is McCain spending so much time in the Mahoning Valley when you have a Democrat who is on the same page on all the issues?
 When McCain was visiting auto plants in Detroit during the primary and he said ''these jobs are not coming back,'' people here were just livid about that.
 This is a place where you go from high school to the plant where your dad works. They believe you can't give up on manufacturing, that you can't have a strong country without it. They don't want to hear about retraining. They hear that and they think, ''What is he talking about?''
 So when you look at the economy and you look at what's happened to it, you would think that Obama would be doing a lot better here.
 And yet -- because of his race, I don't think he's getting that kind of traction. Because of the race factor, everything is up in the air. There's a comfort level that is just not there.
 Bertram de Souza, columnist The Vindicator
 Fairfax, Va.
 Fairfax County has become fairly significantly Democratic.
 We're not seeing it as a swing area. But it's been able to drive the elections in the state because such a significant part of the population -- one million people -- live here.
 We went very heavily for Jim Webb in the Senate race, and I think basically the common wisdom right now is to win the state, you have to win Northern Virginia.
 We do have a lot of former military people here, so if something brings foreign policy, security issues to the forefront when it gets closer to the election, that could potentially change some of those minds.
 But I think right now the economy is what everyone's feeling and that tends to favor the Democrats.
 Kali Schumitz, news editor The Fairfax Times

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ELKO, NEV.: Residents at a campaign rally in September for Barack Obama, one of three visits he has made to the city since announcing his candidacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PUEBLO, COLO.: Awaiting Mr. Obama's appearance last month at the Colorado State Fair. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO: John McCain's motorcade heading for an early-morning appearance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 FAIRFAX, VA. Door-to-door canvassing by Max Kieff and Brittney Rader, McCain supporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); WRITERS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PUEBLO, CO, USA (90%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (67%) NEVADA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



219 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2040 words

HEADLINE: What Goes On Behind a Scene

BYLINE: By LAUREN LIPTON

 BODY:
AS a keyboardist played ''Killing Me Softly,'' women in party dresses and ice-cube-size diamonds mingled. Men in business suits arrived from offices and wolfed tiny hamburgers from silver trays. The model Iman posed for a blizzard of photographers, while Robert De Niro lay low in a corner and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, hours after announcing he would seek a third term, was mobbed by admirers. 
 The room was thick with air-kissing. 
 It was another October evening on the fall benefit circuit, a kind of stylized ritual for deep-pocketed guests who might attend a dozen such Manhattan parties this month. To produce the few hours of gaiety, five chairwomen and a brigade of behind-the-scenes workers had spent months vetting every detail, from the hors d'oeuvres to the guests of honor. Such considerations are crucial for a gala to succeed amid scores of other parties, all for organizations seeking benefactors for their good works. 
 But this gala, held Thursday at Gotham Hall in Midtown, faced more than the usual challenges. It was the first of its kind for the New York Women's Foundation, which will give away $2.75 million this year but is not yet a household name among the social and philanthropic set. The party would have to lure guests away from their televisions on the night of the hotly anticipated vice presidential debate, which was scheduled long after the foundation sent its save-the-date notices for Oct. 2. 
 Most worrisome by far, it was making its debut in a devastating financial climate that made even well-established charities apprehensive. ''It takes courage to create a new event'' in any economy, said Ana L. Oliveira, the New York Women's Foundation president and chief executive. ''Let alone now.''
 Despite the odds, the foundation wanted to explain its mission to guests willing to spend $1,000 for a basic ticket, or up to $75,000 for a Platinum Visionary Table for 10. The foundation gives grants to nonprofit groups that help low-income women and girls, through services like job training and mentoring. 
 Its revenue in 2007 was $7.5 million, according to its annual report, sizable for a local foundation. In May its annual breakfast fund-raiser attracted 2,200 guests, mostly women, and raised $2 million. But with the economy foundering, the foundation decided to add a second fund-raiser, this one in the evening. ''We wanted to engage men,'' said Tamar Copeland, the charity's director of development. A glamorous night with cocktails, dinner and dancing was planned -- ''an excellent opportunity for people to bring their partners,'' she added. 
 A budget was set, $175,000, and a theme: Stepping Out and Stepping Up -- an allusion to the economy. ''When we in New York experience an economy that's challenging, disadvantaged women and children feel it even more,'' Ms. Copeland said. ''We're asking New Yorkers to step up to the need.'' 
 Enter the evening's chairwomen, responsible for doing much of that asking: Susan R. Cullman, Somers Farkas, Grace Hightower De Niro, Diana L. Taylor and Barbara M. Vogelstein. Each is prominent socially or in business, with connections to corporations and wealth. All five are current or former members of the foundation's board. Although the job description might bring to mind an afternoon of draping the school gym with crepe paper for the senior prom, gala chairwomen put in long hours and must be organized and committed.
 ''It is a job, absolutely,'' said Ms. Vogelstein, a retired partner of the private equity firm Apax Partners, who sits on the board of five institutions, including Vassar College and the Brooklyn Museum. ''It tends to take up most of my time.''
 For any gala, a chairwoman's most important duty is talking up the evening to prominent friends, outreach that goes beyond selling tickets. A chairwoman may pull strings to attract honorees, special guests who in agreeing to accept an award and give a speech can raise an event's take by thousands of dollars by inspiring their friends and colleagues to donate. 
 IN choosing honorees, ''we all sat around and came up with lists of people we had a lot of respect for, and, quite frankly, who we thought would be draws,'' said Ms. Taylor, a managing director at the boutique investment banking firm Wolfensohn & Company and the longtime romantic partner of Mr. Bloomberg. 
 Ms. Taylor recruited the model Iman, who is also a cosmetics company founder and a global ambassador for the charity Keep a Child Alive, as an honoree. She also secured a yes from the city schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein, and his wife, Nicole Seligman, an executive vice president of Sony, after chatting with the couple at the Allen & Company conference in Sun Valley, Idaho, this summer. ''I was sitting next to Joel at one of the presentations, and he said, 'Whatever you want, talk to Nicole,' '' Ms. Taylor said. 
 And, of course, Ms. Taylor secured the participation of Mr. Bloomberg, who agreed to present the awards. ''I was asked, I was begged and then I was told,'' the mayor said to the crowd Thursday night. 
 What the gala's chairwomen were not doing was stuffing envelopes, haggling over catering fees or other grunt work. That was left to an outside company, CMI Event Planning and Fundraising. ''We are professional nags,'' the firm's president, Cathy McNamara, said from her office, a tidy windowless room in Midtown with shelves stacked with goody-bag packaging and fabric swatches. 
 It is the planner's job to keep the chairwomen on track while taking care of printing invitations and submitting a final financial report to the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau. CMI created a four-page timeline and to-do list.
 On the Saturday after Labor Day, Mrs. Farkas, a six-foot, sun-tanned regular on the benefit circuit, cooked dinner at her Long Island weekend house and began working on invitations. While her husband, Jonathan Farkas, an investor and department store heir, watched a movie on cable, Mrs. Farkas pulled out a list of friends, including the society plastic surgeon Dr. Sherrell J. Aston and his wife, Muffie Potter Aston; and the entertainment mogul Damon Dash and his wife, the fashion designer Rachel Roy. 
 ''I had all the invitations on the bed -- 70 or 100 -- and sat and wrote little notes to go with them: 'The New York Women's Foundation is extremely important to me. Please help support these extraordinary women,' '' Mrs. Farkas said later. ''Then I might put, 'Say hey to your husband' or 'Hope you're well.' '' 
 In the fund-raising set's unofficial favor-go-round, where support for a friend's pet cause should, it is understood, be repaid in kind, that personal touch can mean the difference between a yes and regrets. Depending on the time of year, Mr. and Mrs. Farkas receive 10 to 15 invitations a week. Although they support organizations to which they don't have a connection, if an invitation ''is from a friend, and something that means a lot to them, enough that they will sit down and write a note, I will do absolutely everything I can to help them,'' Mrs. Farkas said.
 The women's foundation had guaranteed the caterer 300 guests, and hoped for as many as 350. But as the night neared, it appeared the minimum might not be met. The organizers seemed undaunted -- a low head count does not necessarily mean an event has lost money. An invitee who declines but sends a hefty donation means pure profit. 
 But too few guests can bring down the mood of the night, said Lauren Tregor, the liaison between the gala and its caterer, Great Performances. Ms. Tregor recalled a fall event two years ago when some who had purchased tables did not show up, leaving meals uneaten, centerpieces unappreciated and the room half-empty. ''The organizers were mortified,'' she said.
 It was Ms. Tregor's job to help put together a meal that appealed equally to wispy socialites and their hungry male companions. She helped oversee a preview, a tasting lunch three weeks before the main event, for staff members from the foundation and three of the chairwomen.
 ''I don't know if women will want to eat this,'' Ms. Vogelstein said during the appetizer course about the miniburger with red pepper ketchup that was served in the back room of the caterer's restaurant in SoHo. Others murmured agreement.
 Ms. Tregor pointed out that men love miniature hamburgers, which another Great Performances staff member called the new pigs in a blanket. 
 As the room excitedly debated swapping the burgers for pigs in blankets, five prototype floral table arrangements were set out. Some were dismissed as too ordinary, others too tall. Mrs. De Niro liked a coppery bowl with orange and red blooms, but the green reeds woven across its top were deemed distracting. Ms. McNamara, the event planner, rushed to remove the offending reeds, and the arrangement was chosen. Napkins in various shades -- terra cotta, wine, paprika -- were rejected in favor of olive green.
 The date was Sept. 11, and outside the softly lighted inner sanctum, Lehman Brothers and Washington Mutual were desperately trying to prevent collapse. The state of the economy had become, in hushed conversations on the Upper East Side, Topic A. ''We often know names in the newspapers,'' Mrs. Farkas said. ''Among friends, we do talk about business and how it's affecting the emotional and financial mood of the whole country. You cannot deny that it affects everyone.''
 It is still early to predict the larger impact of Wall Street's credit crisis on New York philanthropy, and charities are trying to stay at least publicly optimistic. Some nonprofit groups whose fall benefit tickets went on sale earlier in the year have had successful fund-raisers. New Yorkers for Children, which helps young people in foster care, took in $1.85 million at its Sept. 16 fete, only slightly under its 2007 record. The Metropolitan Opera grossed a record $6.2 million at its Opening Night Gala on Sept. 22 starring Renee Fleming. 
 Privately, charity executives and insiders admit the outlook is bleak, with individuals having less to give and corporate donations in jeopardy. One national nonprofit group, Seedco, postponed its gala, which had been scheduled for Oct. 7. 
 There are likely to be further declines for events scheduled in the spring. ''I think it's going to be overall disastrous for charities, with no end in sight,'' said Sanford J. Schlesinger, a New York trust and estates lawyer who has seen some clients put off creating foundations and rethinking major gifts. 
 ON Tuesday, two days before the foundation's gala, 280 of the hoped-for 300 tickets had sold. Ms. Oliveira, the foundation president, said that no companies had withdrawn and that checks had cleared for the tables, including one purchased by Wachovia, the imploding bank, another victim of financial turmoil. At a final meeting about the party, Ms. Oliveira said: ''I made a little comment: 'Is Wachovia coming?' Someone said, 'Not only are they coming, they need to go out and get a drink.' '' 
 At Gotham Hall, a grand, lofty space that was once the headquarters of a bank, guests sipped martinis and applauded the speeches. A mambo performance by a dozen school-age dancers momentarily transfixed the room. A few minutes before 9, guests were invited to stay and dance or head to a separate room to watch the vice presidential debate.
 Within minutes, the 70 seats in the side room were filled, with guests who included the De Niros; Gayle King of O, the Oprah Magazine; and Iman. There were sugar cookies shaped like elephants, donkeys and American flags. When Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. used the phrase ''bridge to nowhere,'' the room erupted in cheers. Outside on the dance floor, half a dozen people twirled and bobbed as the band played ''Dancing Queen.''
 Packing up for the evening in the front reception area, Ms. Copeland, the foundation's director of development, pronounced herself pleased. The evening had grossed $675,000 and a number of full tables had been sold, including one for $50,000. 
 ''In a city where there are lots of galas, it's great for us to hear that people enjoyed themselves,'' Ms. Copeland said the next morning. ''Nobody came to us and said, 'You should stick to breakfast.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STEPPING UP: The New York Women's Foundation held its first gala on Thursday at Gotham Hall. Behind the evening's gaiety were months of planning details from flowers to honorees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA MCALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
PREP WORK: From left, Barbara M. Vogelstein, Tamar Copeland, Grace Hightower De Niro and Dana Micheli critiqued food possibilities for the gala with the caterer in SoHo. Flowers were selected as well. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA MCALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST10)
 FINE-TUNING: The seating chart gets a last-minute once-over. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA MCALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); FOUNDATIONS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ANNUAL REPORTS (72%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (71%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



220 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Wistful Trip for Bush to a Boyhood Home

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: MIDLAND, Tex. 

 BODY:
The last time George W. Bush came here, on Jan. 17, 2001, an estimated 10,000 people clogged the downtown to cheer a hometown hero who was about to be inaugurated as the 43rd president of the United States. The streets were bedecked with American flags, and Mr. Bush's sunny optimism filled the air as he spoke of ''a spirit of possibility that was as big as the West Texas sky.''
 Now the sun is setting on the Bush presidency, and on Saturday, he made a wistful return to Midland, stopping at one of his childhood homes to reflect, if only briefly, on what had changed and what had stayed the same. 
 ''You know, I've told my friends here, I said, 'You know, I'm not going to change as a person because of politics or Washington' -- that's what I said when I left,'' said Mr. Bush, standing outside the small gray-shingled ranch-style house on West Ohio Avenue where he and his family lived for four years. He added, ''I'm wiser, more experienced, but my heart and my values didn't change.''
 Mr. Bush's modest boyhood home, which has been restored to its 1950s condition -- complete with family photos, his mother-in-law's teal 1955 General Electric refrigerator and a red tricycle in the yard -- is now a museum. His visit was not announced; the official reason for the trip to Midland was to raise money for Republican Congressional candidates. The president is spending the weekend at his ranch in Crawford, about an hour's plane ride from here, and he will attend a fund-raiser on Monday in San Antonio.
 Together, the two events are expected to raise $1 million, party officials said. On Friday, in St. Louis, Mr. Bush raised $1.5 million for Kenny Hulshof, a congressman who is running for governor of Missouri. 
 All of the events were closed to reporters, which gave Mr. Bush's visit to Midland an entirely different feel from the one he made nearly eight years ago, when the town was strung up with banners proclaiming him ''Midland's Rising Son.''
 Mr. Bush slipped into Midland quietly. Just a handful of people, including his old friend Donald Evans, the former commerce secretary, and the mayors of Midland and nearby Odessa, were on hand to greet him when Air Force One touched down. 
 There were no banners and no cheering crowds along the motorcade route, just a sparse group of curious onlookers, some of whom took snapshots with cellphone cameras of Mr. Bush's black limousine as he and his wife, Laura, made their way to the home of Representative K. Michael Conaway, the host of the fund-raiser. 
 After the event, the president's aides announced that Mr. Bush would make an ''O.T.R.'' -- White House lingo for an off-the-record stop -- at his boyhood home.
 The three-bedroom house, operated by a private nonprofit group, is called the George W. Bush Childhood Home, although it was also the home of Mr. Bush's father, the former president, and his brother Jeb, a former governor of Florida. It is one of three homes the president lived in as a child; his parents, who had moved to Midland in 1948, bought the house in 1951, when Mr. Bush was about 5, and kept it until 1955. On Saturday, the president confessed that his memory of the place was a little fuzzy.
 ''I kind of remember it,'' he said, adding, ''The bedroom -- actually I do remember the wood on the wall.''
 Mr. Bush and his wife returned to Midland in the 1970s, when he was trying to get started in the oil business. He made his first run for office, a failed bid for the House, from Midland in 1978.
 The president spent only a short while inside the West Ohio Avenue home on Saturday, and when he came out he called it ''a very heartwarming experience.'' He also referred briefly to the $700 billion rescue of the financial system that Congress passed last week and to the economic crisis that is likely to dominate the rest of his presidency.
 ''You know,'' he said, ''we got a couple more hard months to go.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNORS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); MAYORS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); K MICHAEL CONAWAY (58%); KENNY C HULSHOF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (78%) TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



221 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Political Scorekeeping

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT

 BODY:
IT is a little over four weeks to Election Day, and The Times is under a microscope and under attack.
 Did you know that OBAMA has appeared six times in New York Times crossword puzzles since January 2005, and MCCAIN has not appeared once? I didn't either, but Politico noticed. Will Shortz, who edits Times crosswords, said the explanation has nothing to do with politics. ''OBAMA is a godsend for crossword constructors because the name is short and has three vowels out of five letters,'' he said. MCCAIN, with its successive c's, is much harder. (Bob DOLE has been in Times crosswords 10 times, Bill CLINTON never.)
 Some readers, like Barbara Abramson of Princeton, N.J., look at the newspaper's photo selections and think they favor John McCain and Sarah Palin. Abramson objected to a front-page photo of Palin meeting with Henry Kissinger and, the next day, ''another big photo of her, beautiful legs and all.'' 
 But most of the complaints come from the other side, starting at the top. John McCain's chief strategist, Steve Schmidt, said last month that The Times is ''completely, totally, 150 percent in the tank for'' Barack Obama. Lenny Zannin of Richmond, Va., spoke for many readers when he said that The Times is ''targeting'' McCain and Palin and ''practically giving the Obama/Biden ticket a pass.''
 What set Schmidt off was a report that Rick Davis, McCain's campaign manager, was paid nearly $2 million over five years by an advocacy group set up by the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to defend them against stricter government regulation. The article came just as McCain was trying to tie the financial crisis, including the collapse of Fannie and Freddie, to Obama, and it undercut a major McCain campaign theme: that he is a reformer who would clean up Washington's cozy insider culture.
 Two days later, The Times and others reported that instead of severing all ties to Fannie and Freddie, as McCain said Davis had done, Davis had requested a new arrangement under which Freddie made monthly payments to his lobbying firm, Davis Manafort. That deal lasted through August, until just before the government took over Freddie. 
 Ignoring similar reports by Newsweek and others, the McCain campaign charged that The Times story was ''a partisan attack falsely labeled as objective news.'' Angry readers like Don DeVan of Knoxville, Tenn., were sure The Times had wronged McCain. ''Please print a retraction of these false allegations about the McCain campaign and start telling the truth,'' DeVan wrote. Ed Lester of Jamesville, N.Y., wondered, ''When will the NY Times investigate McCain's claims and, if they are true, retract the statements?'' 
 A careful reading of the Times articles and a response posted on the McCain campaign's Web site leads me to conclude that the campaign misstated what The Times reported and did not deny what the paper did say.
 The McCain response said The Times's charge that Davis was paid by Freddie Mac until August was ''demonstrably false.'' But The Times did not say Davis was paid. It said the payments went to Davis Manafort, in which he maintains an ownership interest. The statement said -- and The Times reported -- that Davis has received no income from his firm since 2006. But The Times said that, ''as an equity holder,'' Davis ''continues to benefit from its income.'' That seems true: the more revenue Davis Manafort gets, the more valuable Davis's stake is.
 The campaign statement also said that The Times failed to report that Davis ''has never -- never -- been a lobbyist for either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.'' The Times said Davis Manafort was ''hired as a consultant, not a lobbyist'' and that all Davis did was speak once at a pre-election forum attended by company executives. In Washington, such relationships are not necessarily about lobbying in the strict sense; they are about cultivating those with access to power.
 Some readers wondered why The Times did not look into Obama's ties to Fannie and Freddie. But the newspaper did, in a front-page article that said both presidential candidates had extensive ties to the firms and that Obama was second among all members of Congress in contributions from the companies' employees and political action committees.
 But what about the broader charge that The Times has been tough on McCain and Palin and easy on Obama and Joe Biden?
 Since late August, when the two presidential tickets were formed, The Times has published nine enterprise or investigative articles about McCain -- four on the front page -- taking tough, critical looks at some aspect of the candidate or his campaign. They included reports on the hasty, last-minute vetting of Palin, distortions or misstatements of fact in McCain's television ads, and his love of gambling and ties to the industry. In the same period, there have been four such pieces on Obama, one on the front page.
 Until Thursday, when The Times published a front-page article on Biden's lifestyle and personal finances, he seemed like a forgotten candidate, while three tough articles about Palin had been on the front page. (Several readers called the Biden piece a ''hit'' and charged that The Times wrote it only to even the score because Republicans were complaining.)
 ''We're aware of the perception that we're too focused on McCain and not enough on Obama,'' said Richard Stevenson, the editor in charge of campaign coverage. But he said The Times did a lot of its investigative work on Obama early last year, when he was the new candidate on the scene -- and when McCain's campaign ''barely had a heartbeat.''
 Though overlooked or perhaps forgotten by readers focused only on the recent coverage, The Times reported over a year ago on Obama's relationship with his controversial pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, and his dealings with Antoin Rezko, a supporter convicted of fraud. It reported that Obama frequently voted ''present'' on controversial issues in the Illinois Senate, illustrating an elusiveness that still reverberates in the campaign. It has explored his ties to the ethanol industry and the Washington insiders who are bundling big campaign contributions for him. It broke the story early this year of how Obama claimed credit for legislation requiring notice of radioactive leaks from nuclear power plants when, in fact, he had watered it down to satisfy Republicans, regulators and an Illinois utility -- and then the bill died.
 By my count, The Times has published more tough articles on Obama, 20, than on McCain, 13, since the beginning of last year. I have posted links to the stories on my blog, The Public Editor's Journal, and you can decide for yourself.
 The Times plans to devote the Oct. 26 Week in Review section to a voters' guide, including summaries of all its enterprise reporting on the candidates. That ought to help readers grasp coverage that has spanned nearly two years. 
 There's still a month to go and more questions to be asked about all the candidates.
 ''We're not done yet,'' said Bill Keller, the executive editor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); POLITICS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (68%); LOBBYING (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); SARAH PALIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (74%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



222 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: Eco-nomics

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FREEDLAND. 
Jonathan Freedland is a former Washington correspondent and now an editorial page columnist for The Guardian.

 BODY:
HOT, FLAT, AND CROWDED
 Why We Need a Green Revolution -- and How It Can Renew America
 By Thomas L. Friedman
 438 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $27.95
 Thet environmental movement reserves a hallowed place for those books or films that have stirred people from their slumber and awoken them to the fragility of the planet: Rachel Carson's ''Silent Spring,'' Bill McKibben's ''End of Nature'' and, most recently, Al Gore's Oscar-winning documentary, ''An Inconvenient Truth.'' Thomas L. Friedman's new book, ''Hot, Flat, and Crowded'' may lack the soaring, elegiac qualities of those others. But it conceivably just might goad America's wealthiest to face the threat of climate change and do something about it. 
 Friedman, the thrice-Pulitzered foreign affairs columnist of The New York Times, has built a following beyond readers with an interest in international relations. His last book, ''The World Is Flat,'' made him a best-selling author in business class, the kind of writer that those who turn left when boarding a plane feel they ought to be seen reading. Friedman does not shy away from this audience; indeed he sometimes seems to be writing especially for it. ''Do half your employees use computers and half use paper, pencils and abacuses?'' he asks in one passage, apparently confident that he is addressing a chief executive. 
 For that very reason, Friedman could perhaps touch those who have so far eluded the green movement's reach: the hardheaded executives more worried by projections of receding profits than retreating glaciers. That constituency listened to Friedman on globalization and they might be ready to listen to him again on global warming. 
 The form of ''Hot, Flat, and Crowded'' is trademark Friedman: a series of arguments, often distilled into mnemonic formulations, some snappier than others -- it's not A.D. 2008, but ''1 E.C.E.,'' the first year of the ''Energy-Climate Era'' -- all based on extensive, far-flung reporting, most of it consisting of interviews with experts, professors and, of course, C.E.O.s. 
 What will appeal to can-do business types is that Friedman's book does not dwell, as, say, Gore's movie did, on describing the problem, but concentrates most on sketching possible solutions. It is in these passages that Friedman's argument really takes off, allowing him to give vent to his enthusiasm and unabashed idealism. Non-Americans might find his wide-eyed patriotism a touch saccharine if not naive, but it's hard not to be carried along by his evident passion. 
 To be sure, the book begins with a diagnosis of ''where we are'' and ''how we got here'' that is short on good cheer. We live, Friedman explains with reference to his previous work, in a world that is flat -- a level economic playing field with fewer barriers between countries and individuals -- but that is now also becoming crowded, thanks to rising population. And the problem is not just that the raw number of people is increasing, it's that many more are gaining access to an American level of consumerism. With the world's population of ''Americans'' heading toward two or three billion -- all desiring the middle-class comforts of a car, a fridge and an air-conditioner -- the global demand for energy is soaring to new heights. That, Friedman says, is unsustainable. 
 This hunger for energy is dangerous not only because it means belching more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, so pushing the temperature to dangerously high levels, but also because it is robbing the world of precious, and beautiful, biodiversity, destroying a unique species every 20 minutes. It also means we're lining the pockets of the autocrats who tend to control the world's reserves of fossil fuel, the ''petrodictators.'' And we are opening an ever wider gap between the energy haves and the energy have-nots, those who cannot take part in the ''flat'' world because they cannot switch on a light bulb, let alone a laptop. 
 Friedman knows what is to be done. The United States needs to set an example for the world to follow, by starting over and constructing an entirely new Clean Energy System, one that will send ''clean electrons'' into its homes, offices and cars -- generated not by dirty old oil or coal, but by solar, wind and nuclear power -- and that will use many fewer of those electrons, thanks to greater efficiency. In the book's most arresting passage, Friedman plays futurist and looks ahead -- to ''20 E.C.E.'' -- imagining a world where an Energy Internet puts each one of your home appliances in touch with the power company, drawing out only the minimal power it needs to function and at the cheapest, off-peak times. Even your car, by now a plug-in hybrid that gets the equivalent of 100 miles per gallon, can charge its battery with solar power, which it then sells back to the grid. 
 All this would, of course, require the most profound shift. As Friedman explains, utility companies were established at a time when the sources of power to generate electricity were assumed to be limitless. The utilities' responsibility was, and remains, to supply a constant flow of electrons to every household; they have a direct financial stake in keeping demand high. These companies need to be fundamentally rewired so that their rewards come from persuading us all to use less, not more, of their product. 
 The way to do that, Friedman explains, is by ''reshaping the market,'' not only to make us use less electricity, but to make the power companies buy energy from cleaner sources. It will take an entirely new regime of taxes, incentives and price signals, all set by the federal government. Oh, says the ideological free marketeer, we couldn't possibly meddle in the market like that. But guess what, Friedman replies: we already do. Washington has tilted the energy playing field for years -- subsidizing oil, gas and coal and giving only puny, halting help to wind and solar power. It is, Friedman writes, ''a market designed to keep fossil fuels cheap and renewables expensive and elusive.'' 
 What's needed is the presidential leadership of an Abraham Lincoln or a Franklin Roosevelt to command enough authority to face down the fossil fuel lobbies and create a single, national system that would instantly release the pent-up innovation and creativity that is ready to get to work, cleaning up America's energy supply and reducing its demand. Once the United States has done that, and shown that there's money to be made from the new industry of ''greening,'' the rest of the world will, as a matter of self-interest, follow suit. In the process, America will have discovered a national mission for itself once more. 
 Readers of Friedman's earlier books may well pause at this point and wonder what has happened to their favorite evangelist for globalization. For it's hard not to detect a slight shift leftward in this conversion to radical, government-led action to save the planet. 
 Friedman is at pains to insist that there's nothing leftie about caring for the environment: it's no longer ''yoga mats, Birkenstock sandals, tofu.'' Indeed, in a fascinating section, he meets United States Army officers who have gone green, converted by the realization that the need to transport oil to generators in the Iraqi desert left their men needlessly exposed to enemy attack. They understood that if they could use less energy, or even generate their own, they would be safer. 
 Nevertheless, Friedman inevitably finds himself making arguments -- urging a muscular federal government to push aside the selfish interests of the big corporate lobbies -- that were once confined to the left. It can lead him into contradictory terrain. Thus, he is committed to praising the globalizing forces that have flattened the world, but he despairs at their consequences. He mourns, for example, the burning of rain forests, quoting the noted entomologist Edward O. Wilson that it is ''like burning all the paintings of the Louvre to cook dinner.'' Yet he does not address the fact that multinational companies are able to come in and lay waste to these forests only because of the global trading rules Friedman once so admired. 
 He deplores the nationalization of companies, seeing privatization as an index of freedom on a par with a free press and democratic elections -- yet he also looks longingly at the well-resourced mass transit systems of Europe, which keep cars off the road and emit less carbon dioxide, and which are only possible thanks either to state ownership or to enormous, taxpayer-supported subsidies. He knows that we cannot simply consume more and more from a finite planet; he understands that prosperity is threatened by the very ''nature of American capitalism''; he quotes approvingly the Norwegian oil executive who warns, ''Capitalism may collapse because it does not allow the market to tell the ecological truth.'' 
 But Friedman does not surrender to these dark thoughts; he pulls himself together and recovers his faith in the American economic model. The free market will be fine, he says, so long as it's tweaked to start telling the truth, reflecting the true cost to the earth of all that we consume. 
 These intellectual tensions are not the only flaws in ''Hot, Flat, and Crowded.'' Scholarly types will doubtless find the first-person examples excessive: they will surely want to remind Friedman that the plural of ''anecdote'' is not ''data.'' General readers, too, may wish for a slightly leaner manuscript, lighter on complex technical detail, which can be overwhelming. Some of the interviewee quotations are either too baggy or too dense, as if Friedman has moved large sections of transcript into his text. The writing style, with constant new coinages and shorthand phrases -- ''I call this the 'Naked Gun 2 1/2 rule' '' -- while winning in a column, can grate over the distance of a book. Whole sentences are repeated or italicized for emphasis, in the style of a spoken lecture. And there are some horribly mixed metaphors: ''The demise of the Soviet Union and its iron curtain was like the elimination of a huge physical and political roadblock on the global economic playing field.'' 
 But these are minor infelicities when set against a book that will be accessible outside the eco-converted, is grounded in detailed research and repeatedly hits its target. It contains some killer facts -- the American pet food industry spends more on research and development than the country's power companies; Ronald Reagan stripped from the White House the solar panels that Jimmy Carter had installed as a symbolic step toward energy independence. Above all, it is fundamentally right on the biggest question of our age. If Friedman's profile and verve take his message where it needs to be heard, into the boardrooms of America and beyond, that can only be good -- for all our sakes.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MK MABRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); BESTSELLERS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: RENEW AMERICA (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%); AL GORE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



223 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: From the Neighborhoods, Thoughts on a Third Term

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
The Guy R. Brewer Democratic Club in St. Albans, Queens, was empty the afternoon the mayor made his announcement, except for three party foot soldiers registering voters at a folding table by the door and a grand old man of Queens Democratic politics, the former city councilman Archie Spigner, sitting in the back with a friend from the local community board.
 At the front of the room, eyes were rolling at the news that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wanted to change city law to seek a third term. ''Can you change the rules of a democracy just like that? The ultimate power rests with the people,'' said Donnie Whitehead, a community organizer. ''It's arrogant.''
 ''Changing the rules!'' said Helen Jones, a New York Racing Association retiree who was festooned in images of Barack Obama, from her earrings to her T-shirt. ''Don't get me started, because I don't want to get angry.'' 
 In the back, Mr. Spigner, who had to give up his own seat in 2003 because of term limits, was more forgiving. ''If they want the mayor for another four years, so be it,'' he said. 
 But the political insiders and the rank and file -- players of ''the inside game'' and ''the outside game,'' in Mr. Whitehead's parlance -- agreed on two things. First, weighing the appeal of four more Bloomberg years is impossible without judging the mayor's handling of the case of Sean Bell, who was shot to death by the police outside a Queens nightclub on the day of his wedding in 2006. 
 Second, however disappointing many in the neighborhood found the Bell verdict -- the officers were acquitted in April -- Mr. Bloomberg warmed City Hall's relations with black New Yorkers by showing up to listen to their concerns about police brutality.
 ''It was a potentially explosive situation. He had a calming effect,'' said Manuel Caughman, the community board member who joined Mr. Spigner, recalling meetings the mayor held at Thomasina's catering hall and the New Jerusalem Baptist Church.
 Mr. Whitehead said the mayor's approach was more finesse, and logrolling with some black leaders to win support, than substance: ''Look at the results. We had a kinder approach, but injustice dominated the day.''
 Still, the difference counts for something, he said: ''It's better in the sense that he didn't incite people to riot and to become destructive. You can't resolve everyone's problems, but a good listening with kindness calms the heart and makes a friend. Bloomberg can listen to people talk with anger and he knows how to not say the wrong thing. He's a great politician.''
 The talk at the Democratic club, a simple one-story hall decorated with tattered stars-and-stripes bunting, reflected the varied concerns of St. Albans and other southeast Queens neighborhoods, where bastions of black middle-class homeownership interlace with areas of high crime and unemployment.
 Amid the concerns about young men whose main interaction with city authority is with the police, Mr. Bloomberg won points for his accessible and well-organized responses to more mundane worries: flooding (his lieutenants are working on it, but not fast enough to keep Mr. Spigner's basement from being inundated twice this summer); neighborhood character (he rezoned much of southeast Queens to keep out multifamily homes); and schools and bus routes (there are not enough).
 ''He may be a billionaire, but he's a gentleman billionaire,'' Mr. Spigner said. ''Maybe it's easy to be nice with $10 billion -- I'd be nice, too!''
 Along Linden Boulevard, and in nearby Jamaica, the mayor and his efforts to extend his time in office got both better and worse reviews. Here are some: 
 Dr. Maxine Morgan-Dean, an emergency-room physician, came back to the Sean Bell case. 
 ''He's kept the city together. He's a common-sense mayor. I can't think of anyone else I would want. He's always around here. ...If anything happens around here, he's the first one to come out. 
 The school system was terrible. Ending social promotions, that was one of the best policies. 
 And the fact that we don't have to pay him -- he's not influenced by interest groups. He's not swayed by anybody. He could be sitting on his yacht and relaxing the rest of his days.
 What happened wasn't fair, but what he said to help the family and kids was very good. You can't go against the verdict if you're saying that we have a fair system, and hindsight is always 20-20. You have to believe in the system. But at least he was willing to say that we have to take care of his family.'' 
 Walter Davis, 43, owns Dee's, a soul food restaurant in Jamaica.
 ''I think he shouldn't be there for a third term. He wasn't bad, over all, but he wasn't good, too. It's like a 50-50 thing with him. The good thing he did was he got the police a new contract -- so they can make more money. The bad thing is, he gave the police permission to kill. Being a man of color, I feel that we're targeted, more than anybody else. 
 Now they say they want to keep him for a third term, so he can help with what's going on with the stock market. But if he didn't stop it before, what's he going to do now?''
 Darryl Kennedy is the owner of a barbershop, Haircutter, on 160th Street.
 ''I don't see him do nothing for the working class. The rich is already rich, and they're going to be rich. I don't have nothing against him as an individual. But he's not thinking about the little people. And the little people could shut down this city....
 We don't need business redevelopment. People need housing, they need jobs. Tell him to build some affordable housing. I hear about everyone's problems here at the barbershop: This is like the black man's country club.''
 Sean Jackson, 25, is an inventory auditor.
 ''He's doing it for fun. He's not even doing it to make change. He's doing it as a hobby.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a political club in St. Albans, above, Archie Spigner, center, with Manuel Caughman, left, and Jack Tennyson. At right, Dr. Maxine Morgan-Dean had her hair done by Doreen Grant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (66%); ACQUITTAL (62%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



224 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Man in the Middle

BYLINE: By PATRICK COCKBURN. 
Patrick Cockburn is the author of ''Muqtada: Muqtada Al-Sadr, the Shia Revival, and the Struggle for Iraq.''

 BODY:
LION OF JORDAN
 The Life of King Hussein in War and Peace
 By Avi Shlaim
 723 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35
 KING HUSSEIN OF JORDAN
 A Political Life
 By Nigel Ashton
 431 pp. Yale University Press. $35
 King Hussein of Jordan (1935-99)was the great survivor of Middle East politics. For almost half a century until his death in 1999 he balanced delicately between the Arab world, Israel and the United States. There were few important events in the region in which he did not play a role, from the Suez crisis in 1956, when Israel, Britain and France invaded Egypt, to the bungled attempt 40 years later by the C.I.A. and Iraqi exiles to overthrow Saddam Hussein using Jordan as a base. 
 But Hussein was always far more than an artful opportunist cynically shifting alliances with the sole aim of staying in power. It is for this reason that these two excellent biographies are so worthwhile. ''Lion of Jordan,'' by Avi Shlaim, a professor of international relations at the University of Oxford, and ''King Hussein of Jordan,'' by Nigel Ashton, a senior lecturer at the London School of Economics and Political Science, provide insight not only into the king but into the conflicts that ravaged the region during his lifetime. Shlaim has a particularly valuable account of Hussein's relations with Israel and the Palestinians, while Ashton is very interesting on Hussein's relations with Iraq and the wider Arab world. 
 Hussein's critics accused him of being all things to all men, and it is true that he systematically cultivated good relations with leaders who would speak to him but loathed one another. Jordan's colors were, in the patronizing words of one British ambassador soon after Hussein was crowned king in 1953, ''firmly nailed to the fence.'' The jibe had some truth in it, though it underestimated Hussein's capacity for swift and independent action if his interests were threatened. 
 Britain created Jordan out of the largely barren and scantily inhabited land east of the Jordan River in the aftermath of the defeat of the Ottoman Empire in World War I. For its ruler the British chose Abdullah, the second son of the sharif of Mecca and their ally against the Ottomans, who became the first member of the Hashemite dynasty to rule Jordan. A political realist like his grandson Hussein, he was adamantly averse to fighting anybody stronger than himself, and this included the nascent Israeli state. He emerged a winner in the first Arab-Israeli war in 1948 when he ordered his army across the Jordan River with the objective, as Shlaim puts it, not of preventing ''the establishment of a Jewish state but to make a bid for the Arab part of Palestine.'' Three years later Abdullah paid a price for this when he was shot dead by a Palestinian nationalist gunman as he walked, together with the 15-year-old Hussein, into Al Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem. 
 When Hussein succeeded his mentally ill father he inherited an impoverished kingdom at the heart of a chronically unstable political earthquake zone. Between then and his death he saw many of the world's most dangerous crises erupt on his doorstep, in Israel, Egypt, Syria, Lebanon and Iraq. Geography made Jordan an important player. Shlaim and Ashton show how skillfully its ruler played his hand. 
 The British were the first to discover that the new king was unwilling to behave as the pliant tool of Western powers in order to keep his crown. He was an autocrat but also saw himself as an Arab nationalist. The Jordanian Army had been built up by the British general John Bagot Glubb, who was viewed by foreigners and Jordanians alike as the power behind the throne. In 1956 the young king suddenly sacked this important figure, giving Glubb at first just two hours to leave the country. ''Hussein's broad political reason for dismissing Glubb,'' Shlaim remarks, ''stemmed from his fear that if he did not place himself at the head of the nationalist movement, he would be overwhelmed by it.'' 
 It was a calculation that was to determine or at least color many of Hussein's policy decisions. It gave the lie to Arab nationalist critics who denounced him as a stooge for the British and the Americans or a treacherous collaborator with Israel, though he cultivated close relations with all three. It helped save him from the fate of his cousin and boyhood friend King Faisal II of Iraq, shot down by Iraqi army officers during a military coup in Baghdad in 1958. This need to show that he stood with his fellow Arabs also propelled Hussein into his most disastrous decision. In 1967 he went to war with Israel as an ally of Egypt and Syria and in a few days lost East Jerusalem and the West Bank, half of his kingdom. 
 In the aftermath of this catastrophic defeat, many foreign observers believed he could not survive. Yet the king always held a slightly stronger hand than others imagined. In a region of military regimes he had the loyalty of the army, which drew many of its officers and men from Bedouin tribes of Jordan. In the brief civil war of 1970 between Hussein's forces and the Palestinian fedayeen, he commanded 65,000 well-trained and well-equipped troops compared with 15,000 lightly armed Palestinian militiamen. The outcome of the conflict was never in doubt. 
 The United States had long replaced Britain as Hussein's main foreign mentor, and Washington's political, military and financial backing was essential to him. With few natural resources Jordan was always in need of a paymaster. The king also needed to know what was in the minds of successive Israeli leaders to avert any direct military threat or plans to turn Jordan into a permanent national home for the Palestinians. 
 These encounters, entailing a great number of meetings with American and Israeli political, military and intelligence leaders, are retailed at somewhat excessive length in both these books. The king's diplomatic efforts, as he himself repeatedly said, were all too frequently ineffectual. Shlaim concludes sadly that Hussein's attempts ''to work out a peaceful solution to the conflict in the Middle East met, for the most part, with ignorance and indifference on the part of the top American policy makers and dishonesty and deviousness on the part of the Israeli ones.'' 
 The sources for the life of King Hussein have become plentiful. ''Until now, no biography of a contemporary Arab leader has been written with the benefit of full access to his papers,'' writes Ashton, who was given entry to the royal archive by Hussein's son and successor, King Abdullah II, in 2007. These papers certainly flesh out our knowledge of Hussein's relationship with other leaders, from Saddam Hussein to Ronald Reagan, but they are scarcely revelatory. What they do confirm is Hussein's reputation for being a highly intelligent and kindhearted man, surely the most attractive of recent Middle Eastern leaders, though the competition here is scarcely very stiff. 
 On one occasion a suspiciously large number of dead cats were found in the palace grounds in Amman, the Jordanian capital. Investigators discovered that a royal cook had been bribed by Syrian security to poison the king and was testing the correct dosage on the local cat population. Shlaim relates that the cook was jailed ''until Hussein responded to a plea from the cook's daughter by releasing him to celebrate a Muslim feast with his family.'' Compare this with the actions of Saddam Hussein, who reacted to a botched attempt to assassinate him in Dujail north of Baghdad in 1982 by torturing to death or executing 148 men and boys from the village.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAJED JABER/REUTERS (1997)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%)

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); JORDAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); FRANCE (77%)

TITLE: Lion of Jordan (Book)>; King Hussein of Jordan (Book)>; Lion of Jordan (Book)>; King Hussein of Jordan (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



225 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1867 words

HEADLINE: Economic Unrest Is Shifting Electoral Battlegrounds

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
The turmoil on Wall Street and the weakening economy are changing the contours of the presidential campaign map, giving new force to Senator Barack Obama's ambitious strategy to make incursions into Republican territory, while leading Senator John McCain to scale back his efforts to capture Democratic states.
 Mr. Obama has what both sides describe as serious efforts under way in at least nine states that voted for President Bush in 2004, including some that neither side thought would be on the table this close to Election Day. In a visible sign of the breadth of Mr. Obama's aspirations, he is using North Carolina -- a state that Mr. Bush won by 13 percentage points in 2004, and where Mr. Obama is now spending heavily on advertisements -- as his base to prepare this weekend for the debate on Tuesday. 
 By contrast, Mr. McCain is vigorously competing in just four states where Democrats won in 2004: Pennsylvania and New Hampshire, followed by Wisconsin and Minnesota. His decision last week to pull out of Michigan reflected in part the challenge that the declining economy has created for Republicans, given that they have held the White House for the last eight years. 
 But Mr. McCain's abrupt decision, which caught many members of his own party by surprise, also underlined the tactical political squeeze he finds himself in: by using his fund-raising advantage to compete in so many places, Mr. Obama has forced Mr. McCain to spend money to hold on in what had been viewed as safe Republican states, like Indiana and Missouri, while limiting Mr. McCain's ability to play offense on Democratic turf.
 Mr. Obama now has a solid lead in states that account for 189 electoral votes, and he is well positioned in states representing 71 more electoral votes, for a total of 260, according to a tally by The New York Times, based on polls and interviews with officials from both campaigns and outside analysts. It takes 270 electoral votes to win the presidency.
 Mr. McCain has solid leads in states with 160 electoral votes and is well positioned in states with another 40 electoral votes, according to the Times tally, for a total of 200. Just six states representing 78 electoral votes -- Colorado, Florida, Nevada, New Hampshire, Ohio and Virginia -- are tossups.
 Mr. Obama appears to have significantly more options to reach the 270 threshold, particularly if Mr. McCain fails to win any states that Democrats won in 2004, like Pennsylvania, where the Republican ticket has been competing especially vigorously. 
 That said, the margin in many of these states remains relatively tight, and the field could certainly shift again in the final weeks, as the presidential candidates engage in two more debates and as Mr. McCain steps up his attacks on Mr. Obama, as his aides said he planned to do.
 Mr. McCain's advisers said their hope was that the issue of the economy would recede somewhat from the public consciousness, now that Congress has passed a bailout plan, and open the way to try to turn the contest back into a referendum on Mr. Obama's credentials. They argued that given everything that had happened, Mr. McCain remained in easy distance of Mr. Obama, evidence of what they said were underlying problems with his appeal.
 ''Senator Obama has more money than God, the most favorable political climate imaginable -- a three-week Wall Street meltdown and financial crisis -- and with all that, the most margin he can get is four points?'' said Bill McInturff, one of Mr. McCain's pollsters. ''That does speak to the questions there are about lack of experience, his candidacy, and other things that make people say, 'Gosh, is he really ready?' ''
 Mr. Obama in particular is moving to seize on what both sides think could be a decisive moment in this campaign, using Wall Street as a way to focus attention on related concerns, like Social Security and health care.
 Campaigning on Saturday, Mr. Obama told several thousand supporters in Newport News, Va., that Mr. McCain's health care plan was outdated and had hidden tax increases that would erode companies' coverage for workers and leave millions of people uninsured.
 He called it an ''old Washington bait and switch,'' adding, ''He gives you a tax credit with one hand but raises your taxes with the other.'' 
 Mr. Obama is now running advertisements aimed at elderly voters in South Florida, Las Vegas and Reno, Nev., invoking the Wall Street crisis in criticizing Mr. McCain's support for allowing individuals to choose to invest part of their payroll taxes in stocks and bonds as an alternative to Social Security. The advertisements assert that the approach will ''gamble with your life savings.'' (That claim has been described by independent monitoring organizations as deceptive.)
 In Florida, voters will begin receiving mailings from Mr. Obama on Monday warning about what they describe as a McCain plan to tax health care benefits ''for the first time ever.'' A new advertisement released on Friday, using clips from the vice-presidential debate on Thursday night, makes the same attack on Mr. McCain. In Nevada, advertisements are geared toward the mortgage crisis in a state that has one of the highest foreclosure rates in the country.
 In Virginia, voters stung by fuel costs received a brochure saying, ''While you're running on empty, Exxon made $4 billion in one month,'' pointing out that Mr. McCain promised tax breaks to oil companies. (The tax cuts are not specifically for oil companies but are part of a broader proposal to reduce corporate tax rates, including those for alternative energy companies.)
 It is health care, advisers said, that they believe resonates more than other issues for Americans who are worried about their economic condition. It is a less-threatening way to talk about the economy -- showing pictures of shuttered banks, for example, could create more worry -- that aides said tested well across demographic groups, but particularly among older voters who have been slower to warm to Mr. Obama.
 ''One of the biggest economic anxieties that people have is the cost of health care,'' said Gov. James E. Doyle of Wisconsin, a Democrat in a state where Mr. McCain is making a strong challenge to Mr. Obama. ''There is a great deal of uneasiness.''
 Mr. McCain's advisers said that more than anything, it was the bad economy in Michigan, staggered by declining sales of American-made automobiles, that convinced them they had no hope of winning a state that once had been high on their list of targets. Beyond that, they said the Wall Street downturn was hurting Mr. McCain in Florida -- where the mortgage crisis has been particularly acute -- a state where they were once confident that they could hold off Mr. Obama.
 Mr. Obama opted out of the federal campaign finance system, which limits spending to $84.1 million, in the belief that he would be able to raise far more than that and outspend Mr. McCain. 
 Mr. Obama has used his cash advantage both to expand the size of the campaign field -- it seems a good bet that Mr. Obama would not be spending money in Missouri if he had an $84.1 million limit -- but also to outspend Mr. McCain in battleground states. In Florida over the past two weeks, Mr. Obama has spent $5.3 million on television, compared with just under $1.1 million by Mr. McCain, said Evan Tracey, the head of CMAG, a company that monitors political advertising.
 Mr. Tracey said Mr. Obama had been steadily increasing his national television advertising budget by 20 percent each week this fall.
 Mr. Obama is making a sustained effort to capture from the Republican column Colorado, Florida, Indiana, Iowa, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia. He is putting effort into Missouri and Montana, and though those seem like longer shots, Mr. McCain campaigned in Missouri last week, and Republicans are buying advertising time there.
 ''That is a lot of defense that John McCain is going to have to play,'' said David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's campaign manager. 
 Of the four Democratic states where Mr. McCain is competing, his aides said he viewed Pennsylvania -- the biggest of them -- as offering him the best chance. Mr. Obama lost the Democratic primary there to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 Robert A. Gleason Jr., the state's Republican chairman, said that recent polls suggesting that Mr. Obama was building a lead were misleading, noting that the state was filled with the kind of blue-collar voters with whom Mr. Obama has struggled for much of the year to connect. ''Obama is not catching on here,'' Mr. Gleason said. 
 Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat, did not dispute Mr. Gleason's suggestion that Mr. Obama was not as strong in that state as some polls suggested. ''I think they know they have catch-up to do here,'' Mr. Rendell said. ''Senator McCain has been here 17 times since June.''
 Mr. Obama's campaign said that he had been there seven times since the end of the primary season, June 3.
 Mr. Rendell said an unusually long one-minute advertisement Mr. Obama produced, which showed him talking directly into the camera about the economic crisis, was one reason polls were showing increasing strength for Mr. Obama in the state.
 The McCain campaign's announcement that it was pulling out of Michigan -- the kind of news that can be dispiriting to supporters and contributors -- reflects the period the campaign has entered, when it is difficult if not impossible to do the kind of feints and bluffs about where the candidate is playing. (For a while, Mr. Obama's aides claimed he would be competing in Georgia and even spent some money there before pulling out over the summer.)
 With limited time and money left, it now becomes quickly apparent when a candidate takes down his television advertisements or cancels a campaign trip, as Mr. McCain did to Michigan this week. Mr. McCain's associates said they put the news out on the day of the vice-presidential debate in hopes of minimizing attention to it, though inevitably, it fed the perception that Mr. McCain's campaign was going through a difficult stretch.
 Yet in a sign of how closely contested the campaign remains, both Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama have sent people and money into Maine and Nebraska, two states where electoral votes are split, to try to peel off a single electoral vote, with Mr. Obama hoping to pick up one in a particular region of Nebraska, which is otherwise reliably Republican, while Mr. McCain is trying the same thing in Maine, which has gone Democratic in recent presidential elections. 
 That is not a fanciful battle: There are plausible outcomes that would leave the two men with a 269-269 electoral vote tie, forcing the election into the House of Representatives.
 Mr. McCain sent workers from Michigan to Maine, focusing specifically on the state's rural 2nd Congressional District. And Mr. Obama has added an office filled with organizers in Nebraska's 2nd Congressional District, which includes Omaha, where a large voter registration drive has been under way for weeks.
 ''I think we've got a shot at that,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview in the summer about the Nebraska vote. ''Wouldn't that be fun?''

GRAPHIC: CHART: WITH A MONTH TO GO: As economic news worsened, the electoral map shifted in Senator Barack Obama's favor in September. Since Aug. 31, Mr. Obama has gained ground on Senator John McCain in Florida, Michigan and New Mexico. (Sources: TNS Media Intelligence/CMAG (spending on television advertising)) (pg.A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



226 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; VICE PRESIDENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: The Heartbeat Job

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
-- The vice presidency, a constitutional afterthought and for most of its history little more than a V.I.P. parking spot, has evolved tremendously since Nelson A. Rockefeller derided its occupant -- for a brief unhappy time, himself -- as ''standby equipment.''
 Three decades after Mr. Rockefeller departed the office, Dick Cheney has transformed it into a veritable fourth branch of government. Mr. Cheney pursued his agenda across a broad range of policy, including the war in Iraq, treatment of suspected terrorists, domestic surveillance, energy and the environment. His authority at times seemed to eclipse that of President Bush. 
 Scholars and officials who study the office say that, in light of the power of recent vice presidents and the centralization of power in the White House, it is not enough to ask if a candidate for the office is qualified to be president. Voters must assess if he or she can handle being vice president.
 In the vice-presidential debate Thursday night, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat, and Gov. Sarah Palin, the Republican from Alaska, were asked about the responsibilities of the vice president and how they would carry them out.
 Mr. Biden said the sole constitutional power of the vice president is to preside over the Senate and cast a vote in the event of a tie. Mr. Biden said his understanding with Senator Barack Obama was that he would act as a senior minister without portfolio and liaison to Congress.
 He called Mr. Cheney's project to expand the power of the executive -- and of his own office -- ''very dangerous.''
 Ms. Palin did not answer a direct question about Mr. Cheney's interpretation of the powers of his office, and did not seem entirely clear on what she thinks the job entails. She said that the Constitution gave great ''flexibility'' to the vice president, and that she hoped to be given even more authority. ''And we will do what is best for the American people in tapping into that position and ushering in an agenda that is supportive and cooperative with the president's agenda in that position,'' she said. 
 Governor Palin said that Senator John McCain had asked her, if they won the White House, to oversee energy policy, government reform and programs for families with children with special needs.
 The next president will face challenges probably not equaled since Franklin Roosevelt took the oath in 1933. Two wars, an economy in crisis, an energy emergency, destructive partisanship, frayed alliances overseas -- all add up to a burden that will be tough for any new president to tackle alone.
 ''There are so many incoming missiles that the president is really going to need help no matter how he structures his presidency,'' said Joel K. Goldstein, a law professor at St. Louis University and author of ''The Modern American Vice Presidency: The Transformation of a Political Institution.'' ''Yes, we need to know whether the vice president is ready to occupy the highest office, can handle a crisis and be trusted with the nuclear codes. But, equally important, do they have something to offer that will be meaningful in helping the next administration succeed?''
 Mr. Goldstein said the ascendancy of the office began with Walter Mondale, who secured a central role as adviser. Jimmy Carter gave him a West Wing office, an autonomous staff and access to all key meetings, perks that have gone to succeeding vice presidents.
 Mr. Mondale said in an interview Friday that his role grew from talks he had with Mr. Carter before joining the ticket. He did not want to run any program but to be a freelance adviser with only one client -- the president. ''I didn't want to do something someone else is doing, but to help the president on big issues and stay up to speed to be of help when needed,'' he said.
 Mr. Mondale said that Mr. Cheney took the office that he had modernized and ''really went off the rails,'' with blowups over wiretapping, torture and the leaking of the name of a C.I.A. employee, Valerie Plame. ''This is a real issue that should have been debated last night,'' he said.
 Mr. Cheney has said that a vice president's authority derives solely from the Constitution and his relationship with the president. His spokeswoman, Lea Anne Foster, strongly denied that he had overstepped the law or Constitution in the performance of his duties.
 Vice presidents after Mr. Mondale were given wider scope than those who came before. President Clinton entrusted Al Gore with the chore of streamlining government and overseeing global warming policy. He also carried a substantial foreign affairs portfolio. 
 Dan Quayle had a lesser role but kept the West Wing office and met regularly with the first President Bush. He spent much of his time on goodwill missions, raising money and chairing panels on the economy and space.
 Mr. Cheney has taken the office to a new level. He honed his bureaucratic skills as White House chief of staff under Gerald Ford, and during 10 years in Congress and 4 as defense secretary under the first President Bush. When he returned to the White House in 2001, he negotiated a broad brief from President George W. Bush.
 Two stories in a new book about Mr. Cheney illustrate how his view of the vice presidency has evolved.
 In 1989, George H. W. Bush was flying to Malta for a meeting with Soviet leaders when Philippine military officers attempted a coup. Mr. Quayle assembled the National Security Council to consider a response. Mr. Cheney, then secretary of defense, refused to attend because the vice president has no place in the military chain of command, according to an account in ''Angler: The Cheney Vice Presidency,'' by Barton Gellman of The Washington Post. 
 Mr. Quayle phoned Mr. Cheney to tell him the president had authorized a plan to send warplanes to the Philippines. Mr. Cheney said he would not scramble the fighters without a direct order from the president. He acted only after Mr. Bush issued the order.
 Twelve years later, on 9/11, now-Vice President Cheney ordered military aircraft to shoot down civilian airliners posing a threat to the capital. Mr. Gellman argues that he acted without direct authorization from the president.
 Mr. Quayle paid a courtesy call on Mr. Cheney shortly after Mr. Cheney took office to fill him in on some of the dreary aspects of the job, including foreign travel and political fund-raising. 
 Mr. Gellman writes that Mr. Cheney cocked an eyebrow and said, ''I have a different understanding with the president.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN THE WINGS: Dick Cheney, rear, at a 2004 presidential news conference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); CHILDREN (68%); FAMILY (67%); TERRORISM (55%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (89%); SARAH PALIN (78%); JOE BIDEN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



227 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Olmert's Change of Heart About Israel and the Palestinians

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Olmert Says Israel Must Leave West Bank'' (news article, Sept. 30) and ''As Holy Days Mix in Old City, So Do Wary Jews and Muslims'' (Jerusalem Journal, front page, Sept. 29): 
 Apparently imbued with the spirit of the Jewish High Holy Days, which obligate Jews to engage in introspection and repentance, the departing Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert, has had a change of heart. 
 After, in his words, supporting the Israeli occupation and settlement of Palestinian lands for 35 years, Mr. Olmert now says that he ''was unwilling to look at reality in all its depth.'' 
 Mr. Olmert has thus come to the same conclusion that those of us in the Jewish peace camp have been espousing for nearly four decades: that Israeli security ultimately rests upon reaching a historic compromise with the Palestinian people, not in ruling over them, and that the brutal policies of home demolitions, torture, assassinations and economic strangulation were insults to Israeli democracy as well as violations of centuries of Jewish ethical teachings.
 Jacob Bender New York, Sept. 30, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Your articles present the dissonance between the reality of Jerusalem and the pronouncements about Jerusalem by some politicians and citizens. 
 The latter speak of the need to re-divide Jerusalem for the sake of a peace agreement between Israelis and Palestinians more and more often. 
 But it is only in the past 41 years, since the holy city's reunification, that Jews, Muslims and Christians have been able to freely move about the city and worship at their holy sites. 
 If sectors of Jerusalem are divided again, recent history and current events tell us that this will return us to a time in which the city cannot be shared in holy seasons, and will be an embodiment of antipathy between faiths as opposed to the unifying force it is today.
 Nathan Diament Washington, Sept. 30, 2008
 The writer is the director of public policy for the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); WRITERS (73%); ETHICS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%) ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



228 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Meanwhile, in the Economy

 BODY:
After the Senate approved the $700 billion bank bailout, the majority leader, Harry Reid, tried to persuade his colleagues to address another economic calamity before they left town for the long election recess. He urged them to extend unemployment benefits for 800,000 jobless Americans. 
 In the face of Republican opposition, the measure failed. Benefits start expiring this week. So much for Main Street.
 If it works as promised, the bailout will thaw the credit freeze and keep more banks from going under. But it is unlikely to save even more Americans from losing their jobs and homes. 
 The Labor Department reported on Friday that 159,000 jobs were lost in September. That is the biggest monthly drop in five years and the ninth straight month of job contraction. It brings total job losses for this year to 760,000. 
 Of the 9.5 million Americans now out of work, two million have been jobless for more than six months. Nearly 6.1 million people are working part time because they cannot find full-time work or because slack business conditions have led to fewer hours -- and less pay. 
 Cutbacks in hours and pay are especially pernicious because for most of the Bush years, wage growth has lagged behind worker productivity and prices. As Americans have worked harder they have fallen further behind. The only good news -- if you can call it that -- was that credit was easy. 
 As a result, many Americans today have no savings and are deep in debt. That means they are even less prepared to take care of themselves and their families when they lose their jobs.
 Conditions are only getting worse. Personal spending stagnated in August, the latest month with government data. Auto sales plunged in September. Factory orders are off. New home sales fell to a 17-year low in August, according to the Census Bureau. And home prices continued to fall sharply in July, for a decline of 16.3 percent over 12 months, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index of prices in 20 major cities. There is no sign that prices have hit their bottom.
 Exports, the one bright spot, are also set to fall, because many other nations took part in America's financial follies and are now faltering as well. 
 All that weakness means that more Americans will lose their jobs in the months to come. Extending unemployment benefits is the least that Congress can do to help. The House overwhelmingly passed a bill to do that before it left Washington last week. The Senate must take the bill up as soon as it returns for its lame duck session. 
 There is a lot more work to do to fill in the gaps of the bailout bill. It does virtually nothing to prevent foreclosures and keep Americans in their homes. Congress must finally change the code to allow a bankruptcy court to reduce the size of bankrupt borrowers' mortgages. 
 A new stimulus bill must also be crafted. It must include bolstered food stamps and aid to states and cities, so that they can continue to provide health care and keep paying for construction and other projects that provide desperately needed jobs.
 The meltdown on Wall Street is only part of a larger meltdown, and the bailout bill is only one attempt at a fix. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); DISMISSALS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); CENSUS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (63%); FACTORY ORDERS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008



229 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: For Start-Ups, The I.P.O. Route Looks Rocky

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
For Start-Ups,
 The I.P.O. Route
 Looks Rocky
 Despite the dreary news for venture-backed start-ups hoping to go public, some venture capitalists are optimistically looking forward to the day the public markets open up again. But what will happen when the pipeline eventually does open? 
 If the United States is in a recession that lasts through 2009 and if the credit markets remain closed, only a high-profile company would be able to make its debut in 2010, said Scott Sweet, senior managing partner at I.P.O. Boutique, a research and advisory firm for individuals and hedge funds. However, he added, ''the I.P.O. market is highly dynamic and can change on a dime.''
 Venture investors who had planned to take companies in their portfolios public this year are left spending money and time keeping these mature companies alive, instead of investing in new start-ups. Many are raising small funds to add to their existing funds because they have realized they will need to spend much more on their current crop of start-ups than they had expected.
 MedVenture Associates, a medical technology venture firm, recently raised one of these annex funds. ''The markets shut down like this and you have to just go back to the well,'' said Annette Campbell-White, founder of MedVenture.
 Her firm had a company it hoped to take public this fall. When it could not, it considered taking debt, but the terms get worse every day, Ms. Campbell-White said. Instead, the company is raising money from insiders to stay alive, which will dilute MedVenture's stake.
 StarVest Partners, a New York firm that invests in Internet companies, is facing a similar challenge with a company that it had planned to take public this year. Instead, it is raising new capital in the hopes of going public in 2010.
 The start-up can use that time to grow, said Deborah Farrington, a StarVest co-founder. Meanwhile, she added, time is the enemy of returns. 
 CLAIRE CAIN MILLER 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



230 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Congress and Energy Policy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''One More Chance on Energy'' (editorial, Sept. 29): 
 Congress's direction on energy is more aptly characterized as full speed astern. 
 It isn't enough to lift the restrictions to allow exploration 50 miles from our coasts, since most of our resources lie closer to shore. The vast untapped oil and gas reserves along the Outer Continental Shelf represent a significant opportunity to reduce our dependence on Middle Eastern oil. 
 Two-thirds of Americans support offshore energy exploration, and ending the 26-year ban on development is an important step in the right direction.
 To grow and sustain a strong American economy, we need more energy from all sources, including renewables and alternatives. But raising taxes on oil and gas producers to sustain other energy sources that lack markets or infrastructure is simply robbing Peter to pay Paul. 
 American consumers will pay the price, however, as long as Congress continues to play politics with our energy policy.
 Charles T. Drevna President, National Petrochemical and Refiners Association Washington, Sept. 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (87%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); PETROCHEMICALS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



231 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: At Massage Office, Business Is a Chart Of Wall Street Nerves

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Relax. 
 In all of the English language, are there any two syllables more patronizing? Is any one word, when uttered, more likely to induce precisely the opposite of its meaning?
 Everyone wants to relax , but no one wants to be told to, unless it's by someone they have paid for that express purpose -- someone, for example, like Rick Sharpell, who owns Relax, a storefront on Greenwich Street where he has been offering massages for the past 11 years. 
 Call his business a spa, or, worse still, a massage parlor, and Mr. Sharpell, 48, will wince. ''I call it a massage office,'' he said, hinting perhaps at why he does brisk traffic among financial types, often drawing the kind of men who might shy away from waffle weave bathrobes and the gentle chants of Enya. In the reception area of Relax, there are no mini-Zen gardens or terry cloth spa slippers, just some Ansel Adams-inspired photography and a water cooler. The massage in which it specializes, too, is a high-powered form of deep-tissue therapy. 
 ''The businessmen I see tend more to medical massage,'' Mr. Sharpell explained on Sunday afternoon between appointments. ''I see a lot of squash players with one-sided body injuries.'' 
 Earnings reports, unemployment figures and the contentious debate over government bailouts all offer insights into the depth of our current economic crisis, but virtually anywhere you look -- why not a Greenwich Village massage office called Relax? -- yields clues, potentially just as useful, to the emotional and financial outlook of the city.
 Like the market itself, Mr. Sharpell said, the business has suddenly become extremely volatile. Selling stress release, one might expect to see bookings at a record high, if massage operated in a perfect world of supply and demand. Or he could be experiencing a major drop-off in Wall Streeters, who, one-sided body injuries or not, might count massage as one of the first luxury line items to go, along with extravagant time shares and weekly floral arrangements, when one's portfolio has sunk by 30 percent. 
 In fact, Mr. Sharpell and the massage therapists who work for him are seeing both. ''I would say I've lost 50 percent of my Wall Street clientele,'' said Christine Hagin, who started working at Relax in 2002. She wasn't feeling the hit, however -- for every financier who has dropped out, she said, another one has signed up. 
 So far, the financial turmoil has been a zero-sum game for Mr. Sharpell's bottom line. But the inefficiency of a suddenly unpredictable schedule is taking a toll. ''Usually, if I had a blank schedule two months ahead, I could do a fair job predicting how it was going to fill up: with whom, which days, which therapists,'' he said. ''Now I really don't know. It's all up in the air.'' 
 The schedule is still filling up, but at the last minute. ''I get a lot of people calling and saying, 'Can you fit me in in an hour?' '' he said. Normally, if the answer were no, clients would say they'd call ahead next time. Now people are pleading for special dispensations, to be squeezed in whatever the cost. ''When they call, there's an urgency,'' he said. ''But they don't want to plan ahead -- it's like they're waiting for some piece of information that's going to tell them something.'' 
 ''I seem to be getting a lot of calls at 4, 4:30,'' he added. ''Like something must happen on Wall Street around then?'' (At Relax, they are blissfully unaware of the closing bell a few miles south.)
 On Sunday, Dale McCormick, a 49-year-old stockbroker who lives in the West Village, left a 90-minute massage at Relax looking as if he had just woken from a nap. He has not increased his regular massage quota of one a month, but he is thinking about the standing appointment differently. ''Before it was a luxury,'' he said. ''Now you can look as it as 'I have to have it.' '' 
 It's as if the value of a $95-an-hour massage ($115 for Mr. Sharpell's more experienced hands) changes depending on where we are on the arc of stress. When money is flowing, Relax is a triumphant indulgence; when money is tight, so are the upper-shoulder muscles, and Relax becomes a necessity. Finally, when things are dire, no matter how nagging that back pain, Relax reverts to luxury.
 Before Bear Stearns collapsed this spring, a 50-something single woman who worked at the troubled firm entered Relax worried about her future. Like everyone else, Ms. Bear Stearns told him, she lived hand to mouth -- what would she do without a paycheck? Before she left, she scheduled an appointment for two weeks on. By then, her firm was history, and, sure enough, when Mr. Sharpell checked the book, the appointment was, as he put it, ''whited out.'' 
 One thing Mr. Sharpell never says to clients: Relax (unless it's followed by a direct object, like your shoulders or your neck). But he does try to take them outside their anxiety, if only for a brief respite. 
 ''The first thing I tell them,'' he said, ''is that for the next hour they don't have to worry about anything -- they're not responsible for anything. All they need to do is just chill out.''
 Whether it's true or not, they seem to like hearing it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Relax, no-frills massage for serious people. ''When they call, there's an urgency,'' said Rick Sharpell, the owner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MASSAGE SERVICES (92%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (76%); BAILOUTS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); RETAILERS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); SQUASH (70%); LUXURY GOODS (63%)

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



232 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Offers a Preview of Possible Economic Woes to Come

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Nate Schweber contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WHIPPANY, N.J. 

 BODY:
After several tumultuous weeks on Wall Street, New York City seems increasingly likely to fall into recession, many economists and analysts say. To get a sense of what that might look like, one need only cross the Hudson River.
 New Jersey's economy has already slipped into reverse. Its biggest employers have stopped hiring, and some have started firing. Its unemployment rate is rising fast, and the values of its houses are falling even faster. The state government is grappling with a projected budget shortfall of $1.7 billion, and some of its most affluent counties and towns are reducing services as tax revenue declines. 
 A state filled with suburbs, it has been struggling with the same problems that high fuel prices and a crumbling housing market have posed to broad swaths of the country. But its woes have been compounded by a series of cutbacks and mergers among the big drug-making companies that have formed one of the state's economic pillars. Now state and local officials are worrying about the wholesale restructuring of the financial services industry, which provides tens of thousands of high-paying jobs to New Jersey residents who commute to New York City and employs about 260,000 others in bank offices in Jersey City and on corporate campuses around the state. 
 ''On Main Street, a recession has long ago hit,'' Gov. Jon S. Corzine said after meeting with a group of business leaders last week. ''Our economy has a very strong bias toward the success of financial services, so that means that we are vulnerable.''
 Alarmed about the near-daily announcements of problems in the pharmaceutical and financial services industries, the State Assembly will hold hearings on Monday on bills that would provide tax breaks to businesses and financial relief to strapped homeowners. 
 The downturn has already upended a long period of prosperity in some affluent communities like the Whippany section of Hanover Township, in Morris County.
 Perched on a pink vinyl seat in the first booth of his roadside diner here, Gus Thermenos can hear and feel the financial fear gripping his customers. They stop in less often these days, he said, and when they do, they banter about pulling their savings out of the stock market and ask whether he plans to raise the prices of the comfort food offered on his plastic-coated menus. 
 ''People you used to see every night now come in only two, three nights a week,'' said Mr. Thermenos, 34, who has operated the diner for more than five years.
 A foursome of men who worked at the nearby campus of Bear Stearns had been lunchtime regulars, Mr. Thermenos said, gesturing toward an empty booth over his shoulder. But they stopped coming a few months ago, not long after Bear Stearns was rescued from near collapse by JPMorgan Chase & Company. 
 ''Three of them got laid off,'' he said.
 By several measures, New Jersey's economy is weaker than New York's. Employment in the state began tumbling several months ago, even as it continued to grow in New York, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. This year alone, New Jersey has lost nearly 7,000 jobs and its unemployment rate has risen to 5.9 percent, from 4.2 percent, according to the state labor department. 
 And while analysts at Moody's Economy.com say New Jersey fell into recession over the summer, New York has avoided it, so far.
 ''It really is difficult to point to other weaknesses in New York City's economy outside of what's going on on Wall Street,'' said Marisa DiNatale, a senior economist at Economy.com. ''North Jersey never saw the boom in finance that Manhattan did.''
 The plunging market for houses in New Jersey is an additional weight that has not been felt as deeply in the city, especially Manhattan, where apartment prices have only recently leveled off. Ms. DiNatale said prices of single-family homes in the suburbs surrounding the city, however, had dropped by 9 percent through the first half of this year, and she predicted they will have fallen by about 30 percent by next summer.
 New Jersey's mixture of high finance and big pharmaceutical companies, which once were its pride and joy, is threatening to put a double whammy on the state.
 With fewer blockbuster prescription medicines in their pipelines, drug makers have been consolidating and eliminating jobs. Last week, for instance, Pfizer said that it would stop developing drugs to treat heart disease. Changes like that are expected to disproportionately affect New Jersey, where the industry employs about 70,000 workers, including the senior executives of several of the world's biggest and most profitable pharmaceutical companies. 
 Schering-Plough, whose headquarters are in Kenilworth, is in the process of cutting 5,500 jobs, one-tenth of its total work force. Last month, it said that the layoffs would include 1,000 sales representatives. Ortho Biotech, a division of Johnson & Johnson, warned the state of plans to reorganize that could affect 550 jobs in Bridgewater.
 Still, the state's labor commissioner, David J. Socolow, said many workers who have lost jobs at big drug makers have found positions with smaller biotech companies. But he said that the state was facing serious problems from the downturn in the financial markets, the housing market, construction and related industries.
 Indeed, with the stalling of the residential building boom that has helped fuel New Jersey's economy since the mid-1990s, there are now almost 5,000 fewer construction jobs in the state than in August 2007. 
 Even the public sector has started to shrink as Governor Corzine wrestles with a revenue shortfall. His latest budget was smaller than the previous one by $600 million, and he has pledged to reduce the state's payroll by more than 2,000 workers. County and municipal officials are in similar straits. In Morris County, one of the wealthiest in the state, freeholders are considering laying off county workers, said Ronald F. Francioli, the mayor of Hanover Township. The town council he leads may have to do likewise, he said.
 ''This is probably the most difficult time for Hanover that I have ever seen,'' said Mr. Francioli, who has been mayor for 15 years. ''In the longer term, it's going to get worse for Hanover before it gets better. I don't think we're seeing the bottom of it yet.''
 Hanover, whose two sections are known as Whippany and Cedar Knolls, was already reeling from the loss of its biggest taxpayer. Lucent, a telecommunications company spun off from the AT&T Corporation and later bought by Alcatel of France, said in May that it would move out of its campus just around the bend from the Whippany Diner, Mr. Thermenos's place. 
 That news came as Bear Stearns, which had employed about 1,000 people in four unmarked buildings in a guarded complex, began transferring jobs to Delaware, Mr. Francioli said. Then, a few weeks ago, a third company that was a big taxpayer in town, Abbott Laboratories, notified local officials that it would be shutting a drug-making plant across the street from the town hall, he said.
 ''No. 1, No. 2, No. 3,'' Mr. Francioli said, ticking off the blows the town's budget would suffer. ''We're not feeling the full brunt of the impact yet. Hanover is holding its breath through 2008.''
 With a weak market for the town houses they planned to build and sell, developers are now seeking to switch to rental apartments, he said. And the town council is having to reconsider its steadfast aversion to big-box stores, like wholesale clubs, because that is one type of building still in demand.
 Morris County has more than enough office buildings. Its highways are lined with signs advertising blocks of space. Nearly one-fourth of its office space is vacant, some of it never having been occupied, according to Maggie Peters, executive director of the Morris County Economic Development Corporation.
 Ms. Peters said she feared that even more might empty out as financial companies responded to the sharp decline in their fortunes. ''Do I think Merrill Lynch is going to downsize or move? Yes, I do,'' she said. 
 But she added that other companies, even some from Wall Street, had been expanding in the county. ''We're seeing more downsizings but not as many as other places in New Jersey.''
 At the Whippany Diner, Mr. Thermenos is holding out hope for an economic rebound after the November election. His business usually picks up after the winter months, but this year it never did, he said. After he raised his prices in May, his customer count declined and he had to dismiss a couple of his workers, he said.
 With one young child and a second on the way, Mr. Thermenos was also fretting about the falling value of the house he bought in Hackettstown, about 20 miles west. After paying about $500,000 two years ago, he said, it was unsettling to see similar houses now being listed for $400,000 to $425,000.
 ''How could you know?'' Mr. Thermenos said. ''We didn't see this coming.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gus Thermenos, who owns the Whippany Diner, said his customers had expressed fears about their financial future. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MERGERS (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); FOOD PRICES (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); SUBURBS (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



233 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: The Long-Term Questions for Apple

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
The Long-Term Questions for Apple
 Apple investors freaked out last Monday, in part because two Wall Street analysts downgraded the stock. They are worried that margins will be compressed and sales of Mac computers and iPhones will be less than expected.
 Apple's shares fell $22.34, or 17.4 percent, to $105.90 last Monday. That compares with a 6.8 percent drop for Hewlett-Packard and a 6.4 percent fall for Dell. 
 How Apple handles the substantial turbulence among consumers is a major test of its strategy and momentum. When a company has had the kind of business success that Apple has enjoyed over the last five years, its stock certainly can drop like Wile E. Coyote after zooming off a cliff.
 But after the smoke clears, the bigger question is how special is Apple now? I suspect this depends on two main factors:
 First is Apple's ability to maintain the premium pricing of its computer and iPod lines. And second is its ability to morph the stagnant iPod business into more rapidly growing product lines.
 A recession represents a major peril for a premium brand. There's a temptation to cut prices to maintain sales. But sometimes it's better to let sales fall than to cheapen your image so much that the halo is lost when the market rebounds.
 One current in the wide river of Apple rumors has concerned a lower-price line of computers. Apple's premium in both desktops and laptops is so high that I suspect it can introduce new models at lower prices without looking like the bargain basement. 
 Apple's pricing for its new line of iPods shows a fair bit of confidence. It kept the $149 entry price for the Nano line, its most popular. It did drop the starting price for the Touch to $229 from $299, presumably in an effort to lure more people to step up to the more expensive model. Of course, there is no reason that Apple couldn't drop prices on a model or two before Thanksgiving if things were really slow.
 The future of the music, video and phone business is much harder to gauge. The growth of the stand-alone music player business is slowing. The iPhone has had a great start, but it is still unclear how big a business it can build for phones and other multifunction connected devices (like the Touch). Some people will still want stand-alone players; some will want all-in-one devices. We don't know the balance, but I assume that Apple's share of dedicated media players will always be higher than its share of phones.
 The other potential new market is for video in the living room. Because of its brand, Apple has as good a position as anyone in Internet-delivered video. So far, this hasn't been significant, but it still could be.
 All in all, if I were an Apple investor, I would be more concerned about how Apple reacts to the consumer slowdown that simply the fact that demand may be off somewhat. SAUL HANSELL
 COMMENTS
 Bring back Scully! Steve needs a break.
 -- Blog Boy, Sept. 30, 2:56 a.m.
 Apple seems to spur suspicion among people that I don't understand. They're a business, not a family friend or a buddy who will ''do you a solid'' for being a good customer.
 -- Doug Broussard, Sept. 30, 2:41 p.m.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers trying out iPods at an Apple store in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARBER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (88%); NEW PRODUCTS (87%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (75%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); MUSIC (60%); THANKSGIVING (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



234 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Equal Coverage for Mental and Physical Ailments Is Required in Bailout Law

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
More than one-third of all Americans will soon receive better insurance coverage for mental health treatments because of a new law that, for the first time, requires equal coverage of mental and physical illnesses.
 The requirement, included in the economic bailout bill that President Bush signed on Friday, is the result of 12 years of passionate advocacy by friends and relatives of people with mental illness and addiction disorders. They described the new law as a milestone in the quest for civil rights, an effort to end insurance discrimination and to reduce the stigma of mental illness.
 Most employers and group health plans provide less coverage for mental health care than for the treatment of physical conditions like cancer, heart disease or broken bones. They will need to adjust their benefits to comply with the new law, which requires equivalence, or parity, in the coverage. 
 For decades, insurers have set higher co-payments and deductibles and stricter limits on treatment for addiction and mental illnesses. 
 By wiping away such restrictions, doctors said, the new law will make it easier for people to obtain treatment for a wide range of conditions, including depression, autism, schizophrenia, eating disorders and alcohol and drug abuse.
 Frank B. McArdle, a health policy expert at Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm, said the law would force sweeping changes in the workplace.
 ''A large majority of health plans currently have limits on hospital inpatient days and outpatient visits for mental health treatments, but not for other treatments,'' Mr. McArdle said. ''They will have to change their plan design.''
 Federal officials said the law would improve coverage for 113 million people, including 82 million in employer-sponsored plans that are not subject to state regulation. The effective date, for most health plans, will be Jan. 1, 2010. 
 The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the new requirement will increase premiums by an average of about two-tenths of 1 percent. Businesses with 50 or fewer employees are exempt.
 The goal of mental health parity once seemed politically unrealistic but gained widespread support for several reasons:
 Researchers have found biological causes and effective treatments for numerous mental illnesses. 
 A number of companies now specialize in managing mental health benefits, making the costs to insurers and employers more affordable. The law allows these companies to continue managing benefits.
 Employers have found that productivity tends to increase after workers are treated for mental illnesses and drug or alcohol dependence. Such treatments can reduce the number of lost work days.
 The stigma of mental illness may have faded as people see members of the armed forces returning from Iraq and Afghanistan with serious mental problems.
 Parity has proved workable when tried at the state level and in the health insurance program for federal employees, including members of Congress.
 Dr. Steven E. Hyman, a former director of the National Institute of Mental Health, said it was impossible to justify insurance discrimination when an overwhelming body of scientific evidence showed that ''mental illnesses represent real diseases of the brain.''
 ''Genetic mutations and unlucky combinations of normal genes contribute to the risk of autism and schizophrenia,'' Dr. Hyman said. ''There is also strong evidence that people with schizophrenia have thinning of the gray matter in parts of the brain that permit us to control our thoughts and behavior.''
 The drive for mental health parity was led by Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, who has a daughter with schizophrenia, and Senator Paul Wellstone, the Minnesota Democrat who was killed in a plane crash in 2002. Mr. Wellstone had a brother with severe mental illness.
 Prominent members of both parties, including Betty Ford, Rosalynn Carter and Tipper Gore, pleaded with Congress to pass the legislation.
 Representatives Patrick J. Kennedy, Democrat of Rhode Island, and Jim Ramstad, Republican of Minnesota, led the fight in the House. Mr. Kennedy has been treated for depression and, by his own account, became ''the public face of alcoholism and addiction'' after a car crash on Capitol Hill in 2006. Mr. Ramstad traces his zeal to the day in 1981 when he woke up in a jail cell in South Dakota after an alcoholic blackout.
 The Senate passed a mental health parity bill in September 2007. The House passed a different version in March of this year. 
 A breakthrough occurred when sponsors of the House bill agreed to drop a provision that required insurers to cover treatment for any condition listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, published by the American Psychiatric Association. 
 Employers objected to such a requirement, saying it would have severely limited their discretion over what benefits to provide. Among the conditions in the manual, critics noted, are caffeine intoxication and sleep disorders resulting from jet lag.
 Doctors often complain that insurers, especially managed care companies, interfere in their treatment decisions. But doctors and mental health advocates cited the work of such companies in arguing that mental health parity would be affordable, because the benefits could be managed.
 Pamela B. Greenberg, president of the Association for Behavioral Health and Wellness, a trade group, said providers of mental health care typically drafted a treatment plan for each person. In complex cases, she said, a case manager or care coordinator monitors the patient's progress.
 A managed care company can refuse to pay for care, on the grounds that it is not medically necessary or ''clinically appropriate.'' But under the new law, insurers must disclose their criteria for determining medical necessity, as well as the reason for denying any particular claim for mental health services.
 Andrew Sperling, a lobbyist at the National Alliance on Mental Illness, an advocacy group, said, ''Under the new law, we will probably see more aggressive management of mental health benefits because insurers can no longer impose arbitrary limits.''
 The law will also encourage insurers to integrate coverage for mental health care with medical and surgical benefits. Under the law, insurers cannot have separate cost-sharing requirements or treatment limits that apply only to mental illness and addiction disorders.
 The law comes just three months after Congress eliminated discriminatory co-payments in Medicare, the program for people who are 65 and older or disabled.
 Medicare beneficiaries pay 20 percent of the government-approved amount for most doctors' services but 50 percent for outpatient mental health services. The co-payment for mental health care will be gradually reduced to 20 percent over six years.
 The mental health parity law was forged in a highly unusual consensus-building process. For years, mental health advocates had been lobbying on the issue.
 Insurers and employers, which had resisted earlier versions of the legislation, came to the table in 2004 at the request of Mr. Domenici and Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Michael B. Enzi, Republican of Wyoming.
 Each side had, in effect, a veto over the language of any bill. Insurers and employers, seeing broad bipartisan support for the goal in both houses of Congress, decided to work with mental health advocates. Each side gained the other's trust.
 ''It was an incredible process,'' said E. Neil Trautwein, a vice president of the National Retail Federation, a trade group. ''We built the bill piece by piece from the ground up. It's a good harbinger for future efforts on health care reform.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Patrick J. Kennedy, speaking at a rally last March on Capitol Hill, was joined by other House members, including Steny H. Hoyer, second from left, and Nancy Pelosi, far right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (93%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); CANCER (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DEPRESSION (78%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); EATING DISORDERS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); HEART DISEASE (72%); AUTISM (71%); BONE FRACTURES (69%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (83%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); STENY HOYER (57%); PATRICK J KENNEDY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



235 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: In a Weak Climate, the Dollar Has Surprising Muscle

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Stock markets are swooning, credit markets remain frozen, and some foreign officials are predicting that the United States will lose its status as a financial superpower. And yet the dollar -- the most visible symbol of America's financial might -- is surging.
 Last week, the dollar rose to its highest level in more than a year against the euro, the Canadian dollar and several other currencies. It rose even after the Bush administration's rescue plan for banks had initially foundered in Congress and even in the wake of a dismal employment report on Friday. 
 The dollar's surge seems counterintuitive. Previous financial panics -- in Asia, Russia and Mexico -- devastated the local currencies, as foreign investors stampeded for the door. The Thai baht, the Russian ruble and the Mexican peso were reliable barometers of confidence of foreigners in those emerging markets. As confidence crumbled, their exchange rates did, too.
 But the dollar is not like any other tender. As the de facto reserve currency of the world, it benefits from global upheaval, even those that originate in the United States. 
 ''It's ironic, given that we just messed up big time, the response of foreigners is to pour more money into us,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, an economics professor at Harvard. ''They're not sure where else to go.''
 On Sept. 17, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers sent stock markets around the world reeling, foreign investors rushed to buy Treasury bills, driving down the yield to nearly zero. That reflected the fact that investors were flocking to the safety of the United States government, even if it meant their investments would lose money when adjusted for inflation. 
 Indeed, the appeal of the United States reflects a lack of better options. Much has been made over the last few years about the rise of the euro as a rival to the dollar. But Europe hardly looks like a safe bet now, with its own crisis metastasizing. 
 And unlike Americans, Europeans have not fashioned a coordinated response to the financial problems, despite a meeting of leaders over the weekend convened by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.
 Japan's banks are far more stable than those in the United States or Europe, which has made the yen the only major currency to rise in value against the dollar in recent weeks. But Japan, and Asia as a whole, is weakening, along with the global economy.
 ''It's like the world is full of sick people,'' said Ashraf Laidi, the chief currency analyst at CMC Markets, a trading firm. ''The U.S. was the first to check into the hospital, and went into intensive care. But then other countries started to feel the chill, and now they're checking into the hospital.''
 Currency traders, Mr. Laidi said, are betting that because the United States was the first to falter, it will be the first to recover. That perception has gained ground with the mounting problems in Europe, where more banks are failing by the day, and Germany and Ireland have guaranteed all deposits in an effort to stave off bank runs.
 The dollar has also been propped up the Federal Reserve, which has set up a network of currency swaps with the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan, the Bank of England and other central banks to supply dollars to foreign banks. Acting on an unprecedented scale, the Fed expanded these swap lines by $330 billion, to $620 billion.
 The resilience of the dollar amid such turmoil is more than an economic novelty. As long as it retains its value, the dollar's strength makes it easier for the United States to finance the $700 billion bailout, because the cash will come from bonds sold largely to foreign investors.
 A rising currency also stems inflation -- a major preoccupation of the Fed before the latest crisis. Less inflation would make it easier for the Fed to lower interest rates, something the bank is now considering. 
 But a stronger dollar has a downside: it makes American exports more expensive in foreign markets, which could damp one of the few parts of the American economic engine that is still humming.
 The dollar's greatest value, experts said, is as a symbol of the long-term creditworthiness of the United States. Its stability suggests that the United States is still viewed as a safer risk.
 ''In talking to investors, policy makers and academics around the world, they have this confidence, not just in our economic system, but in our political system,'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''They seem to have more confidence in our ability to solve our problems than we do.''
 That confidence is not boundless, of course. If foreigners were finally to lose faith, experts said, they would seek to sell their American debt, the dollar would tumble and the cost of the bailout would increase.
 ''We are in charge of the global currency, and if we make a hash out of that, there will be near- and long-term consequences,'' said Edwin M. Truman, a former Treasury department official.
 Mr. Truman just completed an overseas tour, during which he said foreign officials expressed bafflement to him about the political chaos in Washington. But he said that when he stopped at the Reserve Bank of Australia, he found no sense of panic about the dollar.
 Before this crisis entered its latest phase, with the bailout of Bear Stearns in March, the dollar had been on a long slide against the euro and other currencies. That reflected foreign concerns about the deteriorating American economy and the huge trade deficit.
 When the crisis ebbs, investors will focus on those issues again, and the dollar will resume its downward course, Mr. Laidi predicted. Even if the bailout succeeds in calming the market, it will greatly expand the debt of the United States -- a perennial cause of weakness in the dollar.
 For now, though, the global crisis remains a tonic for the currency of the country where it began.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The dollar's greatest value, experts say, is as a symbol of the long-term creditworthiness of the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUNG YEON-JE/AGENCE FRANCE PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) CHART: A STRENGHTENING DOLLAR: The value of one dollar, in euros. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EURO (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



236 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Mailing Our Way to Solvency

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LIND. 
Michael Lind is a fellow at the New America Foundation, where he directs the American Infrastructure Initiative.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 AMERICA'S financial landscape is changing before our eyes. The absorption of major Wall Street investment banks by commercial banks threatens to create colossal universal banks that are too big to fail and might need to be bailed out in the future. Meanwhile, the structure of public and private finance in the United States chronically fails to address four problems: the almost 10 percent of Americans without a bank account; the concerns of all Americans about the security of their savings; the growing indebtedness of the country to foreign governments and financial institutions; and underinvestment in public assets like sewer systems and bridges. 
 These four problems may seem unrelated. But they can be addressed in the United States, as they have been in similar countries, by a single institution that is at once new and old: the postal savings bank. 
 Britain created the first postal savings bank in 1861, and by the early 20th century many other nations had postal savings bank systems. The details vary among countries, but the idea is simple: use the one government institution that can be found in most neighborhoods and rural areas -- the post office -- to encourage small savings and a habit of thrift.
 Well, we don't do things that way in America, you might object. On the contrary -- we did! In 1910, Congress created a postal savings system. The Post Office offered small savings accounts to individual Americans. The system boomed during the Depression and World War II, with a balance of more than $3 billion in 1947 -- almost $30 billion in today's dollars. 
 But F.D.I.C. insurance of private bank accounts removed the advantage of security from the postal savings system, and its fixed 2 percent interest rate was uncompetitive. By 1966, deposits had fallen to $344 million (still more than $2 billion when adjusted for inflation) and Congress voted to abolish the system. 
 A new postal savings system should be part of America's post-meltdown financial architecture. When Congress created the postal savings system nearly a century ago, one of its goals was to encourage savings among the large number of low-income immigrants. A new system would help today's immigrants as well as the native poor. Banks are not interested in people with so little money, many of whom are preyed upon by payday lenders and credit card companies. 
 A postal bank could also supply middle-class and affluent Americans with an extra layer of financial security. The accounts would be limited to a small amount per person. They would provide a government-guaranteed, low-risk, low-return investment, even for those who put most of their financial assets in conventional bank accounts and the stock market. 
 Non-Western countries like Japan and India have used postal savings systems to reduce their economic dependence on foreign investors. What better way to reduce the dependence of the United States on Asian banks and petrostate sovereign wealth funds than a system that pools the modest savings of ordinary Americans to pay down the national debt?
 A revived postal savings bank, in addition to holding much of the national debt, could provide a purely domestic source of savings that could be tapped by a national infrastructure bank. There is growing support for such a government-chartered institution, which could borrow money to modernize roads, power grids and sewage systems; according to one estimate, we need $1.6 trillion over five years. That money is unlikely to come from Congress. 
 Japan's postal savings bank, privatized during the heyday of market fundamentalism a few years ago, was criticized because it encouraged too much saving and too much investment in infrastructure. If only the United States had such problems!
 When the financial crisis has passed, Americans will need to rebuild our financial system. A new postal savings system should be part of the plan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); CREDIT CARDS (64%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (53%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



237 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People, Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 SunTrust, Atlanta, named Mullen, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to handle its creative, media and digital accounts, with combined spending estimated at $50 million. Those assignments had been at units of the WPP Group: Y&R, for creative; Maxus, for media; and VML, for digital. The Wenham, Mass., and Winston-Salem, N.C., offices of Mullen will work on the SunTrust accounts. 
 The Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Plano, Tex., expanded its relationship with Deutsch, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, by awarding the agency's Marina del Rey, Calif., office the creative duties for Snapple. The assignment had been at Cliff Freeman & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners. Spending was estimated at $25 million. The Deutsch office already creates campaigns for Dr Pepper. The Deutsch headquarters office in New York was the Snapple creative agency from 1997 to 2004.
 Johnsonville Sausage, Sheboygan Falls, Wis., named the Milwaukee office of Cramer-Krasselt to handle its creative account, which had been at Preston Kelly, Minneapolis. Spending was estimated at $20 million.
 People
 John Berg joined the San Francisco office of Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of the WPP Group, as president and chief executive. He succeeds Penny Baldwin, who is leaving to spend more time with her family, the agency said. Mr. Berg had been president at the New York office of Taxi.
 Miscellany
 Two companies that specialize in media outside the home are merging to form Outcast, based in Santa Monica, Calif. They are Bhootan, which reaches consumers in stores and restaurants, and Fuelcast, which reaches them at pumps at gasoline stations. John H. McLean, chief executive at Fuelcast, becomes chairman at Outcast and Matthew Stoudt, chief executive at Bhootan, becomes chief executive at Outcast. Also, Nathan Gill, president at Bhootan, becomes chief media officer at Outcast. 
 Dieste Harmel & Partners, Dallas, part of the Omnicom Group, was renamed Dieste.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); RESTAURANTS (64%); GAS STATIONS (64%); RETAILERS (64%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (95%); WPP PLC (85%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); CLIFF FREEMAN & PARTNERS (57%); DR PEPPER SNAPPLE GROUP INC (57%); CRAMER-KRASSELT CO (57%); MDC PARTNERS INC (56%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (95%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (85%); WPP (LSE) (85%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); DPS (NYSE) (57%); MDZ.A (TSX) (56%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (85%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (85%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (57%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (76%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



238 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Full of Doubts, U.S. Shoppers Cut Spending

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE, ANDREW MARTIN and STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM; Tim Arango, Karen Ann Cullotta, Laurie J. Flynn, Clifford Krauss, Christopher Maag, John Markoff, Joe Sharkey and Bill Vlasic contributed reporting.. 
Raul Trejo Mechanic at Lattof Chevrolet, which is closing

 BODY:
This article is by Louis Uchitelle, Andrew Martin and Stephanie Rosenbloom. 
 Cowed by the financial crisis, American consumers are pulling back on their spending, all but guaranteeing that the economic situation will get worse before it gets better. 
 In response to the falling value of their homes and high gasoline prices, Americans have become more frugal all year. But in recent weeks, as the financial crisis reverberated from Wall Street to Washington, consumers appear to have cut back sharply. Even with the government beginning a giant bailout of the financial system, their confidence may have been too shaken for them to resume their free-spending ways any time soon.
 Recent figures from companies, and interviews across the country, show that automobile sales are plummeting, airline traffic is dropping, restaurant chains are struggling to fill tables, customers are sparse in stores. 
 When the final tally is in, consumer spending for the quarter just ended will almost certainly shrink, the first quarterly decline in nearly two decades. Many economists, who began the third quarter expecting modest growth, now believe the cutbacks are so severe that the overall economy did not expand either, and they warn that a consumer-led recession could be more severe than the relatively mild one earlier this decade. 
 ''The last few days have devastated the American consumer,'' said Walter Loeb, president of Loeb Associates, a consultancy, who said he worried that the constant drumbeat of negative news about the economy was becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy. ''They all feel poor.''
 For some Americans, the pain is already acute: jobs disappeared at a faster clip in September. For many others, day-to-day finances are fine for now, but the financial outlook is uncertain: 401(k) accounts are dwindling, loans are hard to get and house prices continue to fall. 
 Claudia Prindiville, a 41-year-old mother of three, is among those feeling anxious. Shopping at a Talbots store in Chicago's northwest suburbs, she said her own family's finances had not yet suffered. Still, she pulled out a coupon to buy a two-piece sweatsuit, and at The Children's Place she bought pants and shirts from the sale rack.
 ''All the talk about how bad it is out there has started getting in my head,'' she said. ''I still need to shop for my kids' school clothes, but I am definitely buying less for myself.''
 Consumer spending, which accounts for nearly two-thirds of the economy, grew modestly earlier in the year but fell in July and August on an annualized rate. When the government releases quarterly numbers this month, they are expected to show that consumer spending shrank 3 percent or more. That would be the first quarterly decline since 1990, ahead of the 1991 recession, and the steepest since 1981.
 According to interviews with shoppers, analysts and company executives, the impact of the financial news of the last two weeks has been palpable in many corners of the country, from car dealerships, which endured the worst month for sales in 15 years, to the flashy casinos of Las Vegas, where spending at luxury restaurants and stores and at gambling tables has gone from bad to worse.
 ''In the last few days, there has been a huge drop-off in foot traffic and almost zero sales,'' said Gil Colon, sales manager at Villa Reale, a high-end art and furniture store in Las Vegas, who has laid off five sales people in the last five months, leaving three. 
 ''People have lost their confidence. They have no buying power. They are losing their retirements, their vacation funds, and they are scared to commit to buying anything,'' he said.
 The picture is just as grim at suburban malls and city boutiques, where traffic is disappearing as retailers brace for what many predict will be a dismal holiday shopping season. Some have responded by reducing the number of sales people or their hours.
 Taking a break outside an Office Depot store in suburban Chicago, Dave Cargerman, a 25-year-old sales clerk, said his hours had been cut back. ''We got killed during the back-to-school sales,'' Mr. Cargerman said. ''And that time of year is usually our bread and butter.''
 Nearby, employees at Lattof Chevrolet were preparing to close the doors this month on a business that opened in 1936. It may not be the last dealership to go: the percentage of people saying they expect to buy a car in the next six months, on a three-month moving average, has fallen to 5 percent, the lowest figure since the Conference Board started asking about such plans in its consumer confidence survey, in 1967.
 ''We're not selling S.U.V.'s and trucks at all,'' said Raul Trejo, 24, a mechanic. ''We saw it coming.''
 The situation is so uncertain that some retailers are simply not even trying to estimate their sales. Pier 1 Imports and Circuit City stores recently withdrew their guidance to Wall Street about earnings and said they would not offer any more predictions this year.
 At a retail conference in New York on Thursday, Michael W. Rayden, chairman and chief executive of Tween Brands, which owns the Limited Too and Justice chains, spoke about consumer fears. ''As I travel around the country and listen to moms and little girls, it is amazing how much even these 10-year-old girls are aware that something is going on,'' he said. ''Mom is saying, 'I can't afford that.' ''
 Even Apple, maker of the iPhone, is not immune as concerns mount about consumer electronics. The stock of Apple ended the week down 19 percent after two stock analysts suggested that the rapid cooldown in consumer spending would put an end to the company's hot sales streak. 
 Casual dining restaurants, which have struggled in recent years because of a glut of restaurants and higher-quality fare at fast-food chains, have taken a beating already this year, forcing the Bennigan's chain to close and leaving several others struggling. ''I think September could be the worst month of the year, and we've had a lot of bad months,'' said Lynne Collier, an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets who covers the restaurant industry. 
 At a Chili's Grill & Bar in the Arlington Heights suburb of Chicago, Nichol Bedsole, a 23-year-old salon manager, said she used to eat at places like Chili's at least once a week but no longer does.
 ''Now it's more like twice a month, and it's somewhere cheap, like Subway,'' she said. ''I have a lot of bills to pay.''
 Consumers are cutting back on air travel, whether for business or pleasure. Passenger volume is dwindling even faster than airlines can sideline planes and cut poorly performing routes. At American Airlines, domestic passengers flew 11.7 percent fewer miles in September, while the airline cut 9.4 percent of domestic seats.
 The consumer slowdown in recent weeks comes after spending drops in July and August, when tax rebates came to an end. The financial shocks on Wall Street accelerated the decline, along with limits on consumer credit imposed by some banks.
 ''Consumers have become quite concerned that the recession, which they think is already under way, will last longer than they anticipated and will be deeper,'' said Richard Curtin, director of the Reuters-University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers, describing the most recent poll. ''They see their worst fears coming true.''
 In addition, household net worth, which greases spending, fell $6 trillion over the last year, with $1 trillion of that in just the last four weeks, said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com.
 Less than a month ago, Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight, a forecasting service, predicted that domestic economic output would rise 1.2 percent in the third quarter. ''At the moment I'm running close to zero,'' he said, ''and maybe a negative.'' 
 Of course, the economic malaise has not yet hurt all businesses. It has even been good for some.
 Entertainment and media executives remain optimistic about sales of movie tickets, DVDs and games. At Nintendo of America, the popular Wii video game consoles are still selling briskly at about $300.
 ''My view is that when consumers get concerned about their nest egg, or their country, they need entertainment,'' said Bo Andersen, president and chief executive of the Entertainment Merchants Association, which represents distributors and retailers of home entertainment products. 
 And as fewer people eat at restaurants, food is flying off the shelves at grocery stores. David Driscoll, a stock analyst for Citigroup, said the shares of big food companies have risen about 17 percent this year. By contrast, he said, the restaurant sector is down 4 percent. 
 ''The alternative of restaurants is buying groceries and eating at home,'' he said, ''and right now, that's an attractive alternative.''
 Daniel Kimble, 31, was putting Mr. Driscoll's theory into practice on Friday. An independent trucker from Oklahoma, he stopped his rig outside a Wal-Mart in Cleveland on his way to a nearby factory.
 Mr. Kimble ticked off a long list of his money-saving steps, from driving his pickup truck less to using less laundry detergent to buying fewer clothes. And he has stopped eating at restaurants on the road, which is why he was parked at Wal-Mart.
 ''I'm going in to buy some lunch meat and some bread, whatever's cheap,'' he said. ''I've got to save money, you know?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RAUL TREJO: Mechanic at Lattof Chevrolet, which is closing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Daniel Kimble, a trucker from Oklahoma, said he had stopped eating at restaurants on the road, buying groceries instead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) CHART: CLOSING THEIR WALLETS: Consumer spending, which was already anemic in recent quarters, almost certainly declined in the third quarter. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis, via Moody's Economy.com
 National Bureau of Economic Research) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); STATISTICS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); US 401K PLANS (63%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



239 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Got Its Bailout

 BODY:
While the White House and Congress have been embroiled in negotiations over the $700 billion bailout of the nation's bedraggled banks, another bailout of sorts passed Congress just under the radar: $25 billion in subsidized loans for Detroit's bedraggled automakers. 
 The burst of government generosity last week inspires two thoughts. There is a long list of troubled industries that could easily put government billions to good use. But public finances are looking more stretched with each passing bailout. So it is probably a good idea for Congress, and the administration, to refrain from giving another big chunk of the corporate sector more money, at least for the time being. 
 Moreover, while the money is ostensibly meant to further the cause of fuel efficiency, we fear Detroit's automakers will be tempted to put it to other uses. The Department of Energy, which is in charge of writing detailed criteria for car companies to get the loans, should include a provision for strict oversight of the program to ensure that the money is not diverted to other purposes. 
 The loans are limited to plants that have been around for at least 20 years, which pretty much limits the help to the gas-guzzling trio from Michigan and three Honda plants. It is supposed to be used to retool old car and parts plants to make vehicles that achieve at least 25 percent better gas mileage than similar models in their class -- hardly a difficult target, according to experts from the Union of Concerned Scientists. 
 But the Big Three automakers are reeling from the impact of expensive oil on sales of gas-guzzlers and spending oodles of money to cover retiree health and pension costs. Like other businesses, they are being strangled by the credit crunch. They have pushed for more money and tried to ease the restrictions on its use.
 There are other, perhaps more pressing demands on the public purse than merely helping out General Motors, Ford and Chrysler: guaranteeing all Americans access to affordable health care, improving the nation's schools, mending the country's threadbare social safety net to help unemployed workers. The list could go on.
 Encouraging investment in more energy-saving technologies is potentially a good thing. Yet the government bears responsibility for ensuring that that is how its money is spent. And, if it ever tries to expand the program -- as some members of Congress have suggested -- a good target would be some of those Japanese-owned automakers in the United States that actually have a record of successfully investing in fuel-efficient cars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (50%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (50%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



240 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG COUNTDOWN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1689 words

HEADLINE: One Way Up: U.S. Space Plan Relies on Russia

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
STAR CITY, Russia -- This place was once no place, a secret military base northeast of Moscow that did not show up on maps. The Soviet Union trained its astronauts here to fight on the highest battlefield of the cold war: space.
Yet these days, Star City is the place for America's hard-won orbital partnership with Russia, where astronauts train to fly aboard Soyuz spacecraft. And in two years Star City will be the only place to send astronauts from any nation to the International Space Station.
The gap is coming: from 2010, when the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shuts down the space shuttle program, to 2015, when the next generation of American spacecraft is scheduled to arrive, NASA expects to have no human flight capacity and will depend on Russia to get to the $100 billion station, buying seats on Soyuz craft as space tourists do.
As NASA celebrates its 50th anniversary this month, the time lag in the Bush administration's plan to retire the nation's three space shuttles and work on a return to the Moon has thrust the United States space program squarely into national politics and geopolitical controversy. 
Senators John McCain and Barack Obama have denounced the gap and promoted their commitment to the space program while on trips to Florida, where thousands of workers will lose their jobs when the shuttle program ends. And antagonism between the United States and Russia, over the conflict in Georgia and other issues, is clouding the future of a 15-year partnership in space, precisely when NASA will be more reliant on Russia than ever before.
The administrator of NASA, Michael D. Griffin, has called the situation ''unseemly in the extreme.'' In an e-mail message he sent to his top advisers in August, Dr. Griffin wrote that ''events have unfolded in a way that makes it clear how unwise it was for the U.S. to adopt a policy of deliberate dependence on another power.''
Dr. Griffin is worried enough that he ordered his staff to explore flying the aging shuttles past 2010. He did so, he said in an interview last month, ''about five minutes after the Russians invaded Georgia, because I could see this coming.'' But he warned that any extension would be costly and could further delay NASA's return to the Moon and threaten America's role as the leading space power.
China's Gains
Last month, China made the third successful launching of its Shenzhou VII spacecraft and the first spacewalk by one of its astronauts. The Chinese government has said it hopes to establish a space station and eventually make a Moon landing. The United States plans to return to the Moon by 2020 at the earliest; some observers believe China might get there first.
The interruption in American-controlled access to space rankles some in Washington, including Senator Bill Nelson of Florida, a leading proponent of the space program. In an interview, Mr. Nelson said it was ''inexcusable'' for the country's space program to be put in a position of dependence on such a politically volatile partner. ''We've got a Russian prime minister who believes he's czar,'' he said of Vladimir Putin, referring to Russia's military action in Georgia.
The United States has had periods in which its astronauts could not reach space: from the end of the Apollo program in 1975 to the beginning of shuttle flights in 1981, and for more than two years after the loss of the shuttles Challenger in 1986 and Columbia in 2003. But the coming interval could be the longest if the rollout of NASA's new rockets is significantly delayed.
Even though the outlines of the gap have been known since soon after Dr. Griffin began running the agency in 2005, Cmdr. Scott J. Kelly of the Navy, an astronaut who has made two trips to orbit, warned in April that the prospect of a United States that could not send humans into space on its own rockets would come as a shock. ''A large part of the American public is going to be surprised,'' he said, adding that people would cry, ''Who let that happen?''
The Politics
The Bush administration chose to give up the nation's own access to space for five years and move to the next phase of space travel. The administration decided to retire the shuttles and in January 2004 announced a sweeping ''vision for space exploration.''
Under the plan, NASA would stop using the aging and risky shuttle fleet and move to a new launching program, Constellation, built around Ares rockets and Orion capsules that are designed to return astronauts to the Moon and even to explore near-Earth asteroids and Mars.
To get from one program to the other without inflating NASA's $17 billion annual budget, the administration decided to wind down the shuttle program and ramp up Constellation. The decision has always been portrayed as difficult, but in recent months, criticism has flared. The Republican and Democratic presidential candidates, for example, have pledged to keep America flying.
''As president, I will act to ensure our astronauts will continue to explore space, and not just by hitching a ride with someone else,'' Mr. McCain said in a statement this year. Mr. Obama has criticized what he has called the ''poor planning and inadequate funding'' that have led to the situation.
Both candidates say NASA should explore the continuation of the shuttle program for at least one additional flight and try to speed up the development of Constellation with more financing.
Any new money, though, would come too late to greatly shorten the development time for the new craft. ''It is essentially unfixable now,'' Dr. Griffin said. His growing frustration was clear in his e-mail message to aides on Aug. 18, which included the order to study the additional flights.
''In a rational world, we would have been allowed to pick a shuttle retirement date to be consistent with Ares/Orion availability,'' Dr. Griffin wrote. Within the administration, he wrote, ''retiring the shuttle is a jihad rather than an engineering and program management decision.''
After the message was published by The Orlando Sentinel, Dr. Griffin issued a statement saying his message had failed ''to provide the contextual framework for my remarks, and my support for the administration's policies.''
At the time, legislation vital to NASA's gap plans -- permission by Congress to buy Soyuz seats after 2011 -- was stalled by the furor over the Russian action in Georgia. That problem was resolved last month when Congress quietly granted approval, but the broader issues presented by the gap remain. And Dr. Griffin's concerns do not end with Russia and Washington politics. He has repeatedly warned that China's space program is moving forward rapidly.
In testimony to the Senate last year, Dr. Griffin said it was likely that ''China will be able to put people on the Moon before we will be able to get back.'' That prospect concerns Representative Tom Feeney, Republican of Florida. A fellow congressman recently suggested naming the first new lunar base after Neil Armstrong. Mr. Feeney recalled responding, ''What makes you think the Chinese are going to give us permission to name their base after one of our astronauts?''
The Partnership
The growing tension with Russia complicates a longstanding international alliance in space that helped defuse the cold war, especially among those who had served at the front lines.
William M. Shepherd, the first commander of the station and a former member of the Navy Seals, recalled that when he and his crewmate Yuri Gidzenko first orbited the Earth, the two cold warriors pointed to bases where, years before, they had trained and waited on alert.
''I realized at that moment we were not an American and a Russian any more,'' Mr. Shepherd said.'' ''It was about something that transcended that whole canvas.''
The partnership began in the 1990s, as the Soviet Union and its economy collapsed and Russian knowledge about carrying people into orbit -- or bombs to distant destinations -- was at risk of falling into the hands of hostile nations. In paying to help keep the Russian space program going, the logic went, the United States would limit arms proliferation. By the mid-1990s Americans began serving aboard the Mir space station as the United States and Russia planned what would become the International Space Station.
The early days were marked by wariness. Mark Bowman, an early contract employee in Russia who is now back in Moscow as a NASA representative, said that Korolev, where mission control is, ''was a closed city'' when he arrived in 1993. ''Foreigners were not allowed here,'' Mr. Bowman said.
These days, teams of NASA workers live year round in Russia and dozens of others come through for training runs, launchings and landings. ''I'd venture to say the people who work at NASA know the Russians better than any other branch of our government,'' Commander Kelly, the astronaut, said.
Susan Eisenhower, an expert on United States-Russia relations and the space programs, said the Russians proved after the loss of the shuttle Columbia that they would hold up their end of the bargain by continuing to take Americans to the station. ''When we had no choice because of the shuttle failure the Russian could have blackmailed us around this tragedy and did not do so,'' Ms. Eisenhower said.
Vitaly Davidov, the deputy director of Roscosmos, the Russian space agency, said in an interview at mission control that Russia would honor its commitments to fly crews to the station.
That does not mean the going will be easy. The United States and Russia are at loggerheads over many trade and political issues. But Michael Krepon, who helped found the Henry L. Stimson Center, a policy institute, said that while the Russian space monopoly created risk, ''there is a longstanding etiquette: you do not mess with the safety of humans in space.''
''I don't think this is going to get very ugly if the gap problem continues,'' Mr. Krepon said. ''But it will become expensive.''
The Long Countdown: This is the first in an occasional series examining the five years between when NASA shuts down the space shuttle program and when the next generation of American spacecraft is scheduled to arrive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An image of Peggy A. Whitson, an American astronaut at the International Space Station, in April at mission control in Korolev, outside Moscow. A plan to suspend NASA's capacity to fly astronauts into space has set off a geopolitical controversy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
American and Russian astronauts training in June in Star City, Russia, to go to the International Space Station. Below, Vitaly Davidov of the Russian space agency.
 Koichi Wakata of Japan, left, Maj. Maxim V. Suraev of the Russian Air Force, and Shannon Walker of the United States suiting up before training in a mock-up of a Soyuz vehicle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) MAP: NASA astronauts train regularly at Star City, once a Soviet secret military base. Map details Star CIty, Russia.(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); SPACE STATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); COLD WAR (78%); SPACE SHUTTLE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LAYOFFS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); JOHN MCCAIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); CHINA (94%); GEORGIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



241 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: A Bank Drums Up Business Through Biscuits

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
In these tough economic times, big banks around the country like IndyMac, Wachovia and Washington Mutual are crumbling. But in a campaign for a local bank in South Carolina, the only crumbling is being done by the biscuits.
 The biscuits? Yes, baked goods Southern-style are the centerpiece of the campaign, for Countybank in Greenwood, S.C., which seeks to stimulate interest in the bank's services for businesses. The campaign includes ads in print, online and outdoors as well as direct mail.
 The campaign is being produced by the Zlotnick Group in New York, which is handling the creative elements, and Media Man, a media planning and buying agency in Schenectady, N.Y., working with the marketing director at Countybank. The budget for the campaign, scheduled to run through December, is estimated at a thrifty $20,000.
 (If more banks were that fiscally responsible, there might not have been a need for the bailout plan.) 
 The campaign is indicative of efforts by marketers of financial services to keep going during what is being described as the worst crisis for Wall Street and the credit markets since the Great Depression.
 Much larger banks than Countybank are also running ads that are trying to drum up business for products like checking accounts, credit cards and certificates of deposit. Among them are Chase, part of JPMorgan Chase, and Citibank, a unit of Citigroup.
 The Countybank campaign began in late September with teaser billboards that asked simply, ''How do you like yours?'' The identity of the sponsor was missing, a common tactic in the first phases of such campaigns.
 Those signs were followed by signs sending curious South Carolinians to a microsite, or special Web site . Again, no sponsor was identified.
 Last week brought the next step, known as the reveal. The billboards and the Web site were changed to explain the purpose of the campaign: to introduce the suite of services that Countybank says is customized for each business customer.
 The Countybank logo was added to the ads, along with the theme of the campaign, ''Business banking the way you like it.''
 The business services being offered by Countybank include cash management, employee benefits, insurance, payment processing, succession planning and wealth management. They are bundled together under the name the BizKit.
 BizKit. Biscuit. Get it?
 (Those among you who dislike puns may now dismiss the play on words as half-baked.)
 ''I'm not usually a big fan of puns, but we toyed with the idea over the summer and decided, why not?'' says Bill Jenkins, the marketing director at Countybank, part of the TCB Corporation. ''Everyone thought, 'It's a little corny, but let's give it a try.' ''
 ''The hand biscuit is a habitual breakfast food here,'' he adds. ''You pick up a dozen biscuits here in the same way that if you're in New York, you pick up a dozen bagels.''
 The light-hearted approach is meant to ''do something different, stand out from the crowd,'' Mr. Jenkins says.
 ''Bank ads all look similar,'' he adds. ''They're all great, if you suffer from insomnia.''
 The idea behind the campaign is to get ''a chance to meet the business owners and find out their needs,'' Mr. Jenkins says, in Greenwood as well as a nearby, bigger market, Greenville.
 ''We have a lot more to talk to a business owner about than a savings account or 'Do you need a loan today?' '' he adds, because in addition to banking Countybank is also an insurance company, a trust company, a mortgage broker and has a controlling interest in a investment advisory firm.
 The pitch for the BizKit describes it as ''fresh, simple business banking'' that is ''customized for the way you do business.''
 ''Spend less time managing your money, more time managing your business,'' the ads declare.
 ''The thing that big banks and the agencies that work for them miss is that one-on-one relationship,'' says Jan Zlotnick, president and creative director at the Zlotnick Group.
 ''All it takes is that one person withdrawing the deposit from the bank, times a million,'' he adds, ''and we're in trouble.''
 The campaign was designed to be straightforward with ''no strings attached,'' Mr. Zlotnick says, ''removing the typical bank fine print.''
 ''It's good business to be authentic,'' he adds. ''People are looking for the real thing.''
 As for the pun, Mr. Zlotnick acknowledges that ''it was a little corny.''
 ''But corny can be good,'' he adds, because ''corny says, 'Hey, we're your neighbor; that's how we talk.' ''
 Also, the similarity between ''biscuit'' and ''BizKit'' is ''a good mnemonic,'' Mr. Zlotnick says, and will help potential customers remember the campaign. Also working with Mr. Zlotnick on the campaign are Marija Miljkovic, art director, and Colin Ochel, Web site designer and developer.
 Those business owners and managers who visit howdoyoulikeyours.com are invited to ''enjoy a fresh biscuit breakfast or lunch, for you and your employees, just the way you like it.''
 ''Why?'' the text on the home page continues. ''We thought it'd be a nicer way to say hi and introduce the BizKit, business banking custom-made to your business.''
 ''That's it, no purchase requirement, no strings,'' the text concludes. ''Just mouth-watering biscuits, the way you like.''
 Those who are intrigued enough to click on a photograph of a biscuit labeled ''Pick your fixins'' are then asked to select the types of biscuits that a Countybank representative will bring over for the business owner or manager and his or her employees. The choices are plain biscuits; sausage; sausage, egg and cheese; and bacon, egg and cheese.
 (You were expecting maybe smoked salmon biscuits?)
 The Web site visitor can also choose when he or she would like the Countybank representative to visit: 8 to 9 a.m., 9 to 10 a.m. or noon to 2 p.m.
 ''It's the whole Southern hospitality, community concept,'' says Michael Massey, president at Media Man, who worked with Mr. Jenkins when Mr. Jenkins was at a credit union in Upstate New York prior to his arrival at Countybank.
 ''As a small-business owner, I deal with a lot of banks,'' he adds, ''and I've yet to find one who gets me.''
 The purpose of the campaign is to ''do something that isn't pushing product,'' Mr. Massey says. ''It's saying: 'We're not here to sell you anything. We're here to tell you what we're about.'''
 ''The BizKit is a door-opener,'' he adds, aimed at businesses ''whether they're generating $50,000 in revenue or $50 million in revenue.'' 
 In the weeks that the campaign has been running, Mr. Jenkins says, ''we're seeing good success, but I think we'd see more activity'' if it were not for the current financial turmoil.
 ''Some of this news is overshadowing what we're doing,'' he adds.
 Still, it is surely better to have a bank bring you a hot biscuit than to have a bank land in hot water.
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BAKED GOODS (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (73%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (72%); SUCCESSION PLANS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); EMPLOYMENT (61%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



242 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Media Pave The Way To 3rd Term

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When Michael R. Bloomberg, the mayor of New York, stepped to the microphone last Thursday at City Hall to announce that he would probably run for a third term even though he was limited by law to two terms, he was framed by a huge portrait of Alexander Hamilton, the New York delegate to the Constitutional Convention. 
 Hamilton, an aristocrat, businessman and the nation's first Treasury secretary, argued at that convention that, absent corruption, officeholders should be allowed to serve as long as they chose -- for life, even. His fellow founding fathers decided that was a bad idea. 
 As for Mr. Bloomberg, a packed press corps asked whether there wasn't something undemocratic about his effort to persuade the City Council to whisk away term limits -- which the public voted for twice -- and engineer a third term. Sure, he likes the job, and sure, he's very good at it, but there is that will-of-the-people thing. 
 Mr. Bloomberg said that he understood the situation and did not take the people's verdict lightly. ''But as newspaper editorialists and others have pointed out,'' he said, ''the current law denies voters the right to choose who to vote for -- at a time when our economy is in turmoil and the Council is a democratically elected representative body.''
 It is no coincidence that Mr. Bloomberg cited voices from the city's opinion leaders. With a fiscal crisis at hand, the business leaders of New York has already held a private referendum and decided who the next mayor should be. So in spite of his rather breathtaking grab for another term, there will be no opprobrium forthcoming from the editorial pages of the city's newspapers. 
 Before Mr. Bloomberg took this controversial step -- remember when Rudolph W. Giuliani got clobbered for seeking three more months in office after Sept. 11? -- he made the rounds and locked up the support of the editorial pages of The New York Post, The New York Times and The Daily News, three city newspapers not known for moving in lock step.
 The Daily News had to do something of a backflip, having frantically opposed any effort to change limits. The New York Times has historically opposed term limits for city offices, so it was less of a walk. 
 The New York Post was far and away the most enthusiastic: On Sept. 30, the day after the Dow dropped a historic 777 points, the far bigger headline on the cover of The Post nonetheless belonged to ''Mike the III.'' 
 To set the stage, the mayor had spent the last month making plain his interest in staying put at City Hall. He did not post a Web site or drop items in various blogs, but instead called Howard J. Rubenstein, a master of the city's power grid. Meetings were set up with the owners of the daily newspapers, as well as with potential opponents and the city's corporate overlords. 
 It was a gambit that would not have been out of place in the 1970s -- or the 1870s, for that matter. This being a Bloomberg administration, there were no smoke-filled rooms, but there was definitely the sense that issues of civic moment were being handled in private environs. 
 ''The only thing that my clients have been talking about for the past few weeks is the fiscal dilemma that this city is facing,'' said Mr. Rubenstein, the public relations mogul who helped broker a deal in 1975 involving Abraham D. Beame, then mayor of the city, and Governor Hugh L. Carey back when the feds told the city to more or less drop dead. 
 ''I did step up because I want to see the city survive and prosper,'' Mr. Rubenstein said, ''and I think we all agree that he is the person who we would like to see leading us through this crisis.''
 In mid-September, after a year of talking on and off, Mr. Bloomberg and Rupert Murdoch, who owns The New York Post, met for dinner at an Italian restaurant on the Upper East Side and sealed a deal. Arthur Sulzberger Jr., publisher of The New York Times, had two breakfasts with the mayor, and although no specific commitments were made, an understanding was reached. 
 Mortimer B. Zuckerman, owner of The Daily News, said he had no trouble throwing his support behind Mr. Bloomberg. He said there had been no cabal, no conspiracy, just three newspaper publishers all arriving at the same conclusion at a critical juncture in the life of the city. 
 ''Suggesting that the publishers can decide who the next mayor is is a little like being a 90-year-old named in a paternity suit,'' Mr. Zuckerman said on the phone. ''I only wish we had that kind of power. I think he has been a remarkable mayor, we face tremendous challenges as a city right now, and it's clear that he is the person for the job.''
 Even Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics heir, who financed the campaign that brought about term limits in the first place, eventually came around. 
 ''Had there not been this economic crisis, had we not been looking at 28,000 jobs suddenly lost, there is no question in my mind that I would have continued to oppose any change,'' Mr. Lauder said by phone. ''But we face an unprecedented challenge and we need a mayor with a deep understanding of financial matters.''
 In relenting, Mr. Lauder joins many business leaders in New York, including Richard D. Parsons, chairman of Time Warner; Steven Rattner of the Quadrangle Group; and Jerry I. Speyer, the chairman of Tishman-Speyer Properties. 
 For many months, businesses had been worrying that Mr. Bloomberg, who brought both fiscal rigor and an understanding of corporate folkways to the job, would be out of office next year. 
 It was a worry that deepened considerably when Christine C. Quinn, the candidate many members of the business world found most palatable, became embroiled in a budgetary scandal involving phantom nonprofit groups. 
 That collective desire -- paired with Mr. Bloomberg's persistent personal ambition -- still lacked a public service rationale, but then came the decimation of the New York financial sector. 
 The announcement last Thursday had everything to do with how power moves, but the normal components of the political process were nowhere in sight: Instead of checking the mood of party leaders, the mayor consulted his familiars in the business world. 
 A simple question about what party Mr. Bloomberg would run on behalf of brought a sniff from the dais. ''This is not the time for politics,'' he said.
 Of course not. And why not throw democracy in there too, the part about the people voting in both 1993 and 1995 to limit all city officials to two terms? This is the Great Man theory of politics, a collective reflex of a moneyed oligarchy that has its hands on the levers of power. 
 That does not mean that it is ill-intentioned or ill-considered. Mr. Bloomberg has done an amazing job, and he may well have the skills to maneuver the city through these hard times. It is just not very democratic, big or small D, and not very pretty to watch. (If The Daily News were to update its headline from the 1975 fiscal crisis, it might read: ''City Leaders to Voters: Drop Dead!'')
 ''My whole life has prepared me for the challenges ahead, and I want to give the voters a chance to decide if they want me at the helm,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, sounding both selfish and selfless in the same sentence. ''If voters don't like what they've seen, they will vote for someone else.''
 For some New Yorkers, admiration of Mr. Bloomberg does not diminish contempt for his latest move. 
 ''He stands head and shoulders above anyone who has had the job in recent times, but the law is the law is the law,'' said David Nasaw, aprofessor of history at the graduate school of the City University of New York. ''With the encouragement of the business community, he has become his own political party and has the hubris to go with it.''
 Alexander Hamilton, an aristocrat to the end but a stickler for the laws of governance, probably would have taken some convincing. But his historical connection to the events of the day is very real: In 1801, just before he died in a duel with Aaron Burr, he founded a daily newspaper that became The New York Post.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TERM LIMITS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



243 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Is Era of Dominance Over For Conservatives?

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Shadowed by economic peril, the two major political parties enter the election homestretch a study in contrasts of philosophy, strategy and confidence.
 Democrats view Wall Street's cry for a government rescue in light of what Senator Barack Obama calls ''the final verdict'' on the free-market ideology that has reigned, for the most part, in American politics for the last generation. Most Republicans condemn the bailout as a betrayal of that ideology.
 Obama Democrats press for Washington to regulate financial institutions, augment the health insurance system and redistribute income through adjustments to the tax code. John McCain Republicans seek to direct voters' unhappiness toward Washington's corruption, rather than its underlying priorities, and raise doubts about Mr. Obama personally. 
 Flush with cash, Mr. Obama's party embraces opportunities to carry once-forbidding ''red'' states in the presidential race and build larger House and Senate majorities to enact their agenda. Mr. McCain's party aims at a narrow presidential victory on a shrunken battlefield as some Congressional Republicans have begun viewing his potential defeat as a step toward political renewal. 
 Perhaps a Major Shift
 The first stirrings of conservative ascendance came in the 1950s, after Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal Coalition won five straight elections. The cultural divisions of the 1960s lent new force to Republican candidates. 
 But it was stagnating incomes in the 1970s that allowed Ronald Reagan to knit free-market economic policies with cultural and foreign policy conservatism into a Republican revolution. In 1994, Newt Gingrich matched his achievement in Congressional elections. Democratic politicians like Bill Clinton adapted, ending the federal welfare entitlement and declaring the era of big government over.
 With the collapse of the markets, the party traditionally identified with big government -- the Democrats -- has reason to wonder if public sentiment has decisively shifted in its direction. ''Are we looking at another inflection point today?'' Michael Barone, a political analyst and historian, wrote in National Review last week. ''Maybe so.''
 If so, House Republicans refused to acquiesce last week in initially opposing, by a two-to-one ratio, the bailout that a Republican president and Treasury secretary called essential. Fear of political fallout played a role; 18 of 21 Republicans labeled vulnerable by the political handicapper Charlie Cook voted no, as did 12 of 17 vulnerable Democrats. 
 But so did Republicans' philosophic commitment, to an extent that worried some party leaders. ''In a crisis Americans want decisive action,'' said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, who is chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. And in the first vote rejecting the bailout, he said, the party was unable to demonstrate that to voters. 
 Majority Democrats cast their greater willingness to back President Bush as ''the first step'' in recasting economic policies away from laissez-faire. They look to gain support from upscale constituencies on Wall Street and elsewhere, who lately have felt estranged from Republicans on social issues. 
 Democrats acted as ''problem solvers,'' argued Mr. Cole's counterpart, Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, who is the House Democrats' campaign committee chairman. Republican ''ideology got us into this mess,'' he said, ''and their ideology made it more difficult to get out of this mess.'' 
 Red and Bright Blue
 The results have clearly lifted the Democratic ticket. Mr. Obama's lead over Mr. McCain in polls consistently exceeds the margin for error. Surveys have shown Mr. Obama leading in ''red'' battlegrounds like Florida, New Mexico and Ohio, while Mr. McCain has pulled back his effort to take the 17 ''blue'' electoral votes in Michigan. 
 Mr. McCain's campaign has responded by stepping up attacks on Mr. Obama's background, with Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, asserting that the Democrat's relationship with Bill Ayers, the onetime Weather Underground figure, constitutes ''palling around with terrorists.'' Mr. Obama has answered by criticizing Mr. McCain as ''erratic'' during the financial crisis and ''radical'' in pressing a market-based health care approach resembling Mr. Bush's. 
 Strategists in both parties see similar effects on Congressional races. Mr. Cook rates just one Democratic Senate seat at risk, compared with 10 for Republicans. 
 House Democrats once considered the padding of their 235-seat majority by 10 optimistic. Now House Republicans say they would consider losing only 10 a success.
 Nor do they fear Mr. McCain's defeat. His ''maverick'' stance has long left Republican regulars ambivalent. As Republicans in Congress learned under Bill Clinton, and Democrats under Mr. Bush, opposing a president of the other party can help legislative minorities refocus message and agenda. 
 ''They are resigned to a probable Obama victory,'' observed Jim L. Brulte, a prominent California Republican who once led his party's caucus in both the state Assembly and Senate. Republicans, he added, ''understand that that is a necessity in order to set the stage to retake the majority.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TAX LAW (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); TOM COLE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



244 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2403 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: October 6, 2008

 BODY:
International
 REVOLUTIONARY SLICE OF AFGHANISTAN
 Comes Free From Guns or Bombs
 There is a revolution taking place in this calmer corner of Afghanistan. It doesn't involve insurgents, suicide bombs or pitched battles with NATO forces in the streets. In Bamian, women are driving cars, working in public office there is even a female governor. There's something to be said for six years of relative peace since the fall of the Taliban. That easing of a country-wide conflict has allowed women to bush the boundaries a little. page A6 
 11 IRAQIS KILLED DURING U.S. RAID
 Eleven people were killed, including three women and two children, during an American raid on a house in Mosul when an insurgent detonated a suicide vest, American and Iraqi officials said. It was unclear whether the women and children were killed by the gunfire or by the explosive device. It was yet another sign of continued Sunni operation despite American and Iraqi forces' efforts. Page A6 
 THAILAND ARRESTS PROTEST LEADER
 Thailand's tumultuous political process, with more twists than a car chase, took another hairpin turn when the police arrested the leader of antigovernment protestors occupying the grounds of the prime minister's office in Bangkok. The prime minister faces charges of insurrection and protest, derailing the efforts of his government to come to some kind of arrangement with the protestors. Page A10 
 RUSSIA BEGINS TO REMOVE TROOPS
 Russian forces are in the process of dismantling checkpoints in the buffer zones outside the separatist enclaves of South Ossetia and Abkhazia as part of troop withdrawal. Russia is five days ahead of schedule for the withdrawal, two days after an explosion killed eight Russian and three Ossetian soldiers in Tskhinvali, the capital of South Ossetia, threatening to derail the timetable for the removal of Russian troops. Page A11 
 U.S. DENIES VYING FOR SOVIET STATES
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said that the United States was not trying to insert its influence and pry resources-rich former communist countries away from Russia. Stopping in Kazakhstan after a one-day trip to India, Ms. Rice also rejected the idea that any country held a special influence in the region, adding that this was ''not some kind of contest for the affection of Kazakhstan between the countries of the region.'' Page A10 
 VIOLENCE ERUPTS IN NORTHERN INDIA
 Violence erupted over the weekend between Bangladeshi settlers and tribal people in northeast India. Thirty-three people have been killed and thousands left homeless, police and hospital authorities said. The violence has since spread to neighboring districts. Page A8 
 NATIONAL
 IN ALASKA, A CONCERN
 Other Than Politics
 The keen national interest in the state's governor, Sarah Palin, the Republican candidate for vice president, is not shared in Akiachak, Alaska. Instead, elders cite Senator Lisa Murkowski, who recently held a hearing in the small city of Bethel to discuss how some people can no longer afford to live in the villages of their ancestors and are leaving for Anchorage. The elders say she is on to something. PAGE A13
 POSSIBLE POWER SHIFT
 Shadowed by economic peril, the two major political parties enter the election homestretch a study in contrasts of philosophy, strategy and confidence, John Harwood writes in the Caucus. And while Democrats look to carry once-forbidding ''red'' states in the presidential race and build larger House and Senate majorities, Republicans hope for a narrow presidential victory -- if that. PAGE A19
 EPISCOPAL DIOCESE VOTES TO SPLIT
 After the Episcopal Diocese of Pittsburgh voted overwhelmingly to split from the national church, creating the second schism since the 2003 appointment of an openly gay Episcopal bishop, V. Gene Robinson, above, both sides were hoping for a simple resolution. The majority of the diocese's 74 parishes will align with a more conservative branch of the church in South America. But now there is the matter of who gets diocesan and parish property. PAGE A17
 WHAT'S THAT EMPLOYER AGAIN?
 The Republican National Committee plans to file a complaint against Senator Barrack Obama's presidential campaign raising questions about the legitimacy of its small-dollar contributions and donations coming from overseas. Among the things that caught their attention: donations from someone named ''Good Will'' in Austin, Tex., who listed his employer as ''Loving'' and his occupation as ''You.'' It appears that no action is likely to be taken until after the November election. PAGE A15
 OBITUARIES
 DONALD BLAKESLEE, 90
 One of the most decorated fighter pilots of World War II and the commander of the first American fighter squadrons to reach Berlin as the Allies ground down the German Luftwaffe. PAGE A27
 AVRAHAM BIRAN, 98
 An archaeologist of biblical sites who excavated Tel Dan, an ancient city along Israel's northern border, and uncovered an unexpected stone fragment bearing what might be the earliest reference to the House of David. PAGE A27
 NEW YORK
 PERSECUTED IN SENEGAL,
 A Refugee in America
 Pape Mbaye, an entertainer from Dakar, Senegal, is known there for his dancing, singing and storytelling. He is also infamously known for flamboyance, and for photographs in a magazine of what was reported to be an underground same-sex marriage that Mr. Mbaye, who is gay, had organized. That was not well received in Senegal, which is why Mr. Mbaye now lives in New York, with refugee status granted by the United States government. PAGE A21 
 SPORTS
 A RETURN TO 2004 FORM
 For Oklahoma-Texas Game
 This Saturday's Red River Rivalry, as the annual game between Oklahoma and Texas in Dallas at the Cotton Bowl is known, marks the return of a mega showdown with both national title and Heisman Trophy implications. For the first time since 2004, both teams enter the game contest ranked in the top five, with Oklahoma at No. 1, and Texas No. 5. Over the series' last nine years, the higher-ranked team has won. PAGE D5
 ONE DREAM ENDS, ANOTHER BEGINS
 The call came Sunday morning for Brandon Sugden, who says he wasn't really surprised. A career minor league enforcer, Sugden, 30, was getting word from the New York Islanders that they were cutting him, his seventh such exit from an N.H.L. training camp. He has never played in the N.H.L. game. ''Hopefully, a couple of months in the minors and then I'll get another sniff,'' he said. PAGE D1
 SAME SONG, SECOND VERSE
 The Cubs won 97 regular season games and scored 855 runs this year, more than any other National League team. And then they made a quick exit in the playoffs, scoring six runs while losing three straight games, just like last year. ''This one's way worse, because this team is so much better than what we showed these three games,'' the Cubs' Mark DeRosa said. ''But we didn't play well,'' he continued. ''We have no one to blame but ourselves.'' PAGE D2
 CREAMER WINS SAMSUNG TITLE
 Paula Creamer made a tricky four-foot par putt on the 72nd hole to ice a one-stroke victory over Song-Hee Kim in the Samsung World Championship in Half Moon Bay, Calif. She closed with a 3-under-par 69 for a four-day total of 9-under 279. It was Creamer's fourth victory of the year, her eighth since she turned pro right out of high school in 2005 and her first in Northern California. PAGE D8
 BUSINESS
 JUSTICE DEPARTMENT INQUIRY
 Reveals Fears About Google
 The Justice Department's antitrust investigation of the advertising partnership between Google and Yahoo has revealed the growing resentment and fear of Google's power among some of the biggest players in the advertising industry. Analysts who follow Google worry that the agreement puts thecompany on a course to more frequent collisions with government regulators, which could slow its growth prospects. PAGE B1
 THE GAME'S THE THING
 Acting career not quite what it used to be, but baby still needs a new pair of shoes? Why not try to be a game show host? The approach has worked for some -- think of Howie Mandel before ''Deal or No Deal.'' But even some people with big followings -- the tennis player John McEnroe and Paul Reubens (a k a Pee-wee Herman) -- have gone down to defeat in the game show arena. Not everybody can be the next Monty Hall. PAGE B6
 AVOIDING ARBITRATION
 Corporate executives like arbitration clauses, the language buried in the fine print of contracts that typically bars a consumer from going to court in the event of a dispute. But a study by three professors suggests that companies are far less likely to use arbitration clauses in contracts with one another than in contracts with consumers, and one suggests that the real purpose is to avoid class-action suits. PAGE B3
 SPIELBERG IN NEW MOVIE COMPANY
 The movie executives Steven Spielberg, David Geffen and Stacey Snider formally severed their ties with Paramount Pictures, ending a sometimes stormy three-year tenure. Under a separation agreement, a new company, to be led by Mr. Spielberg and Ms. Snider, will take the lead in developing a number of projects now owned by Paramount, which would have an option to co-finance and co-distribute them. Mr. Geffen does not intend to become part of the new company, Paramount and DreamWorks said in a joint statement. PAGE B6
 CHEAPER BY THE GENOME
 A start-up company called Complete Genomics says it will start charging $5,000 next year for determining the sequence of the genetic code that makes up the DNA in one set of human chromosomes. That is another step toward the long-sought goal of the ''$1,000 genome,'' a price at which it might become commonplace for people to obtain their entire DNA sequences. Today, the cost is about $100,000. PAGE B5
 Bloomberg Enlists the Media B1
 arts
 A STICKY AND SWEET ARRIVAL,
 By a Pop Survivor
 The Material Girl has made her return to the United States. ''Tick-tock, tick-tock,'' sang Madonna's backup singers as video screens and subwoofers blasted to life at the Izod Center. Her Sticky and Sweet Tour made its first stop in New Jersey. Though the 50-year-old working mother can no longer be seen as a club land ingenue, a glamour queen or a kinky provocateuse, time has brought out her core: careerist ambition and a combative tenacity, Jon Pareles writes. PAGE C1
 CELEBRATING A LEADER OF DANCE
 Forty-five years ago British modern dance was nonexistent. Now, the finest choreographer British modern-dance has ever known is celebrating his 60th birthday and his 40th year of creating dance. He is Richard Alston, artistic director of the Place, which became the first center for modern-dance training in London during the late 1960s, and is still probably its foremost, Alastair Macauley writes. PAGE C7
 RANCHERA SOUNDS AT THE GARDEN
 The Mexican ranchera star Vicente Fernandez, a veteran of more than 40 years and several dozen albums, is a marathoner, known for epic-length performances, and is headlining Madison Square Garden for the first time, though in truth he treated it like any other night. He was swaggering and unhurried, owning the stage with a studied theatricality, businesslike in his looseness, Jon Caramanica writes. PAGE C2
 A MARRIAGE OF FAITH AND FILM
 An almost all-volunteer cast and crew, including a star who was an '80s teen heartthrob, and a plot about a firefighter who saves his marriage by turning to God -- ''Fireproof'' hardly sounds like a recipe for box office success, let alone a best-selling book. But that's what the film has spawned. It has received mixed reviews from critics in the mainstream media. But some religious groups were supportive. PAGE C1
 ONE ROCK STAR, TWO BANDS
 Trying to juggle two superb Brooklyn bands at once is no easy task, but it is the life of Daniel Rossen, best known as a member of Grizzly Bear, the band he joined in 2004. Its billowing, dreamlike songs made Grizzly Bear an indie-rock sensation. Now the band that started his recording career, Department of Eagles, is to play its first full concert at the Bell House; and it will release its second album, ''In Ear Park.'' PAGE C3
 ART EMBROILED IN FAMILY FEUD
 The fate of a collection of art from New Guinea is unknown. In the midst of a feud among three brothers over their mother's estate, one offered it to the de Young Museum in San Francisco. But the gift is in doubt -- the museum and the Sotheby's auction house have been dragged into the fray. As all lay claim to the collection, many wonder if it will remain intact. PAGE C1
 EDITORIAL
 The Supreme Court's New Term
 The Supreme Court begins its term on Monday, but real excitement this fall is occurring on the outside in a presidential race that could shape the court for years to come. Page A28
 DETROIT GOT ITS BAILOUT
 While the White House and Congress were embroiled in negotiations over the $700 billion rescue for the nation's bedraggled banks, Congress quietly approved $25 billion in subsidized loans for Detroit's bedraggled automakers. Page A28
 SCRAPING THE BOTTOM
 Voters, as much as candidates, are being tested in the 2008 campaign as hate-filled propaganda oozes from televisions, radios, the Internet and mailboxes. Page A28
 Op-Ed
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 In an interview on Sunday, Gov. Sarah Palin criticized Sen. Barack Obama's associations with Bill Ayers and the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. And when asked if she had any advice for Sen. John McCain before the debate on Tuesday night, she said she would tell him what he told her: ''Have fun. Be yourself, and have fun.'' Page A29
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Sen. John McCain wants to blow up the current system of health insurance, and he doesn't offer a workable alternative. He would eliminate the tax break for employer-provided insurance, but without the break, many employers would drop their current health plans. And the people losing insurance would be those who need it most: lower-income workers and Americans with health problems whom insurance companies won't cover. Page A29
 MAILING OUR WAY TO SOLVENCY
 Four problems assail the structure of private and public finance in the United States: almost 10 percent of Americans are without a bank account, the concern of all Americans about the security of their savings, the growing debt that the United States owes to foreign countries, and underinvestment in public assets like sewer systems and bridges. There is one solution that addresses each: the postal savings bank. Page A29

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALIBAN (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (74%); SARAH PALIN (56%); LISA MURKOWSKI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) ALASKA, USA (92%); NORTH INDIA (79%); NORTHEAST INDIA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); INDIA (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



245 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Rice Denies U.S. Is Vying for Ex-Soviet States

BYLINE: By DAVID L. STERN

DATELINE: ALMATY, Kazakhstan 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Sunday that America was not playing a ''zero-sum game'' with the Kremlin to pry resource-rich former Communist states from Russia's influence. 
 Stopping in the Central Asian republic of Kazakhstan after a one-day trip to India, Ms. Rice also rejected the idea that any country exercised ''a special sphere of influence'' in the region.
 President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, who said in August that Moscow had ''privileged interests'' in areas formerly in its domain, visited Kazakhstan just two weeks before Ms. Rice. Vice President Dick Cheney visited the former Soviet republics of Georgia, Azerbaijan and Ukraine in early September.
 ''Kazakhstan is an independent country. It can have friendships with whomever it wishes,'' Ms. Rice said in answer to a question about whether the United States was trying to steal Russia's allies. Her comments, at a news conference in the capital of Kazakhstan, Astana, were posted on the State Department Web site.
 Later, after meeting with Kazakhstan's foreign minister, Marat Tazhin, Ms. Rice said, ''This is not some kind of contest for the affection of Kazakhstan between the countries of the region.''
 Mr. Tazhin, whose boss, President Nursultan Nazarbayev, has performed a delicate balancing act among the world's major powers and whose country holds enormous oil and gas reserves, said Kazakhstan enjoyed good relationships with both Russia and the United States. Relations with Moscow are ''very politically correct,'' he said.
 Ms. Rice's statements came against a backdrop of heightened tension between the United States and Russia, along with growing indications that the balance of power among the former Soviet republics may be tilting toward the Kremlin.
 Besides Russia's emphatic show of military strength in its short war with Georgia nearly two months ago, the Kremlin has broadened its assertiveness and made further significant inroads in strategic control of energy.
 During an official visit to Uzbekistan last month, Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian prime minister and former president, completed an agreement to buy Uzbekistan's natural gas output at market prices -- assuring that the Kremlin would preserve its access to the country's extensive reserves.
 At the same time, Kazakh and Uzbek officials agreed to build a gas pipeline to feed into the Russian pipeline system, a setback for Western hopes to transport Central Asian gas to Europe by way of a route bypassing Russia. Kazakhstan, meanwhile, has abandoned plans to build an oil terminal in Georgia, which would have helped that country's economy revive from the war with Russia.
 In addition, Russia has offered to buy all natural gas from Azerbaijan, another former Soviet republic with large hydrocarbon reserves coveted by Europe and the United States. If President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan agrees to the Kremlin's terms, it could further diminish Western influence in the region and possibly doom the proposed Nabucco pipeline, which the Europeans had hoped would help wean them from dependence on gas from Russia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice greeted Kazakh officials in Kazakhstan on Sunday. Her visit to Central Asia came amid heightened tensions between Russia and the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STANISLAV FILIPPOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) MAP: Astana is the capital of Kazakhstan, which is rich in oil and gas. Map details Almaty, and Astana, Kazakhstan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (69%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (65%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%); DICK CHENEY (59%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); KAZAKHSTAN (95%); ASIA (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); GEORGIA (93%); AZERBAIJAN (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UZBEKISTAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); INDIA (92%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



246 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: FINANCIAL CRISES SPREAD IN EUROPE

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY, NELSON SCHWARTZ and FLOYD NORRIS; Mr. Dougherty reported from Frankfurt, Mr. Schwartz from Paris and Mr. Norris from New York. Katrin Bennhold and David Jolly contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Carter Dougherty, Nelson Schwartz and Floyd Norris and written by Mr. Norris. 
 European nations scrambled on Sunday night to prevent a growing credit crisis from bringing down major banks and alarming savers as troubles in financial markets spread around the world, accelerating economic downturns on three continents.
 The German government moved to guarantee all private savings accounts in the country on Sunday, hoping to reassure depositors who had grown nervous as efforts to bail out a large German lender and a major European financial company failed.
 Late Sunday, it was disclosed that new bailouts had been arranged for both of those companies, Hypo Real Estate, the German lender, and Fortis, a large banking and insurance company based in Belgium but active across much of the Continent. 
 The spreading worries came days after the United States Congress approved a $700 billion bailout package that officials had hoped would calm financial markets globally. 
 The moves came as federal regulators were trying to help resolve a merger fight in the United States that could make investors more uneasy. Court hearings were under way in New York on Sunday over competing efforts by Citigroup and Wells Fargo to acquire Wachovia, a large bank that nearly failed a week ago. 
 In Europe, meanwhile, the crisis appears to be the most serious one to face the Continent since a common currency, the euro, was created in 1999. Jean Pisani-Ferry, director of the Bruegel research group in Brussels, said Europe confronted ''our first real financial crisis, and it's not just any crisis. It's a big one.''
 The European Central Bank has aggressively lent money to banks as the crisis has grown. It had resisted lowering interest rates, but signaled on Thursday that it might cut rates soon. The extra money, aimed at ensuring that banks would have adequate access to cash, has not reassured savers or investors, and European stock markets have performed even worse than the American markets.
 In Iceland, government officials and banking chiefs were discussing a possible rescue plan for the country's commercial banks. In Berlin, Chancellor Angela Merkel and her finance minister, Peer Steinbruck, appeared before television cameras to promise that all bank deposits would be protected, although it was not clear whether legislation would be needed to make that promise good.
 Mindful of the rising public anger at the use of public money to buttress the business of high-earning bankers, Mrs. Merkel promised a day of reckoning for them as well. ''We are also saying that those who engaged in irresponsible behavior will be held responsible,'' she said. ''The government will ensure that. We owe it to taxpayers.''
 Stock markets fell sharply in early trading on Monday in Asia on growing fears about the health of European banks and the resilience of the global economy.
 The Nikkei 225 index dropped 3.4 percent in Tokyo on Monday, the Kospi index in Seoul fell 3.7 percent and the Standard and Poor's/Australian Stock Exchange 200 index in Sydney declined 3.3 percent. The events in Berlin and Brussels underscored the failure of Europe's case-by-case approach to restoring confidence in the Continent's increasingly jittery banking sector. A European summit meeting Saturday did little to calm worries. 
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and his counterparts from Germany, Britain and Italy vowed to prevent a Lehman-like bankruptcy in Europe but they did not offer an American-style bailout package.
 The crisis has underlined the difficulty of taking concerted action in Europe because its economies are far more integrated than its governing structures.
 ''We are not a political federation,'' Jean-Claude Trichet, the president of the European Central Bank, said. ''We do not have a federal budget.''
 Last week, Ireland moved to guarantee both deposits and other liabilities at six major banks. There was grumbling in London and Berlin about the move giving those banks an unfair advantage. But Germany proposed its deposit guarantee Sunday after Britain raised its guarantee to $:50,000, or almost $90,000, from $:35,000.
 Unlike in the United States, where deposits are fully guaranteed up to a limit of $250,000 -- a figure that was raised from $100,000 last week -- deposits in most European countries have been only partially guaranteed, sometimes by groups of banks rather than governments. In Germany, the first 90 percent of deposits up to 20,000 euros, or about $27,000, was guaranteed.
 The Paris meeting produced a promise that European leaders would work together to halt the financial crisis and reassure nervous investors, but even before the meeting began it was becoming clear that two bailouts announced the week before had not succeeded and that a major Italian bank might be in trouble. That bank, Unicredit, announced plans on Sunday to raise as much as 6.6 billion euros, or $9 billion, in capital. 
 Fortis, which only a week ago received 11.2 billion euros from the governments of the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, was unable to continue its operations. On Friday, the Dutch government seized its operations in that country, and Sunday night the Belgian government helped to arrange for BNP-Paribas, the French bank, to take over what was left of the company. 
 In Berlin, the government arranged a week ago for major banks to lend 35 billion euros to Hypo, but that fell apart when the banks concluded that more money would be needed. Late Sunday, the government said a 50 billion euro package had been arranged, with the government and other banks participating.
 The credit crisis began in the United States, a fact that has led European politicians to claim superiority for their country's financial systems, in contrast to what Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's prime minister, called the ''speculative capitalism'' of the United States. On Saturday, Gordon Brown, the British prime minister, said the crisis ''has come from America,'' and Mr. Berlusconi bemoaned the lack of business ethics that had been exposed by the crisis.
 Many of the European banks' problems have stemmed from bad loans in Europe, and Fortis got into trouble in part by borrowing money to make a major acquisition. But activities in the United States have played a role. Bankers said Sunday that the additional need for funds at Hypo came from newly discovered guarantees it had issued to back American municipal bonds that it had sold to investors.
 The credit market worries came on top of heightening concerns about economic growth in Europe and the United States. Many economists think there are recessions in both areas, and one also appears to have started in Japan, where the Nikkei newspaper reported Monday that a poll of corporate executives found that 94 percent thought the country's economy was deteriorating. 
 ''Unless there is a material easing of credit conditions,'' said Bob Elliott of Bridgewater Associates, an American money management firm, after the retail sales figures were announced, ''it is unlikely that demand will turn around soon.''
 Almost unnoticed as the United States Congress approved a $700 billion bailout for banks last week, it also agreed to guarantee $25 billion in loans for America's troubled automakers. European automakers said Sunday they would seek similar aid from the European Commission.
 Henry M. Paulson Jr., the United States Treasury secretary, hoped that approval of the American bailout, which will involve buying securities from banks at more than their current market value, would free up credit by making cash available for banks to lend and by reassuring participants in the credit markets.
 But that did not happen last week. Instead, credit grew more expensive and harder to get as investors became more skittish about buying commercial paper, essentially short-term loans to companies. Rates on such loans rose so fast that some feared the market could essentially close, leaving it to already-stressed banks to provide short-term corporate loans.
 Altria, the parent company of the cigarette maker Philip Morris, said lenders wanted it to delay its planned $10.3 billion acquisition of UST, another tobacco maker, until 2009, but promised it would complete the deal. 
 Europe's need to scramble is in part the legacy of a decision to establish the euro, which 15 countries now use, but not follow up with a parallel system of cross-border regulation and oversight of private banks.
 ''First we had economic integration, then we had monetary integration,'' said Sylvester Eijffinger, a member of the monetary expert panel advising the European parliament. ''But we never developed the parallel political and regulatory integration that would allow us to face a crisis like the one we are facing today,'' he added.
 In Brussels, Daniel Gros, director of the Center for European Policy Studies, agreed. ''Maybe they will be shocked into thinking more strategically instead of running behind events,'' he said. ''The later you come, the higher the bill.''
 While the European Central Bank has power over interest rates and broader monetary policy, it was never granted parallel oversight of private banks, leaving that task to dozens of regulators across the Continent.
 This patchwork system includes national central banks in each of the euro-zone's 15 members and they still retain broad powers within their own borders, further complicating any regional approach to problem-solving.
 The European economic landscape today bears little resemblance to the 1990s, when the groundwork for the euro was laid. Back then, Mr. Pisani-Ferry recalled, few banks in Europe had cross-border operations on a significant scale. 
 A wave of mergers over the last decade created giants like HSBC and Deutsche Bank, which straddle continents and have major American exposure.
 ''The European banking landscape was transformed fairly recently,'' Mr. Pisani-Ferry said. ''When the euro was first introduced, the question of cross-border regulation didn't really arise.''
 Optimists say one potential long-term benefit from the current turmoil is that it often takes a crisis to propel European integration forward.
 ''Progress in Europe is usually the result of a crisis,'' Mr. Eijffinger said. ''This could be one of those rare moments in E.U. history.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 7, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about European efforts to shore up struggling banks omitted part of one sentence in some copies. The passage should have read, ''In Iceland, government officials and banking chiefs were discussing a possible rescue plan for the country's commercial banks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and her finance minister, Peer Steinbruck, in Berlin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAINER JENSEN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MERGERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); EURO (70%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); APPROVALS (68%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); INTEREST RATES (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (52%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (76%); PEER STEINBRUECK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (64%) NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELGIUM (91%); ICELAND (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (64%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



247 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Countrywide To Set Aside $8.4 Billion In Loan Aid

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
Countrywide Financial has agreed to the largest program ever to modify home loans, as part of a settlement with officials in 11 states, just days after the federal government adopted a giant financial rescue package without any relief for distressed homeowners.
 Countrywide, the nation's largest lender and loan servicer, recently acquired by Bank of America, had been sued by the states over what they said were predatory lending practices. To settle the suits, it will provide $8.4 billion in direct loan relief, affecting an estimated 400,000 borrowers nationwide, while waiving certain fees and setting aside additional funds to help people in foreclosure and relocating. 
 ''Countrywide's greed turned the American dream into a nightmare for thousands of Californians who now face foreclosure,'' said Jerry Brown, the attorney general of California. He led the negotiations for the states with Lisa Madigan, the Illinois attorney general. ''Our goal here is to help as many people stay in their homes as possible and get some compensation for those who have already been pushed out of their homes,'' he said.
 Mr. Brown expects loans worth $3.4 billion to be modified in California, where homeowners have been hit hard in the housing bust.
 The Countrywide effort is the most comprehensive, mandatory loan workout program since the mortgage crisis began last year. Congress has proposed various programs, but those measures did not make it into the final $700 billion government bailout. Since taking control of Fannie and Freddie Mac, the two housing giants, the Federal Housing Finance Agency has said it is looking at expanding modifications on the loans that Fannie and Freddie own or guarantee.
 After seizing IndyMac, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation began a loan modification program that it said could be a template in other takeovers. The agency hopes to help tens of thousands of borrowers whose interest rates are being reset higher in the early stages of that program. 
 It is encouraging people who have fallen severely behind on their payments or who have defaulted to switch into a fixed-rate mortgage at current rates of about 6 percent. Countrywide has made pledges before to modify large swaths of loans. Late last year, it vowed to help about 82,000 borrowers who were facing higher payments through 2008. But the new program will be mandatory and will be monitored by state officials.
 Along with the direct relief, Countrywide will waive late fees of $79 million and prepayment penalties of $56 million and suspend foreclosures on delinquent borrowers with the riskiest loans. 
 A foreclosure relief fund will be created with $150 million from Countrywide to help borrowers who are four months or more behind on their payments or whose homes have already been foreclosed on. The company will also provide $70 million to help troubled borrowers relocate to rental housing. In all, Countrywide is setting aside $8.7 billion to help borrowers.
 A Bank of America spokesman, James E. Mahoney, said that the cost of the program had been anticipated by the company in its acquisition of Countrywide.
 ''We have worked with attorneys general across the country to resolve the issues relating to Countrywide's practices,'' Mr. Mahoney said. ''Bank of America has put our own leadership in charge of Countrywide and have committed to a very different set of business practices going forward.''
 Countrywide settled with the states without admitting any wrongdoing.
 Under the terms of the settlement, Countrywide will reduce principal balances in some cases and cut interest rates in others. Rates could decline to 2.5 percent, depending upon a borrower's ability to pay, and remain at that level for five years. Then the rate will adjust to prevailing interest rates charged by Fannie Mae on its fixed-rate mortgages. 
 The program will focus on borrowers who were placed in the riskiest loans, including adjustable-rate mortgages whose interest rates reset significantly several years after the loans were made. Pay-option mortgages, under which a borrower must pay only a small fraction of the interest and principal, thereby allowing the loan balance to increase, are also included in the modifications. 
 Borrowers whose first payment was due between Jan. 1, 2004, and Dec. 31, 2007, can participate. The loan balance must be at least 75 percent of the current value of the home, and the borrower must be able to afford the adjusted monthly payments.
 ''We have created the first comprehensive, mandatory loan-modification program with the largest loan servicer in the country, and it is going to help homeowners stay in their homes,'' Ms. Madigan said. ''We will use this model when we work with other servicers as well.'' She said that approximately $185 million worth of loans in Illinois would be modified under the settlement. 
 Illinois had accused Countrywide of relaxing underwriting standards, structuring loans with risky features, and misleading consumers with hidden fees and fake marketing claims, like its ''no closing costs loan.'' Countrywide also created incentives for its employees and brokers to sell questionable loans by paying them more on such sales, the complaint said. In reviewing one Illinois mortgage broker's sales of Countrywide loans, the complaint said the ''vast majority of the loans had inflated income, almost all without the borrower's knowledge.'' 
 Other states in the settlement are Arizona, Connecticut, Florida, Iowa, Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Texas and Washington. It is the largest predatory lending settlement in history, far exceeding the $484 million deal struck in 2002 with the Household Finance Corporation.
 ''This agreement demonstrates the effectiveness of states in addressing predatory lending and other consumer protection matters, proving states should not be pre-empted by federal legislation,'' said Mr. Brown. 
 The program will be administered by state officials who will examine regular reports from Bank of America. The program will begin Dec. 1 as Bank of America contacts borrowers. In the meantime, Bank of America said Countrywide customers can call 800-669-6607 to discuss their loans.
 The terms of the settlement do not address Angelo R. Mozilo, the former chief executive of Countrywide Financial, or David E. Sambol, the company's former president. The states had included both as defendants. Mr. Brown said he would pursue litigation against both men. Neither could be reached for comment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jerry Brown of California led the talks with Countrywide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B9) CHART: HOME LOANS PAST DUE OR UNDER FORECLOSURE (Source: Mortgage bankers Association) (pg.B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); LITIGATION (73%); PREDATORY LENDING (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (86%); LISA MADIGAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



248 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Weekend Legal Frenzy Over Bank

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Andrew Ross Sorkin, Michael J. de la Merced and Tim Arango reported from New York. Jonathan D. Glater reported from San Francisco.

 BODY:
A showdown between two of the nation's largest banks over the Wachovia Corporation grew into a widening battle involving two courts and a cast including Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and an army of bankers, lawyers and other regulators trying to resolve the fate Sunday of one of the biggest prizes to emerge from the credit crisis. 
 By late Sunday no clear victor had emerged, after a year's worth of legal battles was compressed into a frenetic 48 hours. Citigroup's agreement to buy Wachovia for $2.2 billion was in question after Judge James M. McGuire of the Court of Appeals overturned a Saturday ruling made by a New York lower court judge from his Connecticut home that had appeared to temporarily thwart the deal. 
 And uncertainty loomed over Wells's $15 billion offer for Wachovia after Justice John G. Koeltl of the United States District Court on Sunday postponed until Tuesday a hearing to determine whether the two sides may pursue a deal. 
 With financial markets already unnerved by the crisis in the global economy, Mr. Bernanke and Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York sought to spur the parties toward a resolution. One option is to split Wachovia's banking operations into two regions. 
 Mr. Bernanke had several telephone calls with Citigroup's chief, Vikram S. Pandit, and Wells Fargo's chairman, Richard M. Kovacevich, to try to resolve the dispute, according to two people briefed on the calls. The two banking executives never spoke directly to one another, one of those people said. Mr. Bernanke also briefed Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. on the discussions. 
 At stake is the shape of the American banking system, which is being redrawn almost weekly as a handful of large players merge, and the government's own standing to broker future bank rescues after its willingness to stand behind Citigroup's offer for parts of Wachovia was called into question. 
 Wachovia was on the verge of collapse last week until Citigroup salvaged it in a government-backed deal that was upended Friday, when Wells Fargo made its startling bid. The announcement touched off a whirlwind of legal activity and angry recriminations by Citigroup, which believed its bargain to buy parts of Wachovia had been sealed with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in urgent discussions led by the regulator before dawn on September 29. 
 Indeed, after brokering the deal between Citigroup and Wachovia on Monday, some players are now accusing the F.D.I.C. of switching allegiances. In an affidavit Sunday, Robert K. Steel, the chief executive of Wachovia, said the F.D.I.C.'s chairwoman, Sheila C. Bair, ''encouraged'' him to ''give serious consideration'' to Wells Fargo's takeover offer, which would upend the deal she had already brokered.
 ''The government will have a hard time calling on companies to bail one another out in times of crisis,'' said Carl Tobias, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law. ''It seems like the F.D.I.C. loses some credibility if it doesn't enforce what happened'' he said, referring to Citigroup's deal with Wachovia. 
 With the courts closed all weekend, Citigroup's lawyers scrambled to find a state judge on Saturday afternoon to hear their case. At issue was an agreement that Citigroup said barred Wachovia from negotiating an alternative deal with anyone else until Oct. 6. Wachovia had not wanted to wait, fearing that the sweeter deal with Wells Fargo could fall through if the parties waited until Monday. 
 At about 4:30 p.m., Michael Helfer, Citigroup's chief legal officer, and two deputies arrived at the stately white Georgian home of Judge Charles E. Ramos in Cornwall, Conn., according to a person close to the situation.
 The lawyers gathered in his dining room and presented him with the initial 16-page complaint, according to people briefed on the situation. It named Wachovia and Wells as defendants, along with their boards.
 At about 5 p.m., David Boies, the New York lawyer representing Wachovia, and Paul Rowe, a veteran litigator representing Wells Fargo, called from their respective offices. Judge Ramos did not use a speakerphone, so he would put the phone down while he spoke with the Citigroup lawyers, according to people close to Wells Fargo and Wachovia. 
 For more than two hours, with frequent interruptions, the two sides pleaded their cases. Citigroup was asking Judge Ramos to block the Wells-Wachovia merger and require it to negotiate exclusively, according to the court order. Wachovia and Wells Fargo, in a series of arguments made by Mr. Boies, argued that issuing any such order would cause further havoc in financial markets that were already fragile, according to people close to both companies. At 7:14, Judge Ramos issued an initial order that did not grant the full request that Citigroup made. Instead, he crossed out their requests with an ''X'' and then wrote: ''The Exclusivity Termination Date under the Exclusivity Agreement is tolled pending the hearing of this motion and further order of the Court,'' according to people briefed on the documents.
 But Citigroup's complaint was vulnerable: it referred to a short clause in the new $700 billion Economic Stabilization Act that President Bush signed into law on Friday. Wells and Wachovia saw an opening to argue that this provision made Citigroup's case a federal matter, meaning the New York State court's ruling could not apply. 
 Shortly after Judge Ramos issued the order, Wells and Wachovia advisors raced to find a federal judge, in an apparent end-run around his ruling. Around 7:50 p.m., they received word that Justice John G. Koeltl would agree to an emergency hearing. Lawyers from Citigroup, Wells and Wachovia dialed into a conference call in which they were informed that Citigroup had filed a new complaint and a new emergency order, according to people briefed on the situations.
 While Wells and Wachovia lawyers rushed to find a federal court, Citigroup's lawyers had quietly gone back to Judge Ramos to present him with a new complaint. This time, the reference to the Economic Stabilization Act had been scratched out, according to a person close to the situation. At 9:40 p.m. on Saturday, Judge Ramos, rather than barring Wachovia from moving ahead with Wells outright, instead scheduled a hearing for Oct. 10, a move that would freeze the negotiations in place for five more days, an order that was overturned later Sunday. About an hour later, Citigroup put out a press release, calling the ruling a victory, even though officials for Wells and Wachovia found it hollow. With only a few hours of sleep, the parties returned to separate war rooms on Sunday morning to map out plans. 
 By late in the afternoon, about 15 lawyers for Citigroup, Wells Fargo, and Wachovia shuttled over for a New York State appellate court hearing, many exhausted from another emergency session in federal court. They crowded into the third-floor office of Judge McGuire, who said he came in from Connecticut. Wachovia and Wells Fargo were seeking to overturn Judge Ramos's order, which Judge McGuire later did, in part because a New York state judge does not have the power to make a ruling from Connecticut. 
 Wachovia's lawyers repeated their argument that keeping Judge Ramos's order might shatter the fragile markets and the bank itself. Citigroup's lawyers suggested the bank was robbed while being Wachovia's white-knight. ''We just wanted 7 days to come to a deal,'' said Gregory P. Joseph, a Citigroup lawyer who called from Moscow. ''That's not fair. We saved their existence.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Monday with an article about a battle between Wells Fargo and Citigroup over the purchase of the Wachovia Corporation misspelled, in some editions, the surname of Wachovia's chief executive, who was shown with lawyers outside a federal court. The article also misstated his middle initial in some editions. He is Robert K. Steel, not Robert S. Steele.
An article on Monday about a legal battle between Citigroup and Wells Fargo over the acquisition of the Wachovia Corporation reversed the titles for two jurists involved in the case. They are Judge John G. Koeltl of United States District Court and Justice Charles O. Ramos of New York State Supreme Court.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Steele, chief executive of Wachovia, spoke Sunday with lawyers outside a federal court. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); JUDGES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); APPEALS (55%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (98%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (81%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (98%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (81%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (81%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); SHEILA BAIR (58%); RICHARD M KOVACEVICH (57%); HENRY PAULSON (57%); VIKRAM PANDIT (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



249 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; IF ELECTED ...; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2859 words

HEADLINE: Rivals Present Sharp Divide On Iraq Goals

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
One of the most pressing questions Senator Barack Obama or Senator John McCain would confront if elected president is how to build on the security gains in Iraq at a time when troop levels have begun to drop.
 The issue was barely discussed in last month's foreign policy debate. But in recent interviews with The New York Times, the two candidates made clear that they would confront the challenge in starkly different ways. 
 In the interviews, Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain offered conflicting visions of how to shrink the American military presence in Iraq, the best way to encourage further political progress there and what it would mean to succeed after more than five years of war.
 They also provided telling clues about how much flexibility the next commander in chief would grant to his generals, including Gen. David H. Petraeus, the former top American general in Iraq who has been named to lead the Central Command, which oversees operations in the Middle East and Afghanistan. 
 Mr. Obama, who noted that General Petraeus wanted ''maximum flexibility'' in setting withdrawal schedules, said he ''pushed back'' when he met with the commander in July by making the case for sending more forces to Afghanistan, which the Democratic candidate views as the main battleground against terrorists. 
 Mr. McCain, who argued that a favorable outcome in Iraq is vital for American strategy in the Middle East and its overall efforts against terrorists, repeatedly invoked General Petraeus's counterinsurgency strategy and said he would be inclined to give General Petraeus considerable latitude in setting force levels in Iraq. 
 At the heart of the dispute is Mr. Obama's 16-month schedule for withdrawing American combat brigades, a timetable that is about twice as fast as that provided for in a draft American and Iraqi accord. Would that deadline spur the Iraqis to overcome their political differences and enable the United States to stabilize Iraq at far lower troop levels, as Mr. Obama asserts?
 Or would it tie the hands of commanders and undermine political progress when the security gains in Iraq are still fragile, as Mr. McCain contends? How would Mr. McCain try to promote political progress and better governance in Iraq, when he insists that circumstances on the ground, not the calendar, should determine the pace of reductions? 
 ''The danger with Obama's rigid timetable is that it may not allow U.S. commanders to react to events on the ground,'' said Toby Dodge, a specialist on Iraq at the University of London and a former adviser to General Petraeus. ''McCain's policies lack the detail needed to confront the challenges of politics in Iraq. Policies developed to please the party faithful are not being subjected to close electoral scrutiny and do not match the complex political and military realties of Iraq.''
 Mr. McCain was interviewed on Sept. 17 for 38 minutes in Grand Rapids, Mich. Mr. Obama was interviewed for 27 minutes on Sept. 20 as his campaign plane flew to Charlotte, N.C. In each case, that was as much time as the candidates would allot. 
 Withdrawing U.S. Troops
 There is no question that the American reinforcements dispatched by President Bush have helped reduce sectarian violence, both directly through military operations and indirectly by helping encourage the spread of the Awakening movement, in which neighborhood watch groups have taken on Sunni extremists.
 Iraq's Parliament also took an important political step recently by calling for provincial elections to be held in most parts of the country by the end of January. The hope is that Sunnis and Shiites who boycotted earlier votes will participate, broadening the base of support for the Iraqi government.
 But American commanders have also warned that the situation remains fragile, and that there has been mixed or no political progress in other areas. For the candidate who is elected, the challenge will be to sustain the reduction in violence and encourage political headway now that the ''surge'' of combat brigades is over and the military is scheduled to withdraw yet another brigade by February.
 On the surface, the two candidates' views on troop cuts appear to have converged: each candidate envisions reductions in American forces over his first term, as does the Iraqi government. But the similarities vanish upon closer inspection.
 Mr. Obama's position on troop cuts was forged in late 2006 as Iraq appeared to be approaching a full-scale civil war. Drawing on the bipartisan Iraq Study Group report, he opposed Mr. Bush's troop reinforcement plan and sponsored legislation in January 2007 that would have removed all American combat brigades by the end of March 2008, while allowing a small force to remain for training, counterterrorism and the protection of the American Embassy and its personnel. 
 At that time, American intelligence agencies warned in a national intelligence estimate that the removal of all American and allied forces within 18 months would ''almost certainly'' lead to a significant increase in sectarian fighting, suggesting that the speedy, if partial, withdrawal advocated by Mr. Obama would also risk a major increase in violence. 
 Since then, the gains made during the surge and Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's assertion of sovereignty have transformed the issue from a question of whether to start reducing brigades to a question of how fast and under what circumstances. 
 Mr. Obama has said he would remove the remaining combat brigades at the rate of one or two a month over a 16-month period. In the interview he argued that it was important to set a new course that would put pressure on the Iraqis to overcome their differences, free up more American forces for Afghanistan and other potential trouble spots, and reduce expenditures so they could finance programs at home.
 ''If our benchmarks or conditions that we set are contingent on actions by the Iraqis and the Iraqis don't take them, then we are not in control of our own circumstances and our deployments,'' Mr. Obama said. ''At some point we have got to break that link. We have got to be able to say to the Iraqis: we are going to make a set of decisions, and you've got to react to them.''
 Despite talk that Mr. Obama's plan parallels the timeline in a draft American-Iraqi agreement, there are important distinctions. The ''time goal'' in the draft accord calls for the withdrawal of American forces by the end of 2011, more than twice as long as Mr. Obama's 16-month deadline. And in the view of American negotiators, a ''time goal'' is more flexible than an ironclad deadline.
 In past years, the United States has generally increased its troop levels when the Iraqis have held major elections, and American officers are generally wary of making deep troop cuts before the provincial and parliamentary elections are held over the next year. 
 Seeking to preserve a measure of flexibility, Mr. Obama said that he would ''reserve the right to pause a withdrawal'' if it led to a major increase in sectarian violence. He also reiterated that he planned to keep a residual military force to pursue militants from Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, protect American installations and personnel, and, if Iraqi forces conducted themselves in a nonsectarian manner, train Iraqi troops. 
 Mr. Obama said that such a residual force would probably include Special Operations forces, teams of military advisers, combat planes, attack helicopters, medical helicopters and perhaps some smaller-scale combat units to protect the advisers. 
 He declined to estimate the size of the force, saying he would decide that after consulting commanders. But Richard J. Danzig, a secretary of the Navy in the Clinton administration who is regarded as a likely choice to serve as Mr. Obama's secretary of defense, said in a June interview with National Public Radio that it could number from 30,000 to 55,000 troops.
 ''If we have some Special Forces in the region, they are going to be engaging in combat, taking out any potential terrorist camps,'' Mr. Obama added. ''If we have got trainers in the field who are training Iraqi security forces, then I want to make sure that they are protected, and part of that means when you are in a dangerous neighborhood that you have got some combat capability.''
 It is far from clear that the Iraqi military will be able to take the lead from the Americans as quickly as Mr. Obama assumes. In a July opinion article in The New York Times, Mr. Obama noted that Lt. Gen. James M. Dubik, who oversaw the training of Iraqi forces, told a Congressional hearing that Iraq's army and police would be able to assume responsibility for security in 2009. 
 But General Dubik said in an e-mail message last month that this represented his most optimistic projection. ''My best estimate is sometime between 2009 and 2012,'' he said. ''Even at 2012, they may want and need some help with their air force, for example, or with some of their intelligence and special operations forces.''
 Mr. McCain has argued that reductions should be determined by political and military circumstances, a stance taken by Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who told reporters in June that he favored a ''conditions-based approach'' that would allow the United States to continuously assess and adjust to events on the ground.
 Providing the American commander in Iraq with maximum leeway, however, could entail some difficult trade-offs. The senior American commander in Afghanistan, Gen. David D. McKiernan, recently said he needed three more brigades in addition to the one Mr. Bush had agreed to send. That is more than either Mr. Obama or Mr. McCain has promised to deploy in Afghanistan, and the American military is stretched so thin, the Pentagon says, there will be no additional brigades for Afghanistan until the force in Iraq is reduced further. 
 Political developments in Iraq may also constrain the American military's flexibility. In January, Mr. McCain told a questioner at a town-hall-style meeting in New Hampshire that it would not matter if American troops were in Iraq for 50 or even 100 years if the country was stable and the American military was not suffering casualties, drawing an analogy with American deployments in postwar Japan or South Korea, two societies that seem far removed from the tumultuous Middle East. 
 After Democrats charged that Mr. McCain was advocating an open-ended troop commitment, he said in a speech in May that the success of his strategy would enable most American forces to return home from Iraq by January 2013.
 The ''time goal'' in the draft Iraqi and American accord, however, would have American forces leave about a year earlier, though it is hard to predict how Iraqi leaders might feel about the need for an American presence several years from now, and American officials expect that at a minimum the training of Iraqi forces would continue after 2011 under the terms of the agreement. 
 Asked to clarify his views, Mr. McCain said in the interview that he envisioned ''the withdrawal of U.S. troops over time.''
 He said the question of whether there should be a long-term American military presence in Iraq for training or other purposes should be resolved in discussions with the Iraqis, and cited Kuwait as a possible model. ''We have a military base there and a military presence,'' Mr. McCain said. ''And so I think the decision on the presence of U.S. troops will be made on a sovereign nation to sovereign nation basis.''
 Prodding the Iraqis
 A related and vital question is how the candidates hope to encourage the Iraqis to make headway on political reconciliation. For much of the Bush administration, Donald H. Rumsfeld, then the defense secretary, and Gen. George W. Casey Jr., then the top commander in Iraq, emphasized transferring security tasks to Iraqi forces and slimming the American military presence as a way to get the Iraqis to take on added responsibilities. The result was sectarian violence, not political progress. 
 Asked if he could identify an instance in which a reduction or pullback of American troops had spurred the Iraqis to reconcile their differences, Mr. Obama argued that elevated troop levels had also not led to adequate political progress.
 ''It is not clear that an ongoing, open-ended presence has prompted political change in Iraq either,'' he said. ''The fact is that we still don't have an oil law. We still don't have provincial elections. We have not dealt with Kirkuk, and the argument for staying is that we have not made sufficient political progress.'' 
 Shortly after Mr. Obama made this comment, Iraq's Parliament approved provincial elections. However, the government has yet to address the dispute over Kirkuk, an oil-rich city claimed by Kurds, Sunni Arabs and Turkmens.
 In addition to using troop withdrawals to try to encourage change, Mr. Obama said he would end efforts to train the Iraqi military if Mr. Maliki's Shiite-dominated government did not take adequate steps to integrate the largely Sunni members of the Awakening movements into Iraq's security forces.
 By contrast, Mr. McCain argued that the improved security had finally given the Iraqis the confidence to move forward politically and economically, improving their working relationship with the American military and Ryan C. Crocker, the American ambassador in Baghdad. Threats to cut off American training or deadlines for removing combat brigades, he argued, would only prompt Iraq to become more dependent on Iran or turn to militias for security.
 ''For a long time, people have said threaten them with this, threaten them with that,'' Mr. McCain said. ''Instead, Petraeus, Crocker and others established a relationship with the Iraqi government so that they did do de-Baathification, they did do an amnesty, they passed a budget. The United States government hasn't passed a budget.''
 There is no shortage of challenging issues in Iraq, including how fairly the Iraqis carry out a plan to allow more former Baathists to return to government service, the adoption of a law distributing oil revenue, and ensuring that the coming provincial elections are conducted impartially. Mr. Obama also complained that Mr. McCain ''has never clearly spelled out'' what it would mean to achieve victory in Iraq.
 Asked to explain his plan, Mr. McCain did not provide any specific suggestions for how he could persuade Iraqi officials to make headway on these thorny political issues, beyond the sort of behind-the-scenes cajoling that American officials are already undertaking.
 ''I'll continue to try to find ways to make them move forward. But to threaten withdrawal, frankly, is an option that I would be very reluctant to exercise unless I was sure that we had no other option, and I think we have lots of them,'' Mr. McCain said. ''I predict that the Iraqi government in a very halting and stumbling fashion, frustrating to us on many occasions, will move forward and progress.''
 The Stakes in Iraq
 At its most basic, the dispute between Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain centers on the importance of the American mission. For Mr. Obama, the invasion of Iraq was a mistake and the efforts he would make there are essentially a matter of damage limitation. By defining a series of minimal goals, Mr. Obama would seek to reduce American forces.
 Toward that end, Mr. Obama said his objective was a sovereign Iraq that was not a threat to the United States or its neighbors, was capable of controlling its own borders, was not a ''base camp'' for terrorists and was not experiencing ''mass violence.'' He said that it would be important that ''the will of the Iraqi people is being expressed'' though ''the machinery of democracy may not be perfect.''
 ''I have to think about the fact that given our current levels of deployment our military is stretched very thin, and if we have a sudden situation, let's say in North Korea right now, we have got some issues,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And that is before we start talking about the expenditures involved at a time when the administration just announced they want a $700 billion credit line. So that is the lens through which I view the situation in Iraq.''
 For Mr. McCain, the problems the United States has encountered in Iraq stemmed from what he saw as the many blunders made during the early years of the occupation, errors that he asserts have been largely remedied by the surge of reinforcements and a new counterinsurgency strategy. 
 Although the Qaeda militants who planned the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks did not carry out their plotting in Iraq, Mr. McCain argues that Qaeda militants, operating with Iraqi Sunnis, gained a foothold in the chaos that followed the ouster of Saddam Hussein.
 ''I agreed with both General Petraeus and Osama bin Laden, who both said that Iraq was the central battleground in this struggle,'' Mr. McCain said. ''And I also believe that Afghanistan is going to be a longer struggle in some respects. But the most important thing was that if we failed in Iraq, that it would have had adverse consequences throughout the region.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama meeting with the Iraqi prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, in July. Mr. Obama says he would withdraw most combat troops from Iraq over 16 months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THAIER AL-SUDANI/REUTERS)
Senator John McCain, seen meeting with Mr. Maliki in March, says he would give the American military commander in Iraq considerable latitude in setting force levels there. (POOL PHOTO BY CEERWAN AZIZ)
 PHOTOS (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMED FORCES (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); TERRORISM (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); DAVID PETRAEUS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



250 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Lauder Opposes Mayor on Permanent Change to Term Limits

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
Ronald S. Lauder, the billionaire cosmetics heir and term limits champion, said Sunday night that he would vigorously oppose a plan, outlined by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and City Council members, to permanently change the city's term limits law to allow 12 years in office rather than 8.
 His opposition jeopardizes a carefully constructed alliance that was considered key to Mr. Bloomberg's bid for a third term. 
 Mr. Lauder, under pressure from friends and Mr. Bloomberg himself, said early last week that he would agree to a temporary revision of the term limits law, which would allow current officeholders to serve three four-year terms. 
 Mr. Lauder, who bankrolled the 1993 campaign to create term limits in New York City, pointed to the deepening financial crisis, which he said required Mr. Bloomberg's steady hand.
 But when Mr. Bloomberg, a fellow billionaire, and Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn announced last Thursday a plan to allow the City Council to revise the law, Mr. Lauder was upset to learn that they envisioned a permanent change, rather than a one-time exception. 
 ''If there is a permanent change, I will fight it,'' Mr. Lauder said in a telephone interview on Sunday night. ''As far as I am concerned, it's a one-time only exception. That is it.''
 Mr. Lauder said he expressed concern to Mr. Bloomberg on Friday in a telephone conversation. Mr. Bloomberg suggested that Mr. Lauder sit on a charter revision commission, which would study the issue in 2010 and probably put it up for a referendum. 
 But Mr. Lauder said that if he joined a charter commission, he would insist that the law keep term limits at 8 years, not 12.
 ''It took a lot of emotion even to extend term limits this once,'' Mr. Lauder said. ''I was opposed to even extending it once. For the love of this city, I will do it once, but that is it.''
 City lawyers have argued that a one-time extension of term limits could be seen as self-serving to the legislators who pass it and more vulnerable to a legal challenge. 
 ''I am sure there are legal issues,'' Mr. Lauder said, ''but I am sure there are ways around it.''
 He insisted that he would like the mayor to remain in office for a third term, but said that he could not endorse a permanent change to a three-term limit. 
 A spokesman for Mr. Lauder said that should the City Council adopt such a permanent change, he would consider opening his wallet to oppose it with advertisements, as he has in the past.
 Jason Post, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, said, ''We will not seek a one-time extension of term limits and will work to put the issue on the ballot in November of 2010.''
 Mr. Lauder's displeasure was echoed on the steps of City Hall on Sunday by a parade of community activists, lawyers, politicians and citizens who denounced Mayor Bloomberg's proposal, perhaps a preview of the coming political and legal battles. 
 There were complaints about deals between Mr. Bloomberg and what one city councilman described as the city's ''tycoons and magnates.'' More than one speaker raised the specter of Tammany Hall. One protester, a teacher, complained that the mayor was providing a poor civics lesson, and a state senator, Eric Adams, summed up the growing discontent -- and drew the loudest cheers -- by comparing Mr. Bloomberg to an athlete who was running out of time. 
 ''Don't become a political, punch-drunk boxer that believes you're the only one who can bring home the crown,'' he said. ''It's over.''
 In the last year, as Mr. Bloomberg considered whether to seek a way to run for a third term, he and his advisers considered Mr. Lauder an obstacle who had to be overcome. Without the billionaire's support, they concluded, any challenge to the city's term limits law would trigger a nasty and expensive fight. 
 Mr. Lauder made his feelings known in early September, spending $50,000 on an acerbic television commercial that compared the city's elected leaders to diapers that needed to be changed. The message was clear: Mr. Lauder would vigorously defend term limits and would spend whatever it took. 
 So Mr. Bloomberg began a broad charm offensive to change Mr. Lauder's mind. The mayor and his friends in the business world repeatedly called and met with Mr. Lauder, imploring him to reconsider his position, especially as the city's economy became imperiled by the worldwide financial crisis. The city was facing an emergency, they told Mr. Lauder, and it was necessary to find a way to give Mr. Bloomberg the chance to serve for a third term.
 Still, in the days since Mr. Bloomberg made his intentions public, opposition has been building with some City Council members planning to propose legislation challenging the mayor's plan. 
 A bill that Councilman David I. Weprin was to introduce Tuesday would require that any changes to term limits be done only through a referendum. Another bill sponsored by the council members Bill de Blasio and Letitia James, calls for a citywide referendum to be held in the spring. 
 The mayor, traveling in Germany, told reporters that ''all we're talking about is expanding the choices that the public has in the general election. Nothing that is proposed to be done by the City Council or would be done in a referendum would take away choice from the public.'' 
 Legislation supported by Mr. Bloomberg that would modify term limits through a Council vote, allowing dozens of officials to serve a third four-year term, was also supposed to be introduced in the Council on Tuesday.
 Outside City Hall on Sunday, the civil rights lawyer Norman Siegel said he was ''exploring the possibility of challenging what the mayor and City Council speaker are planning to do.'' 
 ''We are putting together a legal team this week,'' he added. ''We had hoped Lauder would provide the resources.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); LAWYERS (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



251 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 532 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC STRAINS SPREAD European nations scrambled Sunday night to keep the credit crisis from bringing down major banks and scaring savers, as evidence of growing financial strains appeared to be causing recessions in major economies on three continents. 
 CONSUMER SPENDING SLOWS In response to the falling value of their homes and high gasoline prices, consumers appear to have cut back sharply on their spending, all but guaranteeing that the economic situation will get worse before it gets better. [A1.]
 LEHMAN'S LAST DAYSRichard S. Fuld Jr., the chief executive of Lehman Brothers, listed a dozen possible ways to save the company last summer, but in the end, none of them worked. [B1.] 
 REMAKING MORTGAGES The Countrywide Financial Corporation has agreed to the largest program ever to modify home loans as part of a settlement with state officials. [B1.] 
 A MAYOR'S END RUN By rounding up the support of business leaders, particularly newspaper publishers, Michael Bloomberg is making an end run around the voters in his push for a third term as mayor. The Media Equation: David Carr [B1.]
 FINANCIER'S ECHO Their times and personalities are vastly different, of course. But J. Pierpont Morgan's role in the Panic of 1907 has its echo in Warren E. Buffett's actions during the current financial troubles. [B1.]
 FEARING AN AD DEAL The advertising partnership between Google and Yahoo is raising resentment and fear among some of the biggest players in the advertising industry -- the very customers that Google needs to keep expanding its business. [B1.]
 THE SURGING DOLLAR The value of the dollar is surging even as stock markets swoon, credit remains frozen, and some foreign officials are predicting that the United States will lose its status as a financial superpower. [B4.]
 ARBITRATION DEBATE Businesses praise arbitration in their contracts, but a new study found they use it in contracts with consumers more than with other businesses. [B4.]
 UNRAVELING DNA A start-up company called Complete Genomics says it will start charging $5,000 next year for determining the sequence of the genetic code that makes up the DNA in one set of human chromosomes. [B5.]
 CABLE DISPUTETime Warner Cable sent its TV subscribers to the Internet last week in a tactic intended to win customer favor in its dispute with LIN TV. [B6.] 
 JUST THE FACTS The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation told its opinion writers last week to stick to the facts after a columnist ridiculed the looks of Sarah Palin and the sexual abilities of Republican men. [B6.]
 NEW FILM COMPANY The movie executives Steven Spielberg, David Geffen and Stacey Snider, left, formally severed their ties with Paramount Pictures, ending a sometimes stormy three-year tenure and clearing the way for a new film company they have had in the works. [B6.]
 PLASTICS AND TAP WATER Makers of tap water filters have benefited from environmental campaigns against plastic bottles and, in response to criticism that their filters are not recycled, have started a public relations campaign of their own. [B6.]
 HIRE A HOST As television game shows multiply, actors looking for a route to stardom are lining up to be hosts. [B6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); DNA (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WRITERS (88%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); MAYORS (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); GENOMICS (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%); STARTUPS (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (57%); GASOLINE PRICES (57%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (53%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); GOOGLE INC (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); CANADIAN BROADCASTING CORP (62%); COMPLETE GENOMICS INC (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); GNOM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); NAICS541712 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE PHYSICAL, ENGINEERING & LIFE SCIENCES (EXCEPT BIOTECHNOLOGY) (52%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (52%)

PERSON: STACEY SNIDER (55%); RICHARD S FULD (55%); SARAH PALIN (52%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%); DAVID GEFFEN (51%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (50%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008



252 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Two Economies

BYLINE: ANNISSA HAMBOUZ


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students use resources from The New York Times to compare the circumstances under which the Great Depression came about to the circumstances of the current economic crisis. 

 BODY:
Overview: In this lesson, students use resources from The New York Times to compare the circumstances under which the Great Depression came about to the circumstances of the current economic crisis.
Author(s):
Annissa Hambouz, The New York Times Learning Network
Suggested Time Allowance: 1-2 class periods.
Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up/Do Now: [Note to Teacher: While the causes and effects of the current crisis are numerous and complex, for the purposes of this lesson you should focus on the market. For background information about how the stock market declines, see "Market Crash" at About.com (http://useconomy.about.com/od/glossary/g/Market_Crash.htm) See Additional Learning Network Resources, below, for related lessons that can provide further detail.]
In their journals, in pairs or in small groups, students might respond to the prompt, "What words, phrases, images and ideas come to mind when you hear the term "stock market crash"?
After several minutes, have students share their responses, and, if necessary, engage the class in a brief discussion on the stock market. What can make the stock market collapse or "crash"? Be sure to correct any misinformation that students may have about the stock market, and then ask what students have heard about the role of the stock market in the current economic crisis.
Some students may be familiar with some of the comparisons drawn between the current instability on Wall Street and past market woes. Explain that they will be examining the similarities and differences between the 1929 stock market crash and the circumstances that led to the Great Depression and the market conditions today. Could the current economic downturn lead to another Great Depression?
2. ARTICLE QUESTIONS: As a class, read and discuss the article "Lesson From a Crisis: When Trust Vanishes, Worry," (), focusing on the following:
a. How does David Leonhardt use the story of Meyer Mishkin to illustrate the connection between the Great Depression and today's economic uncertainty?
b. Underline and number the economic conditions and events that occurred between October 1929 and 1933.
c. Circle all of the references to the economic conditions and events of the last 13 months.
d. How does the issue of "trust" relate to both past and present economic conditions?
e. Based on the evidence presented, do you think another Great Depression is possible? Why or why not?
3. ACTIVITY: Now that students have analyzed some of the similarities and differences between past and present economic crises, have them work individually or in groups to complete a Venn Diagram comparing the two. (You might have students use our version, found here, either by printing it out or by typing their answers into the form itself and saving it: http://graphics8.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/studentactivity/Venn_Diagram.pdf.)
Label the diagram "1929 Stock Market Crash/Great Depression" on one side, and "Today's Economic Crisis" on the other. They may begin filling out their diagrams using the information presented in "Lesson From a Crisis: When Trust Vanishes, Worry." Once students have entered all information, have them share and discuss overlaps and differences between the two eras. What information do they still need in order to draw an informed conclusion about the possibility that today's economic downturn could lead to another Great Depression?
4. FOR HOMEWORK OR FUTURE CLASSES: Have students continue investigating and comparing past and present economic conditions on their Venn diagrams by exploring a variety of New York Times resources. They might begin with the the following articles, then go on to some of those listed in Related Times Resources below.
-"Partying Like It's 1929" (http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/21/opinion/21krugman.html)
-"Depression You Say? Check Those Safety Nets" (http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/23/weekinreview/23duhigg.html)
-"A Pause to Recall the 1987 Crash" (http://www.nytimes.com/2007/10/14/business/yourmoney/14mark.html)
Related Times Resources:

        
NYTIMES.COM ARTICLES AND MULTIMEDIA:
http://video.on.nytimes.com/?fr_story=6e955c67a19791605b18eb8131fe31b4c0eb6252
Video: Echoes of a Dismal Past
How does the current financial crisis compare with the Great Depression?
http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2008/09/27/business/economy/20080927_WEEKS_TIMELINE.html
Five Weeks of Financial Turmoil
An interactive timeline of the latest developments in the economic crisis.
http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2008/10/01/business/20081002-crisis-graphic.html
How the Credit Crisis Unfolded
An interactive graphic on the economic events of mid-September 2008.
http://www.nytimes.com/imagepages/2008/09/16/business/16primer.span.ready.html
A Primer on the Financial Crisis
A graphic feature that traces evolution of the economic conditions over the past decade.
        
LEARNING NETWORK RESOURCES:
http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/lessons/20061019thursday.html
Lesson Plan: Taking Stock
Understanding the Terminology Associated with the Stock Market
http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/lessons/19991018monday.html
Lesson Plan: Taking Stock in the Past for the Future
Examining the Causes and Effects of the 1929 Stock Market Crash Through News Coverage in The New York Times
http://www.nytimes.com/learning/issues_in_depth/economics.html
Teaching with The Times: Understanding Economics
A collection of materials for complementing classroom curriculum on the economy.
http://www.nytimes.com/learning/students/quiz/crash.html
News Quiz: The '29 Crash
        
ARCHIVAL TIMES MATERIALS:
http://www.nytimes.com/learning/general/onthisday/big/1029.html#article
Stocks Collapse In 16,410,030-share Day, But Rally At Close Cheers Brokers; Bankers Optimistic, To Continue Aid
Historical Times article from Oct. 29, 1929
http://www.nytimes.com/learning/general/onthisday/big/1019.html#article
Stocks Plunge 508 Points, A Drop of 22.6%; 604 Million Volume Doubles Record; More About the Markets
Historical Times article from Oct. 19, 1987
        
TIMES TOPICS:
http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/g/great_depression_1930s/index.html
The Great Depression
http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/n/new_york_stock_exchange/index.html
The New York Stock Exchange
http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/s/securities_and_exchange_commission/index.html
United States Securities and Exchange Commission
http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/e/economic_conditions_and_trends/index.html
Economic Conditions and Trends
http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/u/united_states_economy/index.html
United States Economy
        
OTHER RESOURCES:
http://www.moneyinstructor.com/investing.asp
Money Instructor
Investing and stock market lesson plans and worksheets
http://life.familyeducation.com/history-of-economics/money-and-kids/47968.html
Family Education: What to Teach Your Kids About the Economy Information on inflation, unemployment, interest rates and moreInterdisciplinary Connections:
Language Arts - Write a one- to two-page response to the following prompt: "Based on the evidence you have gathered about past and present economic crises, do you think another Great Depression is possible? Why or why not?"
Mathematics - Investigate and report on the difference between point and percentage drops on the stock market. How did the events of Sept. 29, 2008 compare with those of Oct. 29, 1929?Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8, 9-12
Economics Standard 2- Understands characteristics of different economic systems, economic institutions and economic incentives.
Economics Standard 3- Understands the concept of prices and the interaction of supply and demand in a market economy.
Civics Standard 29- Understands the importance of political leadership, public service and a knowledgeable citizenry in American constitutional democracy.
Language Arts Standard 4 - Gathers and uses information for research purposes.

        
Lesson From a Crisis: When Trust Vanishes, Worry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (91%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HISTORY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); WRITERS (77%); EVIDENCE (50%) American Government; American History; Civics; Economics; Global Economics; History of North America

COMPANY: ABOUT.COM INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2011



253 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Fed Weighs Bid to Spur Economy as Markets Plummet Worldwide

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Mr. Andrews reported from Washington and Mr. Grynbaum from New York. Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As pressure built in the credit markets and stocks spiraled lower around the world on Monday, the Federal Reserve was considering a radical new plan to jump-start the engine of the financial system. 
 Under a proposal being discussed with the Treasury Department, the Fed could buy vast amounts of the unsecured short-term debt that companies rely on to finance their day-to-day activities, according to officials familiar with the discussions. If this were to happen, the central bank would come closer than ever to lending directly to businesses. 
 While the move would put more taxpayer dollars at risk, it underscores the growing sense of urgency felt by policy makers in a climate where lending has virtually dried up. 
 The plan was being formulated amid cascading losses in global stock markets, as the banking crisis spread across Europe and investors feared dire consequences for the world economy. The Dow Jones industrial average fell as much as 800 points before a late recovery, finishing down 369.88, below 10,000 points for the first time since 2004. 
 Even before bankers on Wall Street reached their desks, European stocks were plunging. The Russian stock market dropped 19.1 percent, the biggest decline since the fall of the Soviet Union. Major indexes in London and Frankfurt lost more than 7 percent; stocks in Paris fell by 9 percent. Stocks in Latin America and other emerging economies took their worst collective tumble in a decade.
 Volatility reached the highest level in two decades, and oil prices fell below $90 for the first time since February. 
 The contagion showed no signs of stopping when Asian markets opened Tuesday morning as the Nikkei index of Japanese stocks fell 3 percent and the Hang Seng index of stocks in Hong Kong fell 5 percent. 
 ''There is a growing recognition that not only has the credit crunch refused to be contained, it continues to spread,'' said Ed Yardeni, an investment strategist. ''It's gone truly global.''
 Investors are worried about what the evaporation of credit will do to an already-weakened global economy. 
 In the United States, consumers appear to be significantly curbing spending; last month, employers cut more jobs than any month in five years. The $6 decline in oil prices, which settled at $87.81 a barrel, stemmed in part from fears that demand will slacken in the face of a deteriorating economy.
 The Fed plan is intended to renew the flow of credit on which the economy depends. Under its plan, the central bank would buy unsecured commercial paper, essentially short-term i.o.u.'s issued by banks, businesses and municipalities. 
 The market for that kind of debt has all but shut down in the last week, with many major corporations unable to borrow for longer than a day at a time, as banks become more fearful of giving out cash. The volume of such debt totaled about $1.6 trillion as of Oct. 1, down 11 percent from three weeks earlier.
 These credit fears persisted over the weekend despite the $700 billion bailout package that Congress approved last week. 
 The cost of borrowing from banks and corporations remained high on Monday, increased in part by a series of high-profile bank bailouts in Europe, where governments scrambled to save several major lenders from collapse.
 The United States government appears to be pressing ahead with other radical efforts to shore up the financial system, even wading into corners of the markets where it has rarely interfered. 
 Buying commercial paper could open the Fed to difficult conflicts of interest, because it would be juggling the goals of protecting its investment portfolio with its traditional goals of promoting stable prices and low unemployment.
 ''The Federal Reserve really would become the buyer of last resort, trying to jump-start the commercial paper market by taking on credit risk,'' said Vincent Reinhart, a former top Fed official who worked under Alan Greenspan, a former Fed chairman, and Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman now.
 The Federal Reserve has already stretched its resources to the limit by providing hundreds of billions of dollars in short-term loans to banks, Wall Street firms and money market funds. 
 On Monday, the Fed announced that it would once again redouble one of its key emergency lending programs, increasing the size of its Term Auction Facility to $600 billion, from $300 billion. On top of that, the central bank plans to provide an additional $300 billion to banks to meet their end-of-the-year cash needs.
 To pay for its burgeoning responsibilities, the Fed has no choice but to keep printing more money. To prevent that flood of new money from reducing the central bank's overnight interest rate to zero, the Fed also announced on Monday that it would start paying interest on the excess reserves that banks keep on deposit at the Fed.
 Paying interest on reserves allows the central bank to set a floor on interest rates and retain at least some control over monetary policy. 
 In its announcement on Monday, the Fed said it would pay an interest rate of 1.25 percent --three-quarters of a point below its target of 2 percent for the overnight Federal funds rate. 
 But the possibility of propping up the vast market for commercial paper could represent an undertaking even broader than the Treasury Department's plan to buy as much as $700 billion in mortgage-backed securities.
 In statements on Monday morning, the Federal Reserve and the Treasury said they were ''consulting with market participants on ways to provide additional support for term unsecured funding markets.''
 By referring to ''unsecured funding markets,'' policy makers signaled that they wanted to intervene directly in the credit markets. Officials said on Monday evening that they wanted to finish a plan as quickly as possible, perhaps as early as Tuesday. 
 But the effort is fraught with legal complexities. Though the Federal Reserve has sweeping power to create money and lend it out, experts said it was normally prohibited from buying assets that could lose money. 
 One way around that legal limitation would be to provide money to a separate legal entity that would do the buying and investing on the Fed's behalf. That would be similar to Maiden Lane Funding L.L.C., a special-purpose entity that officials created last spring to hold $29 billion in hard-to-sell securities from Bear Stearns. 
 But so far, the myriad efforts by government regulators to shore up confidence have seemed to yield little relief among investors, some of whom believed the actions have taken on a haphazard air.
 ''People are slowly but surely coming to the realization that playing 'Whack-a-Mole' with each of these issues as they arise, on an ad hoc basis, doesn't get the job done,'' said Max Bublitz, chief strategist at SCM Advisors, an investment firm in San Francisco. 
 On Wall Street, Monday was a frightening day for investors -- the type of day where a 369-point deficit in the Dow is considered a relief. 
 A broad sell-off began at the opening bell and intensified throughout the morning. After 2 p.m., the Dow was down a hair over 800 points, worse than the 777-point drop one week earlier. 
 But around 2:30, investors began to hunt for bargains, sending the Dow briefly back above the 10,000 mark, before finishing the day at 9,955.50. The broader stock market closed down 3.9 percent, as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Shares of financial firms, manufacturing outfits and industrial companies all fell sharply. The Dow has lost 1,187 points, about 10.7 percent, and the S. & P. almost 13 percent in a week. 
 The sharp slide on Monday came despite assurances from President Bush that it would ''take a while to restore confidence to the financial system.''
 ''We don't want to rush into this situation and have the program not be effective.'' 
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of 72-day cash management bills and three-month and six-month bills.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about stock markets that fell around the globe referred incorrectly to the performance of the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong. The Hang Seng fell 5 percent at the opening of markets on Monday morning -- not Tuesday morning, when it was closed for a holiday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: CREDIT MARKETS STAYED TIGHT ... SOW ENDED BELOW 10,000 ... AND THE WORLD MARKETS FELL AMID FEARS OF BANKING INSTABILITY AND GLOBAL RECESSION (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.A1)
INDICATORS OF THE CREDIT CRISIS
3-MONTH TREASURY BILLS (Source: The Bond Buyer)
THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Source: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (76%); BANK FAILURES (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



254 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Economic Downturn Isn't Slowing Luxury Box Sales

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS and RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
With the economy in crisis and Wall Street in turmoil, will local sports teams be forced to place vacancy signs on the scores of luxury suites being built in their new stadiums?
 Don't expect a stampede for the bleachers just yet, several team executives and industry observers said recently. They noted that the concentration of corporate headquarters in New York -- combined with the marquee appeal of locations like Yankee Stadium -- meant that demand for luxury suites was not likely to fade anytime soon. At some of the new stadiums, the suites are already sold out.
 ''New York is going to get hit harder by financial sectors than other cities will, but New York's also got a lot of other stuff going on,'' said Jim Grinstead, the editor and publisher of Revenues from Sports Venues, a weekly newsletter that chronicles the luxury-suite industry. ''I'm not hearing anything where people are panicking.'' 
 New York is in the midst of a great stadium-building boom, with plans for at least five under way in the metropolitan area. The Yankees and the Mets will begin playing in new ballparks in the spring. In New Jersey, the Jets and the Giants are planning a football stadium that is scheduled to open in 2010. Construction has begun on the Red Bulls' soccer stadium in Harrison, N.J. In Brooklyn, the developer Bruce C. Ratner is planning a $950 million arena for the Nets. Madison Square Garden is planning major renovations.
 Taken together, the venues will add at least 250 luxury boxes to the New York market, which has 426 boxes, according to Grinstead's count. With its array of new luxury suites, New York is catching up with a decades-long trend toward offering deluxe entertainment areas that are as much about deal making and networking as they are about watching the game. Still, given the economic crisis, companies are certain to be taking a closer look at spending on amenities like luxury suites. 
 ''I definitely think everybody's taking more of a wait-and-see approach,'' said Todd Parker, the vice president of Premier Partnerships, a sports marketing firm that deals in sponsorships and luxury suites. ''Obviously, there's more to unfold here.''
 The luxury-suite market is intensively secretive. Teams are reticent to comment about sales for fear of tipping off their competition. Corporate executives are wary of criticism from investors, who may balk at the idea of spending money on luxury boxes during lean times.
 After layoffs, entertainment expenses are among the first trims to be made in an economic downturn, said Jeffrey Vanderbeek, the owner of the Devils and a former investment banker at Lehman Brothers, which declared bankruptcy Sept. 15. 
 Nearly a year ago, Vanderbeek opened the Prudential Center, the Devils' new arena, and quickly sold nearly all of its 76 suites; six are rented on a day-by-day basis. Because the suites are leased on five- to seven-year contracts, Vanderbeek said, he did not anticipate being affected by the immediate crisis.
 Executives at Yankee Stadium are monitoring the economic situation but have not seen any effect, said Alice McGillion, a spokeswoman. She did not provide specific sales figures, but the luxury suites are nearly sold out, according to news reports. The same is true at the Mets' Citi Field, said Dave Howard, the team's executive vice president for business operations. 
 ''Timing is a part of this,'' he said. ''The firms we've sold to haven't had any major issues, and the people who have them realize they've got great value for the quality of what we're offering here.''
 Teams whose stadiums are further from completion face more uncertainty, Grinstead said. In particular, he said the Nets' project faced competition from arenas like Madison Square Garden. ''That's where the sales challenge is,'' he said.
 But Barry Baum, a Ratner spokesman, said that about 30 percent of the 128 planned suites were leased. Once ground is broken for the arena next year, ''we expect to have a flurry of interest,'' Baum said. 
 Grinstead and others said the concentration of corporate headquarters -- 89 Fortune 500 companies are based in the tristate area -- contributed to the high demand for suites. New York also has a smaller supply than other cities, like Dallas, which has 852 suites, Grinstead said.
 Finally, there is the cost. At prices that range from $200,000 to as much as $800,000 a year, the rent can seem stratospheric to the typical fan. But the cost to major corporations seems to be weighed by another measure.
 ''At the end of the day,'' Vanderbeek said, ''if your competition is going to do it and you're going to have clients going there on behalf of your competition, you tend to want to keep up with the Joneses.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SOCCER (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); TRENDS (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (63%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); NEW YORK METS (55%); NEW JERSEY NETS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



255 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Wired for Justice

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
Last month a Georgia woman named DeShan Fishel was driving near a school and saw a Jeep rush past a stop signal on a school bus, clipping a 5-year-old boy. The other driver sped away.
 Ms. Fishel whipped a U-turn and gave chase. She stayed with the Jeep on surface streets and caught the driver on a highway in Dawson County, Ga., making him pull over. She watched the driver until police officers arrived.
 ''All I could think about was that little kid, getting hit, and this person getting away with it,'' Ms. Fishel said at a news conference. ''It just really upset me.''
 The public urge for punishment that helped delay the passage of Washington's economic rescue plan is more than a simple case of Wall Street loathing, according to scientists who study the psychology of forgiveness and retaliation. The fury is based in instincts that have had a protective and often stabilizing effect on communities throughout human history. Small, integrated groups in particular often contain members who will stand up and -- often at significant risk to themselves -- punish cheaters, liars and freeloaders. 
 Scientists debate how common these citizen enforcers are, and whether an urge to punish infractions amounts to an overall gain or loss, given that it is costly for both parties. But recent research suggests that in individuals, the fairness instinct is a highly variable psychological impulse, rising and falling in response to what is happening in the world. And there is strong evidence that it hardens in times of crisis and uncertainty, like the current one. 
 The catch in this highly sensitive system, most researchers agree, is that it most likely evolved to inoculate small groups against invasive rogues, and not to set right the excesses of a vast and wildly diverse community like the American economy. Some experts believe that Japan's disastrous delay in bailing out its banks in the early 1990s was caused in part by a collective urge to punish corrupt bankers, and they fear a similar outcome today.
 ''The urge to take revenge or punish cheaters,'' said Michael McCullough, a professor of psychology at the University of Miami and author of the book ''Beyond Revenge: The Evolution of the Forgiveness Instinct,'' ''is not a disease or toxin or sign that something has gone wrong. From the point of view of evolution, it's not a problem but a solution.'' 
 The downside of these instincts, Dr. McCullough added, ''is that they often promote behavior that turns out to be spiteful in the long run.'' 
 The urge to punish is not restricted to humans. Researchers have found evidence of self-protective retaliation, or revenge, and third-party, or ''moralistic,'' punishment in many of nature's diverse niches. When a predatory fish is near, shoals of guppies typically send out scouting parties of several members to see whether the bigger fish is hungry -- to assess the threat. The members of the scouting team take turns approaching the big fish, sharing the risk. 
 Biologists have found that if one member of the scouting party lags in taking its turn, the fish in front of it will loop behind and not budge from its position, forcing the reluctant member to contribute.
 Examples of Good Samaritan justice are abundant in traditional, remote societies where state institutions are absent. In some Inuit villages, said Edie Turner, a professor of anthropology at the University of Virginia, tribe members will shout disapproval at someone who is stealing or cheating, sometimes casting a public curse on the person that can be removed only in a ceremony conducted by tribal elders. ''And this shout, this utterance -- well, it's more like a blast,'' she said. ''The one time I witnessed an Inuit woman do this to someone, the blast practically ricocheted off of me.''
 Given the choice, most people prefer that others do the hard work of enforcement, recent research has found. Scientists often study cooperation and punishment by having participants play one-on-one investment games in which each player chooses how much money to pony up in a joint investment, without knowing up front how much the other person will contribute. If both contribute a lot, they maximize their profits. If one snubs the other's contribution, or ''defects,'' he or she is guaranteed a good profit and the other gets nothing. 
 Researchers adjust the costs and benefits of this game, as well as the number of times people play each other. And often another feature is added: an option to punish the other person, say, by spending a dollar to dock his or her earnings by two dollars.
 In a series of such experiments, Jeffrey P. Carpenter and Peter Hans Matthews, economists at Middlebury College in Vermont, have found that depending on the costs of imposing penalties and the circumstances, 10 to 40 percent of people will act on their referee instincts. 
 ''The urge to punish seems very strong,'' Dr. Carpenter said. ''Some people will spend money to punish even if it has no effect on them -- if they're watching players in another game and can penalize people. They're inequality averse, it seems.'' The researchers have found similar results across several cultures, including in Japan and Southeast Asia. 
 The conscious psychological motive for this behavior, regardless of its effect, is typically not deterrence but what some psychologists call just-desserts retribution. In a landmark 2002 study, psychologists at Princeton University had more than 1,000 participants evaluate vignettes describing various crimes and misdemeanors, and give sentencing recommendations. The psychologists found that people very carefully tailored their recommended sentences to the details of the infraction, its brutality and the record of the perpetrator. That is, people valued punishment for its own sake, as a measured consequence for behavior, not as a deterrent. 
 In a study published last year, University of Pennsylvania psychologists demonstrated how easy it was to influence how often, or how intensely, people acted on such urges to punish. The researchers had students participate in several variations of the investment game. Afterward, another group of students entered the laboratory, examined the results of earlier games and had the option to punish players who they thought deserved it. 
 A striking pattern emerged among these judges. When allowed to mete out their punishments anonymously, they docked players' earnings very little -- about one dollar on average, or 10 percent of the allowed maximum. But when being watched by the researchers and other participants, the judges' fines tripled in value. ''This suggests that when given the opportunity to punish third parties, people don't do it much,'' said Robert Kurzban, who conducted the study with Peter DeScioli and Erin O'Brien. ''They may be happy to see others do it, but they don't like to do it themselves.''
 The sense of betrayal Americans feel toward Wall Street, and the financial tumult's effects on 401(k) accounts and small businesses, has certainly made many people less laissez-faire in their attitudes toward punishment, Dr. Kurzban said. And there is nothing anonymous about the debates over the economic rescue plan, whether in Congress or at the water cooler: people are stating their views to an audience, and the collective fairness instinct is stoked to high heat. 
 Fortunately for the economy, researchers say, a strong countervailing psychological force is also at work: the instinct to forgive, and to cooperate. Punishments are balanced by peace offerings, and in fact researchers have come close to calculating the rough ratio most people employ.
 Running thousands of computervariations of the investment game, scientists have found that the strategies that pay off the most are tipped toward cooperation. 
 One of the most successful strategies is the simplest one: tit for tat. With this strategy the player, or computer program, cooperates up front, and continues to do so, as long as its partner does the same. If the partner defects, so does tit for tat. Another strategy, called generous tit for tat, also thrives in some conditions, by offering unconditional forgiveness about a third of the time.
 Yet another, called firm but fair, does well using a strategy that cooperates up front, retaliates against defectors, but returns quickly to cooperation with the same partner, a pattern Dr. McCullough describes as ''nice, vindictive, willing to let bygones be bygones.'' 
 The upshot of all this, researchers say, is that human beings prefer cooperation, both in their individual makeup and in the makeup of their social groups. In a recent study, Dr. McCullough found that the urge for revenge against personal betrayals erodes in the same way some kinds of memory do: sharply in the first few weeks, slowly thereafter. 
 ''The forgiveness instinct is every bit as wired in as the revenge instinct,'' he said. ''It seems that our minds work very hard to get away from resentment, if we can.''
 Not that people are ready to give Bear Stearns a bear hug. But with time, they might be ready to let all the bears and bulls extract their feet from the traps they set. And then to watch, as Ms. Fishel did, until the authorities arrive to impose some discipline.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY THE HEADS OF STATE) (pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); WRITERS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



256 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 436 words

 BODY:
CRISIS GRIPS WORLD MARKETS Markets around the world declined sharply as the banking crisis tightened its hold on the global economy. 
 FEAR ENGULFS MARKETS The drop in stock markets abroad reflected fears about the bailout and that the world is headed into a recession. [A1.] 
 ENDURING THE WORST We woke up, hoping for the best but bracing for the worst. And we got the worst -- again. Talking Business: Joe Nocera. [A1.] 
 TESTY LEHMAN HEARING In testimony before a House committee, Richard S. Fuld Jr., below, took full responsibility for the failure of Lehman Brothers and said his decisions ''were both prudent and appropriate.'' That irked the committee. [B1.]
 FIGHTING FOR THE EURO European governments want to protect bank deposits, but have no coordinated policy to break the grip of the credit crisis. [B1.] 
 PUNISHMENT AT S.E.C.? A federal inquiry has concluded that the Securities and Exchange Commission should consider disciplining its director of enforcement and two supervisors for their roles in a botched insider trading investigation. [B1.] 
 EMERGING MARKETS PLUMMET Emerging markets endured one of their biggest collective stock tumbles in a decade as hints of panic in European markets spread. [B1.] 
 TROUBLE FOR FORMER WHIZ KID Kenneth C. Griffin was once a Wall Street whiz kid. Now the Citadel Group of Chicago, the giant hedge fund that Mr. Griffin has run for nearly 20 years, is seeping money. [B1.]
 I.R.S. OFFERS AID The Internal Revenue Service has started a new program that will let corporations increase their use of tax-free loans from overseas subsidiaries. [B11.] 
 OIL DROPS BELOW $90 For the first time since February, oil prices have fallen below $90 a barrel. [B9.]
 IMCLONE IS SOLDEli Lilly will pay $6.5 billion to acquire ImClone Systems, the biotechnology company that is controlled by Carl C. Icahn and whose stock was involved in the insider trading scandal that sent Martha Stewart to jail. [B7.]
 EBAY CUTS AND ADDS Ebay is both cutting 1,000 workers and expanding its reach as it prepares for the coming economic storm. [B3.] 
 FORD'S NEW SAFETY DEVICE Ford Motor has new safety device for its cars: MyKey, which will allow parents to govern speeds and impose other safe-driving habits when their teenage children are using the car. [B3.]
 TRAVEL BARGAINS The economic slowdown has invaded the travel industry and there are some bargains to be had. [B4.]
 TOBACCO ADS ON EXHIBIT Tobacco advertising was once ubiquitous, when celebrities like Mickey Mantle endorsed cigarettes. Now print and television ads for tobacco products are on display in New York. [B3.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (83%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (79%); RECESSION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CHILDREN (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); SCANDALS (72%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); FOREIGN LENDING (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); FORD MOTOR CO (74%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); CITADEL (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (55%); MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



257 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 463 words

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON

 BODY:
AND THEN
 There Was One
 It is once again safe to leave the house on a sunny day without an umbrella: the Street Wars tournament is over, and we have a winner. 
 The three-week squirt gun tournament went into sudden death mode last Monday, its dozen or so remaining players given two ways to win: by squirting the other players until no one else was left, or by squirting the man in charge, Franz Aliquo, who calls himself Supreme Commander. 
 Last Monday, Mr. Aliquo, 32, left his building in Long Island City dressed in his ''depressed businessman'' disguise: ''The salt-and-pepper hair, blue suit, red tie a little loose, dealing with the collapse of the U.S. financial system.''
 Other disguises followed. ''I had 'the hipster,' which required skinny jeans, the white belt, the ever-present trucker cap.'' 
 Supreme dodged his pursuers for most of the week. On Saturday, the game had to end, as the awards party was already scheduled for Sunday, so Mr. Aliquo announced his plans to go shopping at Macy's so they could hunt him there. 
 They did: ''I walked by this guy, I didn't even notice him, and he dropped his bag and pulled out a gun and shot me execution-style.''
 The winner was Agent Aquaman, or in real life, James Yurwitz, 38, a yacht captain at the New York Health and Racquet Club, who played alongside his girlfriend, even in sudden death. 
 ''We didn't really sign a truce or anything,'' he said, ''but it's kind of hard to kill your girlfriend.'' He and more than 100 other players convened at Le Royale in the West Village on Sunday night. Aquaman was presented with a framed squirt gun painted gold and $500 in cash.
 There was just one catch. ''We gave it to him in nickels,'' Mr. Aliquo said. ''It was ridiculously heavy.'' MICHAEL WILSON 
 COMMENT 
 OF THE DAY
 ''Oh, how twee. Life in MommyWorld just gets better and better. How far away from Park Slope is far enough?''
 -- Ellen D. Murphy, on ''Stroller Central, Now With a Valet''
 NEW YORK 
 DAYBOOK
 Debate Parties
 They might not live in a swing state, but many New Yorkers will be tuning in and turning out for the second of three presidential debates. There is a party organized by a coalition of Jewish organizations at the Galapagos Art Space, 16 Main Street, in Dumbo, Brooklyn, at 7 p.m; a New York Young Republican Club gathering at the Houndstooth Pub, 520 Eighth Avenue, at 7 p.m.; and a gathering of Asian-American Obama supporters at Nightingale, 213 Second Avenue, 8 p.m. 
 ALSO 
 ON THE BLOG
 SLIDESHOW: Geologic Time: A slideshow of a plunge pool that glaciers carved out of the bedrock at ground zero.
 Recalling Cardinal Cooke: A Mass to honor an archbishop who died 25 years ago.
 A $240,000 Traffic Jam: Two Maseratis parked in Grand Central, just in time for the Wall Street crisis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mr. Aliquo's online profile 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK HEALTH & RACQUET CLUB INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (66%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



258 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; FINDINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: A Gift From the '70s: Energy Lessons

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
The presidential candidates claim to see America's energy future, but their competing visions have a certain vintage quality. They've revived that classic debate: the hard path versus the soft path.
The soft path, as Amory Lovins defined it in the 1970s, is energy conservation and power from the sun, wind and plants -- the technologies that Senator Barack Obama emphasizes in his plan to reduce greenhouse emissions. Senator John McCain is more enthusiastic about building nuclear power plants, the quintessential hard path.
As a rule, it's not a good idea to revive anything from the 1970s. But this debate is the exception, and not just because the threat of global warming has raised the stakes. The old lessons are as good a guide as any to the future, as William Tucker argues in ''Terrestrial Energy,'' his history of the hard-soft debate. 
The initial debate over nuclear power seemed to end not long after the partial meltdown in 1979 of the reactor at Three Mile Island. Utilities canceled orders and stopped building reactors, partly because of public fears, but perhaps mainly because of rising costs. Mr. Lovins and his allies liked to say that nuclear power, once promoted as ''too cheap to meter,'' had now become ''too expensive to matter.''
The soft path seemed to be the way to go, particularly when some of Mr. Lovins's predictions about energy conservation came true. As Americans cut back in response to higher prices and new incentives, the growth in electricity demand slowed. Some public officials, most enthusiastically in California, told utilities to stop building large power plants. Instead, they subsidized wind farms and solar power, which were supposed to be cheap and plentiful alternatives once the technologies matured.
Instead, they remained so costly and scarce that Californians' electricity rates were among the highest in America. They endured rolling blackouts in 2000 while paying astronomical prices for power from nuclear and fossil-fuel plants in other states. The crisis was attributed to price controls and Enron's market manipulation, but the underlying problem was a shortage of power that forced the state to start building old-fashioned fossil-fuel plants for itself.
Meanwhile, there was a surprise on the hard path, too. Once utilities stopped building reactors, the share of electricity from nuclear power was projected to decline steadily as the oldest reactors were retired. But then several new ''merchant energy'' companies began assembling fleets of reactors sold off by local utilities. The new owners standardized operations, retrained workers and brought in human-factor engineers to redesign the famously indecipherable control panels.
Under the old owners, the reactors were balky white elephants operating only 60 percent of the time. By improving maintenance and preventing mistakes, the new owners kept them running 90 percent of the time and won permission to upgrade their capacities. So even as the nuclear industry was shrinking in the last two decades as the oldest reactors shut down, the remaining ones were profitably generating an increasing share of the country's electricity.
Today about 20 percent of electricity in America is generated by nuclear power, which is about 20 times the contribution from solar and wind power. Nuclear power also costs less, according to Gilbert Metcalf, an economist at Tufts University. After estimating the costs and factoring out the hefty tax breaks for different forms of low-carbon energy, he estimates that new nuclear plants could produce electricity more cheaply than windmills, solar power or ''clean coal'' plants.
The outlook could change, of course, if new nuclear plants turn out to be more expensive than expected, or if engineers make breakthroughs in other technologies. (To debate these possibilities, go to www.nytimes.com/tierneylab.) Given the uncertainties, Dr. Metcalf cautions, it would be risky to bet everything on nuclear power as the answer to global warming.
But it seems even riskier to bet on just the soft path, as so many greens are doing, either by flatly opposing nuclear power or by setting so many conditions that no plants could be built for decades, if ever. (Mr. Obama says nuclear power is necessary but should not be expanded until security and safety issues are addressed.)
''The nuclear debate is still stuck back in the 1980s,'' says Mr. Tucker, the author of ''Terrestrial Energy,'' the new brand he's trying to affix to nuclear power. If people started associating nuclear plants with natural radioactive processes in the Earth instead of atomic bombs, he says, they might be persuaded that it's the most environmentally benign form of energy, particularly compared with wind farms that cover scenic ridges and the vast solar arrays proposed for ''empty'' land in deserts.
Mr. Tucker, a journalist who has been debunking environmental alarms for decades, says he has come around to Al Gore's view on the danger of global warming, and he'd like environmentalists to rethink their views, too.
''Even when greens give grudging support to nuclear power,'' he says, ''they add the caveat, 'But first we have to make sure the plants are absolutely safe' -- as if reactors haven't been operating safely for 25 years. Nobody recognizes the complete overhaul that has occurred in the industry or how it's now pumping out twice as much electricity from the same plants with a vastly improved safety record.''
By scaring people about the tiny levels of radiation emitted during the normal operation of a nuclear plant, Mr. Tucker says, greens have effectively encouraged the construction of coal plants that actually release more radiation because of the traces of uranium in coal dust. He argues that the risks of terrorist attacks and nuclear waste have been exaggerated, particularly by the environmentalists who objected when the Yucca Mountain nuclear-waste depository was being designed to guarantee a level of safety for only 10,000 years.
They successfully sued to enforce a safety standard extending one million years -- which, in an ideal world, would be a very nice standard. But if you believe global warming is a planetary crisis that must be addressed immediately, should you really be obsessing about hypothetical dangers near one mountain in A.D. 1,000,000? If there's already a proven technology that doesn't spew carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, why fiddle while coal burns?

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY VIKTOR KOEN) (pg. D1
 D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); WIND ENERGY (73%); UTILITY RATES (73%); WIND POWER PLANTS (70%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); HUMAN FACTORS ENGINEERING (60%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



259 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Are Bad Times Healthy?

BYLINE: By TARA PARKER-POPE

 BODY:
Most people are worried about the health of the economy. But does the economy also affect your health?
 It does, but not always in ways you might expect. The data on how an economic downturn influences an individual's health are surprisingly mixed. 
 It's clear that long-term economic gains lead to improvements in a population's overall health, in developing and industrialized societies alike. 
 But whether the current economic slump will take a toll on your own health depends, in part, on your health habits when times are good. And economic studies suggest that people tend not to take care of themselves in boom times -- drinking too much (especially before driving), dining on fat-laden restaurant meals and skipping exercise and doctors' appointments because of work-related time commitments. 
 ''The value of time is higher during good economic times,'' said Grant Miller, an assistant professor of medicine at Stanford. ''So people work more and do less of the things that are good for them, like cooking at home and exercising; and people experience more stress due to the rigors of hard work during booms.''
 Similar patterns have been seen in some developing nations. Dr. Miller, who is studying the effects of fluctuating coffee prices on health in Colombia, says that even though falling prices are bad for the economy, they appear to improve health and mortality rates. When prices are low, laborers have more time to care for their children.
 ''When coffee prices suddenly rise, people work harder on their coffee plots and spend less time doing things around the home, including things that are good for their children,'' he said. ''Because the things that matter most for infant and child health in rural Colombia aren't expensive, but require a substantial amount of time -- such as breast-feeding, bringing clean water from far away, taking your child to a distant health clinic for free vaccinations -- infant and child mortality rates rise.''
 In this country, a similar effect appeared in the Dust Bowl during the Great Depression, according to a 2007 paper by Dr. Miller and colleagues in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
 The data seem to contradict research in the 1970s suggesting that in hard times there are more deaths from heart disease, cirrhosis, suicide and homicide, as well as more admissions to mental hospitals. But those findings have not been replicated, and several economists have pointed out flaws in the research.
 In May 2000, the Quarterly Journal of Economics published a surprising paper called ''Are Recessions Good for Your Health?'' by Christopher J. Ruhm, professor of economics at the University of North Carolina, Greensboro, based on an analysis measuring death rates and health behavior against economic shifts and jobless rates from 1972 to 1991.
 Dr. Ruhm found that death rates declined sharply in the 1974 and 1982 recessions, and increased in the economic recovery of the 1980s. An increase of one percentage point in state unemployment rates correlated with a 0.5 percentage point decline in the death rate -- or about 5 fewer deaths per 100,000 people. Over all, the death rate fell by more than 8 percent in the 20-year period of mostly economic decline, led by drops in heart disease and car crashes.
 The economic downturn did appear to take a toll on factors having less to do with prevention and more to do with mental well-being and access to health care. For instance, cancer deaths rose 23 percent, and deaths from flu and pneumonia increased slightly. Suicides rose 2 percent, homicides 12 percent.
 The issue that may matter most in an economic crisis is not related to jobs or income, but whether the slump widens the gap between rich and poor, and whether there is an adequate health safety net available to those who have lost their jobs and insurance.
 During a decade of economic recession in Japan that began in the 1990s, people who were unemployed were twice as likely to be in poor health than those with secure jobs. During Peru's severe economic crisis in the 1980s, infant mortality jumped 2.5 percentage points -- about 17,000 more children who died as public health spending and social programs collapsed.
 In August, researchers from the Free University of Amsterdam looked at health studies of twins in Denmark. They found that individuals born in a recession were at higher risk for heart problems later in life and lived, on average, 15 months less than those born under better conditions.
 Gerard J. van den Berg, an economics professor who was a co-author of the study, said babies in poor households suffered the most in a recession, because their families lacked access to good health care. Poor economic conditions can also cause stress that may interfere with parent bonding and childhood development, he said.
 He noted that other studies had found that recessions can benefit babies by giving their parents more time at home.
 ''This scenario may be relevant for well-to-do families where one of the parents loses a job and the other still brings in enough money,'' he said. ''But in a crisis where the family may have to incur huge housing-cost losses and the household income is insufficient for adequate nutrition and health care, the adverse effects of being born in a recession seem much more relevant.''
 In this country, there are already signs of the economy's effect on health. In May, the market research firm Information Resources reported that 53 percent of consumers said they were cooking from scratch more than they did just six months before -- in part, no doubt, because of the rising cost of prepared foods. At the same time, health insurance costs are rising. With premiums and co-payments, the average employee with insurance pays nearly one-third of medical costs -- about twice as much as four years ago, according to Paul H. Keckley, executive director of the Deloitte Center for Health Solutions.
 In the United States, which unlike other industrialized nations lacks a national health plan, the looming recession may take a greater toll. About 46 million Americans lack health insurance, Dr. Keckley says, and even among the 179 million who have it, an estimated 1 in 7 would be bankrupted by a single health crisis.
 The economic downturn ''is not good news for the health care industry,'' he said. ''There may be slivers of positive, but I view this as sobering.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1936: In hard times, as in the Great Depression, laborers have more time to care for their children.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUSSELL LEE)
1999: In Japan, people who lost jobs and insurance were likely to be in poorer health than those who didn't.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT/SYGMA)
 2008: The rising cost of prepared foods in the United States is forcing people to cook from scratch.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE LEGATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (88%); COFFEE MARKETS (87%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (86%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); COFFEE (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); INFANT MORTALITY (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); VACCINES (64%); BREASTFEEDING (64%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (61%); HOMICIDE (60%); SUICIDE (60%); LIVER DISEASE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (70%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



260 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall Sharply in Asia

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Stock markets fell sharply in early trading on Monday in Asia on growing fears about the health of banks around the world and the prospects for a downturn in Asian exports to the weakening economies of the United States and Europe. 
 The Nikkei 225 Index dropped 4.3 percent in Tokyo by early afternoon on Monday, as waves of selling pushed the index steadily lower. The Kospi Index in Seoul was off 4.4 percent. The Standard and Poor's/Australian Stock Exchange 200 Index in Sydney was down 3.3 percent, the Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong fell 3.4 percent and the Taiex Index in Taiwan declined 4.1 percent. 
 Trading patterns in futures markets suggested that the selloff in Asian markets was a foretaste of another weak opening of trading in the United States on Monday. Futures contracts on the Dow Jones Industrial Averages were pointing to an opening that would be down 165 points, to 10,199, with a fall in the Standard and Poor's 500 Index of 19.2 points, to 1,089.10.
 Nicholas Bibby, an economist in the Singapore office of Barclays Capital, said that falling share prices across the region showed that many investors were still worried that banking difficulties might spread even after the House of Representatives passed a $700 billion economic bailout plan last Friday in Washington.
 ''It's a fear of contagion,'' he said, while adding that Asian banks were better positioned than most to withstand the current problems because the region's high savings rate tends to mean that Asian banks are net lenders in international money markets.
 Concerns about Asian exports have also been rising for months, as the region's high savings rate means that it also has weak spending on consumption and remains heavily dependent on overseas demand.
 CFC Seymour, a Hong Kong securities firm, pointed out in an investment newsletter on Monday that even before recent problems in financial markets, the combined trade balance of Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines had gone from a surplus of $19 billion as recently as last October to a deficit of $2 billion in July. Only China is still running consistently large trade surpluses.
 Currency markets saw a steady weakening of the euro and a rapid rise of the yen as investors worried about Europe's banks and economic health and continued their flight to the apparent stability of Japan's financial system.
 The yen leaped 2 percent against the dollar, which was worth 103.235 by early afternoon on Monday. The strong yen contributed to the fall in share prices for Japanese manufacturers like Sony that depend heavily on exports.
 But even the weakening dollar was stronger in Asia than the euro. The dollar climbed 1.2 percent against the euro, which was worth $1.3609.
 The Shanghai stock exchange, closed for the past week for China's National Day holiday, reopened on Monday with the Shanghai A-share market down 3.5 percent. The Shanghai stock exchange, closed for the past week for China's National Day holiday, reopened on Monday morning with the Shanghai A-share market down 3.5 percent.
 The China Securities Regulatory Commission announced on Sunday that it would experiment with the introduction of short-selling and trading on margin on a limited basis, but did not say when the trial would begin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); FUTURES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JAPANESE YEN (84%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); EURO (68%)

COMPANY: ASX LTD (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%)

TICKER: ASX (ASX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (93%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



261 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: In Tight Times, Many Nonprofits Feel the Pinch as Contributions Dwindle

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
''Could we have picked a worse time for a gala?'' asked Richard J. Moylan, president of Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, regretting the disappointing turnout for the institution's fund-raising dinner on Friday night. He could have spoken for hundreds of nonprofits of all sizes in all boroughs as they confront the high season of the benefit. 
 The city's vast and traditionally overstressed nonprofit community is already reeling from the crisis on Wall Street. ''We have been in perfect storms before,'' said Lorie A. Slutsky, president of the New York Community Trust, which distributed $166 million to 2,500 nonprofits in 2007. 
 But given the cratering economy, ''many charities rely on year-end giving, so they are nervous about the impact of the market turmoil,'' she said, adding that the downturn was having an affect not only on private contributors, foundations, corporations and the availability of credit to nonprofits, but also the viability of government grants and contracts in a time of looming tax-revenue gaps. 
 Beyond providing services to the young, the elderly, the poor and the sick, the city's more than 10,000 nonprofit organizations are estimated to have some $50 billion in annual expenditures and employ at least 500,000 people.
 Some 85 percent of the city's nonprofits have annual budgets under $3 million, ''and most of them don't have endowments or cash reserves,'' said Fran Barrett of the Community Resource Exchange, which provides management and financial help to about 300 community groups. ''Some smaller organizations will have to shut their doors.'' 
 If they do, many of their employees, neighborhood residents, ''will be needing services themselves at a time when there will be less of them,'' she said. 
 The nonprofits most seriously affected by the economic meltdown depended on donations from financial icons brought to their knees by the crisis, including Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, the American International Group and Washington Mutual.
 Citymeals-on-Wheels -- a nonprofit that provides three million meals yearly for more than 18,000 homebound residents through 83 agencies in the five boroughs -- received major support from Bear Stearns and its executives. 
 The loss of these contributions and others from a variety of donors, including a troubled hedge fund -- as well as spiking food and gasoline prices -- forced Citymeals to cancel a $2 million-a-year program in August. For most of a decade, Citymeals had been delivering a second daily meal, in addition to the standard single-meal delivery, to 1,400 people ''who are slipping into malnutrition,'' said Marcia Stein, the group's executive director. 
 During the first week of the financial crisis in mid-September, ''many donors cut their contributions in half,'' Ms. Stein said. ''And after the uncertainty of this week, I shudder to think what will happen next week when we open the mail.'' 
 Similarly, the collapse of Lehman Brothers and other donors affected the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund, and beyond the possible consequences to its budget, the group had been looking forward to a landmark celebration of its 35th anniversary next year. ''The times make it difficult for us to plan now,'' said Margaret Fung, executive director of the fund, which offers educational training and legal assistance to poor Asian immigrants. 
 Both Washington Mutual and Lehman Brothers were donors to the Food Bank for New York City, which works with 1,000 local organizations to provide soup kitchens and food pantries serving 1.3 million New Yorkers. The organization has also suffered a $200,000 cut in state funding. 
 But aside from money, ''much of our volunteer support came from corporations, especially from people in the financial sector,'' said Gregory L. Boroff, a senior vice president at the Food Bank. Yet as volunteers have dwindled, the Food Bank's own community kitchen in Harlem, at 252 West 116th Street near Frederick Douglass Boulevard, has had ''a 35 percent increase in the number of meals served,'' Mr. Boroff said, compared with this time last year. 
 And at the same time, during the last two weeks, the group's direct-mail donor revenues were down 27 percent, he said.
 In Brooklyn, in the heart of the fund-raising season, ''we were expecting 100 to 150 people to join us,'' Mr. Moylan said of the dinner at Green-Wood, the 170-year-old resting place of Boss Tweed and Leonard Bernstein. Gala contributions of $150 to $250 will help pay for preservation, education and community outreach projects. ''We'll only have 70,'' he said under a festive white tent at the event, ''but under the circumstances, we think it's a success.'' 
 In other boroughs, nonprofits are worried, and wary. ''The Bronx has been making such a comeback, and now a lot of hardworking people are going to have the rug pulled out from under them,'' said Bill Aguado, executive director of the Bronx Council on the Arts. 
 Last year the group gave about $500,000 to 80 arts organizations and 70 artists, but going forward ''I am projecting that we will have cuts of from 10 to 30 percent,'' he said. 
 And in many city nonprofits, fears have already been validated. Carol Raphael, the president of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, said the organization had suffered a 3 percent cut in its 2009 New York State funding, amounting to several million dollars. 
 The organization provides a network of home-based services to some 30,000 seriously ill and elderly people in the five boroughs and parts of Westchester and Nassau Counties, and ''all of this is happening while the need for our services is increasing,'' she said. 
 As for nongovernmental donors, some have already told United Neighborhood Houses of New York that ''there will be no new grants in 2009,'' said Nancy Wackstein, executive director of the federation of 35 community centers and settlement houses in five boroughs. 
 Its agencies employ 8,000 people, ''many of whom are low-income,'' Ms. Wackstein said. If there are layoffs, ''fewer people will get services -- and many of the people we employ are one paycheck away from want.'' 
 At least one of its community centers has already been affected by government budget-cutting. On Monday, Stephan Russo, executive director of the Goddard Riverside Community Center on Columbus Avenue and 88th Street, had to inform the staff of Public School 165 that Goddard's 10-year-old Dropout Prevention Program there would have to be closed. The city cut the entire $90,000 budget of the program at the elementary school, at 109th Street between Amsterdam Avenue and Broadway. 
 However, the picture is not universally gloomy. Some established nonprofits have so far eluded the bailout blues. The New York Public Library has not seen a decline in support for its annual Library Lions fund-raising dinner on Nov. 3 for 600 people. A spokesman said the library raised more than $2.6 million for the event, only $50,000 short of its goal. 
 And the New-York Historical Society's History Makers Gala, its annual fund-raiser, which will be held on Oct. 15, has already exceeded its goal of $1.3 million, said Louise Mirrer, the society's president.
 She remains optimistic for the future, thanks to the loyalty of donors and ''because with a maximum admission fee of $10,'' she said, ''we are a bargain.'' 
 But even for organizations that have not suffered funding cuts, it is planning season, ''and we are going to have to be much less ambitious about our next budget than if we hadbeen planning it four weeks ago,'' said Andrew Friedman, a co-executive director of Make the Road New York, a nonprofit that has four offices in Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island. 
 Mr. Friedman worries that the city and state will reduce support for the organization's legal services, after-school programs and adult-literacy classes for 5,000 low-income New Yorkers. 
 Although some nonprofits may fail, others may survive if ''we see more strategic alliances between smaller agencies and larger nonprofits that can help them with administration and fund-raising,'' Ms. Wackstein said. 
 And in the long run, ''nonprofits are very resourceful groups,'' Ms. Slutsky said. ''And New York is a city of very generous people.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A fund-raiser at Green-Wood Cemetery, where the cast of ''Angels and Accordions'' performed, was hurt by the Wall Street crisis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Rachel Topiol, left, and Regina Mandragona of Citymeals-on-Wheels, and Chesley Carter with a delivery for Herbert Bronstein.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEITH BEDFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MEALS ON WHEELS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CHARITIES (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); MALNUTRITION (52%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



262 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Ease Credit, I.R.S. Eases Loan Regulations

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
The Internal Revenue Service has taken steps to help ease the credit crisis by allowing corporations to ramp up their use of tax-free loans from overseas subsidiaries.
 The program, quietly announced by the I.R.S. late Friday, was devised at the behest of the Treasury Department, which oversees the agency. 
 It is intended to help ease the credit crisis by luring back into the United States economy a chunk of the estimated hundreds of billions of dollars kept overseas by American corporations through their subsidiaries in low-tax countries. That money could help combat a core problem of the credit crisis: the reluctance by banks to give companies the short-term loans needed for daily business. 
 In an unusually explicit step into the world of financial policy, the I.R.S. made clear that the credit crisis was behind the action.
 ''Recently, circumstances affecting liquidity have made it difficult for taxpayers to fund their operations,'' the agency said in a notice made public on Monday. The I.R.S. said it was undertaking the program ''to facilitate liquidity in the near term.''
 Robert Willens, a leading tax and accounting analyst, said Monday that the program could result in ''a tremendous amount of money to shore up corporations.'' He added that ''this is a substitute for commercial paper, and right now companies are having major difficulties rolling over commercial paper'' -- issuing short-term debt to finance their operations. 
 Overseas subsidiaries of big American companies, typically Fortune 500 companies, ''may now be the lenders of last resort, with credit this tight,'' Mr. Willens said. ''They will now become a major source of funding, the ones to keep operations going day-to-day in this crisis.'' 
 United States corporations that take loans from their subsidiaries typically pay a tax of 35 percent on the loans, making them akin to taxable distributions. The tax, which also applies to profits repatriated from foreign subsidiaries, is the main reason that many American companies have sent vast sums of money overseas in recent years.
 Under an old I.R.S. program, American corporations could receive tax-free loans from foreign subsidiaries but had to repay them within 30 days. The short period meant, among other things, that the parent corporation had to be sure it could repay the money to its subsidiary in time to qualify for the tax break.
 A Treasury spokesman said the agency had no data on how extensively the 30-day loan program was used.
 Under the new program, parent companies now have 60 days to repay the loans. It also introduces a limit on the amount of time a corporation can spend in such transactions: 180 days each year. Corporations can take as many 60-day loans as they like from their foreign controlled subsidiaries over nearly half a year, a Treasury spokesman said. 
 But there is a hitch: the new program covers loans made only during the 2008 and 2009 tax years. It does not place any restrictions on how the tax-free loans may be used, however. 
 The program differs from a one-time tax holiday created in 2004 that allowed American corporations to bring back to the United States profits held in overseas subsidiaries at a greatly reduced tax rate. 
 More than 840 of the largest corporations repatriated $362 billion in profits, claiming tax deductions worth $265 billion from 2003 through 2006. The profits, part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, were intended by Congress to increase job creation and investment, but some companies used the money to bankroll marketing and legal expenses. A few companies used the money to buy back shares or pay dividends, moves prohibited by the act. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



263 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2303 words

HEADLINE: Emerging Markets Find They Aren't Insulated From the Tumult

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong. Vinod Sreeharsha contributed reporting from Buenos Aires.

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
Emerging markets took one of their biggest collective tumbles in a decade Monday as stock markets from Mexico to Indonesia to Russia were gripped by fears of a collapse of Europe's banking system and concern that a global recession could drag down the price of commodities, forcing a steep slowdown in emerging-market growth.
 Many of the world's fastest-growing economies thought they had insulated themselves from problems in the developed world. But economists said that simultaneous turmoil in Europe and the United States was too much to bear. ''The potential of a global recession is awakening emerging markets that they will be hit stronger than we thought before,'' said Alfredo Coutino, a senior economist at Moody's, the credit rating agency. 
 At the beginning of the global trading day, Asian markets were hit by fears that weakening economies in the United States and Europe would increase the chances of a downturn in Asian exports. The Standard & Poor's/Australian Stock Exchange 200 index in Sydney declined 3.3 percent, the Nikkei 225 index dropped 4 percent in Tokyo, and the Hang Seng in Hong Kong fell 5 percent. 
 But Indonesian markets fell 10 percent -- as did some of the largest European markets later. Unlike many emerging markets, Indonesia has been running a trade deficit, which means that it needs a constant flow of foreign capital. But capital has been seeking safe havens, and the emerging markets with large current-account deficits are being penalized.
 That includes India, and many of the Baltic states, as well as Turkey and Kazakhstan.
 Nicholas Bibby, an economist in the Singapore office of Barclays Capital, said that falling share prices across the region showed that many investors were still worried that banking difficulties might spread even after Congress passed a $700 billion economic bailout plan in Washington.
 ''It's a fear of contagion,'' Mr. Bibby said, while adding that Asian banks were better positioned than most to withstand the current problems because the region's high savings rates tends to mean that Asian banks are net lenders in international money markets.
 Similarly, many economists expect that the regulatory reforms Latin America took to shore up its banking sector in the wake of previous crises will make them more resistant to failure than their American or European banks. But that relative health is inspiring little faith in the markets.
 Brazil's stock market, the Ibovespa, closed down 5.4 percent, after trading was suspended twice, at one point when the market plunged 15 percent. Argentina's Bolsa de Buenos Aires fell 6 percent. Even Chile, the region's most stable economy, had one of its largest one-day drops in years. The country's IPSA exchange dropped 6.02 percent; its IGPA exchange fell 4.89 percent.
 For Latin America, nightmarish memories of previous financial crises are still fresh. Mexico struggled at the end of 1994 and was saved from default only by a $50 billion bailout by the United States in concert with international organizations. After the Southeast Asian crisis, Brazil watched its currency, the real, tumble 43 percent in early 1999 after the government abandoned its policy of defending it. 
 This time, the region was thought to be more resilient. This decade, Brazil, Mexico and Chile, in particular, have saved wisely during a broad-based commodity boom. They have reformed their financial institutions with stronger regulations and, in the case of Brazil especially, diversified their trade to be less reliant on the United States economy and more on Asia's.
 ''Latin America is in a much better macroeconomic position now,'' Mr. Coutino said. ''But in the past few weeks the movie has changed, and now Europe is involved. Two of the three main global locomotives for growth are now suffering. If we face a global recession nobody can escape.''
 To varying degrees, Latin American countries have said they will tap reserves and stabilization funds to try to ensure that the higher cost of borrowing does not affect exporters. The governments of Brazil and Chile have said in recent days that they will free funds for key industries this year.
 Other countries -- such as Venezuela, Ecuador and Argentina -- which saved less, will not have as much flexibility. In Argentina, the global credit tightening could make it more difficult for the country to renegotiate billions of dollars in outstanding debt and stave off a fiscal crisis next year, Mr. Coutino said. But because it has been shunned by international investors, capital flight is less of a concern. 
 ''Capital is not leaving Argentina because it never entered Argentina,'' said Dante Sica, an economist at Abeceb, an economic consulting firm in Buenos Aires. 
 Russia: A 19% Drop
 Russia led the global sell-off Monday, its stock market falling 19.1 percent, its worst day since the end of the Soviet Union and the return of capitalism. Russia's RTS index dropped about a tenth of a percent farther than during the previous worst day -- Oct. 28, 1997, during the emerging-market financial crisis of the late 1990s. 
 Three halts in trading through the day failed to slow the drop. The other main stock exchange, the Micex, was down 18.6 percent. And some big companies fared even worse. 
 Gazprom, Russia's largest company, fell 24.4 percent, and Norilsk Nickel, a blue-chip mining enterprise, lost 37.7 percent. Brokers once giddy about the rapid rise of the oil-fueled market said they expect worse to come. 
 ''Nobody has to own the market,'' Kingsmill Bond, the chief strategist at Troika Dialog brokerage, said of Russia stocks. And nobody, apparently, wants to, as investors closed positions to move to treasury securities. 
 The problem is, even against a backdrop of global uncertainty, the Russian stock market looks especially vulnerable. 
 Falling commodity prices is one reason: as the threat of global recession looms, oil and other resources that fueled Russia's boom are retreating. The Russian market was also weakened by investors divesting in the wake of the war in Georgia, which raised the specter of a return to cold war hostilities with the West. As stocks fell, other investors were forced to sell on margin calls, in a spiral that revealed the Russian stock market was more leveraged than most analysts had believed. A Kremlin bailout plan, meanwhile, has not had much effect. 
 On Monday alone, the stock market drop represented a paper loss of $102 billion for Russian companies. 
 Gazprom executives once boasted, Khrushchev-like, that their company would bury its biggest competitor, Exxon Mobil, on the strength of their seemingly limitless reserves of natural gas in the Siberian wilderness. But Gazprom has fallen 66 percent since its peak in May; the company's market capitalization was $123 billion Monday. 
 Exxon Mobil, which is also vulnerable to oil price declines, has fallen less, 21.1 percent since its May peak. 
 In another example of Russia's woes, the price of Norilsk Nickel collapsed Monday after a big shareholder, the metals tycoon Oleg V. Deripaska, the nation's richest man, was forced to hand over his shares in the Canadian auto parts maker Magna in a margin call by creditors. 
 That raised the question of whether his recently purchased Norilsk shares could also soon be seized by the consortium of Western banks that financed the deal. A spokesman for Mr. Deripaska's conglomerate, Basic Element, said the company faced no liquidity crisis. Norilsk shares are down 78.2 percent from their peak this year. 
 Such losses in Russia's mighty mining, oil and gas companies have now raised the specter of defaults by the wealthy but secretive coterie of Russian businessmen known as the oligarchs. Peering into their finances has always been a guessing game. 
 The Russian stock market is now about where it was on Aug. 17, when authorities halted trading for two days and announced a more than $150 billion stimulus package of loans to banks and tax cuts, which the market has largely shrugged off. On Monday, Vladimir V. Putin, the prime minister, said he would set up a committee to study new responses to the crisis. A deputy minister of economy said Russia plans additional, unspecified stimulus measures. 
 ANDREW E. KRAMER
 Iceland: Seeking Capital
 Iceland's banks were celebrated not long ago for transforming an island of fishing villages into an economic dynamo by lending money to the world. But now the global credit squeeze is threatening to swamp those overleveraged banks, and the country with it.
 The position of Iceland's banks had deteriorated greatly over the last 24 hours, Prime Minister Geir H. Haarde said in a television address from Reykjavik on Monday. So much so that the country passed legislation Monday allowing the government to take wide-ranging powers over its banks.
 Mr. Haarde said all bank deposits would be guaranteed by the country -- following Ireland, France, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and others. 
 The prime minister had already asked the country's pension funds and its two biggest banks, Kaupthing Bank and Landsbanki Islands, to sell some foreign assets and repatriate the proceeds so the country would get an infusion of capital. With the new legislation, the government is now able to decide whether to merge pension funds and banks or declare some bankrupt. 
 The steps were also desperately needed to stop the tailspin of the country's currency, which only destabilized the economy further. The Icelandic krona fell 43 percent against the euro this year mainly because investors feared the government will be forced to step in and support the banks -- something it could not afford to do on its own. 
 Assets held by the country's main banks are nine times the size of the entire economy.
 Iceland's problems are deeply rooted in the history of its financial services industry, which grew out of proportion to the country's 319,355 population ever since the sector was privatized and deregulated about eight years ago. The banks tapped capital markets to finance their rapid expansion into Britain and as far as China and set off an investment boom that created a whole league of new billionaires. 
 But it also left the country with a large current-account deficit and its economy and financial market vulnerable to a credit markets squeeze. Iceland had its first warning in April when the krona fell 26 percent in four months as traders started to doubt the ability of the government to sustain the stability of its inflated banking sector. 
 The fear was that Iceland's banks could default on their foreign loans. A month later, the central banks of Sweden, Denmark and Norway came to its rescue and offered an emergency loan. Back then, it helped to reinstate some trust in the country's financial system and economy but other Europeans have their own problems this time. 
 JULIA WERDIGIER
 Mexico: Watching the U.S. 
 Two weeks ago, President Felipe Calderon of Mexico, during a visit to the New York Times offices in Manhattan, noted that in previous decades when the United States would catch a cold Latin America would catch pneumonia. Nowadays, he said that day, when America catches pneumonia, Latin America catches only a cold.
 That might have been wishful thinking. With some 85 percent of Mexican exports going to the United States, and half of its foreign investment flowing from there, Mexico is likely to be the Latin American country most affected by the financial woes on Wall Street when all is said and done. Remittances, the second-biggest source of foreign exchange for Mexico, are flat and falling, said Leonardo Martinez-Diaz, a Mexico expert and political fellow at the Brookings Institute. And Mexico's peso fell 6.4 percent in September, its worst month since August of 1998.
 Mexico's banking sector could present a bigger challenge. Some 82 percent of Mexican banking assets are foreign-owned, of which about one-third are in American hands, about one-third owned by Spanish banks and the rest owned by other European banks, Mr. Martinez-Diaz said.
 ''The crisis could be transmitted to Mexico through those banking connections,'' he said. ''If there is a crisis in the Spanish market they may retrench and stop lending to Mexico for some time.''
 As companies postpone big investments until at least next year, regular Mexicans will most likely tighten their belts, stay home more and perhaps put off large expenditures. ''The whole economy will go into a wait-and-see mode, to see which way the U.S. economy goes,'' he said.
 ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO
 Brazil: Markets Down 45%
 With Monday's drop, Brazil's stock markets has plunged 45 percent this year. But the country continues to grow at more than 5 percent a year. 
 It has done more than any country in Latin America to set aside money during the commodity boom. The last two governments have accumulated more than $200 billion in foreign reserves and billions more in stabilization funds. Brazil has diversified its economy and lowered its exposure to the United States, which accounts for only 15 percent of Brazil's exports now, down from about 50 percent at the beginning of the decade.
 But while household spending has driven much of the recent growth in the economy, Brazil remains highly sensitive to commodity prices. On Monday, government officials sought to play down the effect of the market's fall and broad concerns about emerging markets. 
 One silver lining in the sell-off may be the effect the crisis is having on the Brazilian real, which lost 17 percent of its value in September, its worst performance since September of 2002. While that will sap buying power for consumers, it provides welcome relief for industrialists in the country that were warning that Brazil's exports were becoming too expensive.
 ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BRAZIL PLUNGES: Brokers at BM&F watched as Brazil's Ibovespa index fell Monday. Trading was suspended twice, at one point when the market plunged 15 percent. Brazil's market has fallen 45 percent this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEBASTIAO MOREIRA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
RUSSIA LEADS: Russia led the global sell-off Monday, its stock market falling 19.1 percent, its worst day since the end of the Soviet Union and the return of capitalism. Gazprom, Russia's largest company, fell 24.4 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY KOSTYUKOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 SHANGHAI SLUMP: A worker watched the performance of the Shanghai composite index on Monday at a brokerage in Shanghai. Trading in Asia was hurt by fears the American and European troubles would continue to spread east.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALY SONG/REUTERS)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BAILOUTS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); MARKET SIZE (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (65%)

COMPANY: ASX LTD (55%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%)

TICKER: ASX (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) BRAZIL (94%); EUROPE (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); HONG KONG (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); CHILE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



264 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: A Fool's Paradise

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
With less than a month left until Election Day, there is still time for the presidential candidates to focus with great intensity on what should be the most important issue of this campaign. It's not just the economy, stupid -- it's jobs.
 The stock markets were rocked again on Monday, and the need to stabilize the financial system is obvious. But the U.S. economy is never going to be really healthy until the country figures out how to provide work at decent pay for all, or nearly all, of the men and women who want to work. 
 We've been living for years in a fool's paradise atop a mountain of debt. The masters of the universe on Wall Street lost all sense of reason, no doubt. But most of us have been living above our means through the magic of easy credit, ever lower taxes, ever rising property values, stock market bubbles and the gift of denial, which we used to assure ourselves that the bills would never come due. We've even put our wars on a credit card. 
 The burden of debt for a typical middle-income family, earning about $45,000 a year, grew by a third in just the few years from 2001 to 2004, according to the Center for American Progress. The reason for this unsustainable added weight was the rising cost of such items as housing, higher education, health care and transportation at a time when wages grew only slightly or not at all.
 In other words, work was not enough.
 As for the debt burden of the federal government, don't ask. (But you might want to ask your grandchildren how they plan to pay for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.)
 With reality now caving in on us -- banks and brokerage houses falling like tenpins, a trillion dollars or so in bailout money being added to the nation's debt burden, families by the hundreds of thousands being driven from their homes by foreclosures -- it might make sense to get back to basics. And in the United States, the basic economic component of a sustainable family life is a good job.
 What we haven't paid close enough attention to for many years (a period in which we've been oddly obsessed with the financial lives of the rich and famous) is the fact that there haven't been enough good paying jobs to sustain what most working Americans view as an adequate standard of living. This is a fundamental flaw in the U.S. economic system.
 With the latest financial meltdown, there has been widespread outrage over the excessive compensation of top corporate executives. Where has everybody been? The rich have been running the table for the better part of the past 30 or 40 years.
 Example: The after-tax income of the top 1 percent of Americans rose 228 percent from the late 1970s through 2005. The story for working families over that same stretch was one of constant struggle to just stay even. As the Pew Charitable Trusts reported last year: ''The earnings of men in their 30s have remained surprisingly flat over the past four decades.''
 Disaster was held at bay by the entrance of wives and mothers into the workplace, and by the embrace of colossal amounts of debt for everything from home mortgages, cars, clothing and vacations to food, college tuition and medical expenses.
 Now middle-class and working families are up against the wall. With most other options exhausted, the only real way for the vast majority of Americans to continue financing a reasonable quality of life is through the proceeds from employment.
 Unfortunately, we're retreating on that front. Nearly 160,000 jobs were lost in September. More than three-quarters of a million have vanished over the past nine months. 
 The economy won't be saved by bailing out Wall Street and waiting for that day that never comes when the benefits trickle down to ordinary Americans. It won't be saved until we get serious about putting vast numbers of Americans back to work in jobs that are reasonably secure and pay a sustaining wage. 
 And that won't begin to happen until we roll up our sleeves and begin the immensely hard and expensive work of rebuilding a nation that unconscionably was allowed to slip into a precipitous state of decline. We'll end up spending trillions for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and another trillion, at least, to clean up after the madmen on Wall Street.
 Now we need to find the money and the will to put Americans to work rebuilding the nation's deteriorating infrastructure, revitalizing its public school system, creating a new dawn of energy self-sufficiency and rethinking our approach to an economy that remains tilted wildly in favor of the rich.
 That's what the presidential campaign should be about. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); CHILDREN (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



265 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Marketing Campaigns Aim to Soothe Clients When Banks Are Failing

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
 It was a daunting task for any ad agency copywriter. In the last 10 days of the life of Washington Mutual -- Sept. 15 to Sept. 25 -- terrified customers withdrew $17 billion in deposits from the failing savings and loan, which federal regulators then took over and sold to JPMorgan Chase for $1.9 billion. 
 How, then, to create a campaign that would project confidence in an institution that will be remembered as having suffered the largest bank failure of its time? Humor, decided the two banks' agencies, which worked together on ads to promote the fire sale -- er, merger.
 ''We love Chase,'' reads the headline of an ad for Washington Mutual. ''And not just because they have a trillion dollars.'' (The Washington Mutual name will remain on those branches for the time being, a Chase spokesman said, but will be replaced by the Chase name in a year or two.) 
 The same challenge is playing out in the marketing department of virtually every financial institution. As the stock market swoons, investors are watching their paper losses mount and their retirement accounts dwindle. As the most trusted names in banking and brokerage have fallen like dominoes -- despite reassurances from top executives that nothing was wrong -- what message or slogan could possibly reassure a jittery public?
 ''This is not the time for keeping to the course,'' said Gary M. Stibel, chief executive at the New England Consulting Group in Westport, Conn., which is starting a practice devoted to financial crisis management. ''The ads should tell people with money: 'There is every reason to worry. That's why we're here.' ''
 For Washington Mutual, the important message was the happy new marriage to JPMorgan Chase, which provided a handsome dowry. ''WaMu & Chase. Safe & secure,'' said one ad. 
 The ads were necessary, said a spokesman for JPMorgan Chase in Chicago, Thomas A. Kelly, to help stanch the flood of deposits from WaMu -- and they worked.
 ''There was radio, print, Internet, fliers in banks, all part of saying, 'You're O.K.,' '' Mr. Kelly said last week, adding: ''And we really think we got that message across. On Tuesday and Wednesday, we had positive deposit inflows into WaMu.''
 The WaMu agency -- TBWA/Chiat/Day in Playa del Rey, Calif., part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group -- and the JPMorgan Chase agency -- McGarryBowen in New York -- are collaborating on the campaign. Appropriately, the tagline is: ''WaMu, now part of Chase.''
 Commercial banks are only one place where consumers have been voting with their dollars, moving their money to what they perceive as safer investments. Among the beneficiaries have been money market funds that invest in government securities.
 ''The government funds have been growing by leaps and bounds,'' said Connie Bugbee, managing editor at iMoneyNet in Westborough, Mass., a research firm. That has come at the expense of what are called prime money funds, she added, which invest in areas outside of government.
 Similarly, Hewitt Associates in Lincolnshire, Ill., which tracks the movement of money in 401(k) accounts, reported that on Sept. 29, the day the Dow Jones average plunged 777.68 points, so-called stable value funds -- another historically safer option -- received the largest inflows of transfers; international funds suffered the largest outflows.
 In advertising, many financial institutions are racing to reassure consumers with soothing messages -- that focus on important ''S'' words: strength, safety, stability, security. 
 ''There is a safe and smart place to put your money,'' ads for Commerce Bank tell newspaper readers.
 Simultaneously, some institutions are continuing to communicate as if the recent upheavals had not happened. Ads for Discover Financial Services, for instance, try to coax consumers to sign up for yet another credit card, offering enticements like free balance transfers.
 Just as bad as no new message, said Mr. Stibel of the New England Consulting Group, is the wrong message, as when ''the C.E.O. writes a letter that 'everything's O.K., not to worry, we're in great shape.' ''
 ''That's an indication everything isn't O.K.,'' he added. 
 Mr. Stibel praised ads for Charles Schwab, the discount brokerage firm. They have included open letters from Charles R. Schwab, the chairman, outlining in plain language his perspective on market conditions. 
 ''The current environment for investors is in many ways unprecedented and clearly unsettling,'' the text of the letter begins on the Web site schwab.com.
 ''Is it a tough environment? Yes,'' the letter continues. ''Is it a time to be rash? No.''
 The straight talk is the right approach, said Andrew Benett, chief executive of Euro RSCG Worldwide in New York, a unit of Havas that is the Schwab creative agency, because ''everyone knows how dire the situation is.'' ''What brands need to do to be successful is to be honest, to have a lot of humility,'' he added. ''The consumer has very little tolerance of anything else.''
 The campaign featuring Mr. Schwab is running in addition to Schwab's regular ads.
 ''As we've seen anxiety on the part of investors increase,'' said Rebecca Saeger, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at the Charles Schwab Corporation in San Francisco, ''we've reached out to our own clients, reminding them we're here for guidance and are taking a leadership voice to help individual investors.''
 ''It's hard to be reassuring when nobody knows how it will all pan out,'' she added, ''but the feedback has been very positive.''
 Ms. Saeger demurred at describing customer behavior since the ads began, citing rules against discussing material matters before Schwab reports its third-quarter results. However, ''we've seen a tremendous increase in calls to call centers, visits to branches, visits to the Web site,'' she added, and ''a ton of interest in more conservative investment options.''
 In the same vein, Bank of America decided to alter its advertising, said a spokesman in Boston, Joseph L. Goode, to ''promote our various savings options like our risk-free C.D.'s and high-yield C.D.'s.''
 Ads for Bank of America by BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of Omnicom, carry headlines like ''A new opportunity to bank with confidence, security and a higher interest rate.''
 Asked about results, Mr. Goode replied, ''Like a lot of large banks, we've seen a flight to quality, an increase on the deposit side of our house.''
 So far, Bank of America has not run ads about its acquisition of Merrill Lynch. 
 Of course, it is not easy for companies to shift marketing gears so quickly. ''The situation is so fluid, it's hard to figure out what message to put out today that would be relevant tomorrow morning,'' said Matthew Harrington, United States chief executive at the Edelman public relations agency in New York, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc.
 In many instances, ''I just don't think they've been hitting the right note,'' Mr. Harrington said of the financial marketers, referring to those ''that say, 'Believe in us' without providing data explaining why'' or ''that say, 'We have all the answers,' which I'm not sure is credible given all the wreckage.''
 ''It's more comforting for consumers to be treated candidly: 'We're in uncharted waters. We're doing our best. We want to hear your questions. We're here to help you,' '' he added. ''You gain a lot of credibility.''
 Even the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which has found itself in an uncomfortable spotlight lately, is trying to project the right image. Last month Suze Orman, the personal finance writer and television personality, began appearing in a public service campaign for the agency, which regulates banks and insures deposits. The campaign, by the Washington office of Porter Novelli, an Omnicom agency, includes a Web site (myfdicinsurance.gov) where consumers can calculate the protection on their accounts.
 ''We wanted to strike the proper tone between being informative and being alarmist,'' said Andrew Gray, public affairs director at the F.D.I.C. ''We certainly didn't want to scare anyone.''
 That approach makes sense to Rob Scalea, president and chief executive at Brouillard in New York, an agency owned by the WPP Group.
 ''People are responding in an acute way'' to events, Mr. Scalea said, comparing it to the reaction after 9/11.
 ''There are companies that consumers are looking to,'' he added. ''It's appropriate for them to stand up and be leaders.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Suze Orman, the personal finance writer and television personality, began appearing in a public service campaign for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which regulates banks.
 Washington Mutual advertising reflects a recent takeover by JPMorgan Chase, which provided a handsome dowry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); MERGERS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SECURITIES BROKERS (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (90%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (61%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); OMC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%); NORTHEAST USA (54%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



266 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; A CONVERSATION WITH JOSEPH DERISI; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: 'From now on, I don't think there is going to be any new viral epidemic that we will not be able to identify within a few days.'

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA DREIFUS

 BODY:
Joseph DeRisi's mantelpiece is heavy with awards and prizes. At age 39, Dr. DeRisi, a molecular biologist and biochemist, is a Howard Hughes Medical Investigator; a McArthur ''Genius'' Fellow; a professor at the University of California, San Francisco; and a winner of this year's prestigious Heinz Award for Technology, the Economy and Employment. Among his achievements is helping to invent the ViroChip, which greatly accelerates the ability of researchers to diagnose viral infections. An edited version of a two-hour conversation follows.
 Q. HOW DID THE IDEA FOR THE VIROCHIP FIRST COME TO YOU?
 A. My colleague Dave Wang and I were sitting around the office one day in 2000 asking, ''How were viruses discovered in the past?'' 
 We knew that it had always been a laborious and time-consuming effort. When an epidemic struck, what researchers generally did was go to electron microscopes and try to figure out what they were seeing. Sometimes, it took 10, 20 years to find a virus they knew had to be in there.
 Earlier, when I was a Stanford graduate student, I'd worked on developing DNA microarrays, which are often called DNA chips. They allow a researcher to do many biological tests at once. The chips are now widely used in gene discovery, cancer detection, drug discovery and toxicology. So Dave and I reasoned that these DNA microarrays would be perfect for viral discovery. I said, ''We can build a similar device representing every virus ever discovered, and it could simultaneously look for them.'' 
 Q. AND YOU DID BUILD IT. WHAT DOES YOUR VIROCHIP LOOK LIKE?
 A. It's a glass slide onto which we've printed little DNA fragments of every virus ever discovered -- about 22,000 different viral sequences. I designed the robot that made the chip. I then built that robot and wrote all the software to automate it. I've always been a serious computer nerd, as well as a biologist. Now is really the right moment for a scientist with that combination of interests. The way the chip works is this: If we are looking at a virus and trying to figure out what it is, we take some DNA and some RNA from a patient and we tag it with a fluorescent dye. Then we put that material onto the virus chip. Because matching genetic sequences stick to each other -- the double helix -- if there's a match between what's on the chip and our biological sample, a particular spot on the chip will glow. That tells us which virus the sample is. And, thanks to computers, we can do this with thousands of viruses at one time.
 Q. CAN YOUR CHIP FIND UNDISCOVERED 
 viruses? 
 A. It can. The ability to do it relies on evolution. It turns out that viruses evolve from each other, like everything else. So if you look at the evolutionary tree of viruses, you can find parts of their genome that haven't changed over evolutionary time. You can recognize what may be a new virus by identifying this little piece of their genome that hasn't changed and is represented on the chip. 
 Q. IS THAT WHAT YOU DID IN 2003 WITH SARS?
 A. Yeah. We had just finished building the full version of our ViroChip, when we read about SARS in the newspapers. We literarily begged the C.D.C. to send us samples of the virus. Once we had it, we immediately put it onto a chip. In less than 24 hours we confirmed that this was a novel coronavirus. We confirmed the ViroChip's finding by subsequently sequencing this virus's genome. This had never in history happened before. It was unthinkable five years earlier. 
 From now on, I don't think there is going to be any new viral epidemic that we will not be able to identify within a few days. It doesn't mean you'll find a cure right away. But you will be able to separate people who have it from those who don't. You can stop it from spreading, if you have a diagnostic. That's what got SARS under control.
 Q. I UNDERSTAND THAT YOUR CHIP HAS BEEN HELPFUL IN DIAGNOSING SOME AVIAN VIRUSES. IS THAT TRUE? 
 A. After SARS, we got calls from veterinarians in Israel and Florida who told us that parrots, macaws and cockatiels were dying from this wasting disease, which they suspected was viral. Once we got tissue samples, the ViroChip quickly picked up that this was a bornavirus, something seen in livestock, but that hadn't been identified in birds before. 
 As with SARS, once we had a diagnostic tool, you could separate the sick birds from the healthy ones. You might not be able to save an infected bird, but you can certainly stop the epidemic from going any further. 
 Q. ARE YOU USING THE SAME TECHNOLOGY TO STUDY MALARIA?
 A. Yes, we use DNA microarrays that are similar to the virus chips. Malaria is a one-cell parasite; it's not a virus. We built a chip that represents that organism's genome -- 6,000 genes. And we grew large amounts of the parasite in vats of human blood. We were then able to use the chip to understand what genetic program these parasites run at the moment they infect human blood cells. This is important because all the clinical symptoms of malaria occur when the parasite infects a person's blood cells. This knowledge will assist drug and vaccine development. 
 Before we did this, it was anyone's guess which of the 6,000 genes were important. Now this data has gone to every malaria lab in the world, and they are picking specific genes to work on, many times based on our data. That's just amazing!
 Q. HAVE YOU PATENTED YOUR VIROCHIP?
 A. My colleagues and I considered it. But in the end, we saw no value in doing that. We want people to use this technology. By disseminating the technology freely, more researchers can utilize it faster. And that can produce more rapid advances in human health. We put the specifications into the public domain. 
 Q. YOU'VE JUST WON THE HEINZ AWARD. WHAT DO YOU PLAN TO DO WITH THE $250,000 PRIZE MONEY?
 A. I intend to use a percentage for special research projects on infectious disease, and I'll give a percentage to field operations working against malaria. After that, I'll pay my two young daughters' day care bills and also set up college funds for them. 
 I did my undergraduate work at the University of California when it was still affordable. But tuition keeps on rising. We'd better start saving now.
 Joseph DeRisi's mantelpiece is heavy with awards and prizes. At age 39, Dr. DeRisi, a molecular biologist and biochemist, is a Howard Hughes Medical Investigator; a McArthur ''Genius'' Fellow; a professor at the University of California, San Francisco; and a winner of this year's prestigious Heinz Award for Technology, the Economy and Employment. Among his achievements is helping to invent the ViroChip, which greatly accelerates the ability of researchers to diagnose viral infections. An edited version of a two-hour conversation follows. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VIRUS DETECTOR: Dr. DeRisi in '03, when the viral chip helped identify SARS.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC RISBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EPIDEMICS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); DNA (90%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (90%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOCHEMISTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (90%); TOXICOLOGY (78%); BIOINFORMATICS (78%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (69%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (65%); SYNTHETIC DYES & PIGMENTS (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



267 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: In Tough Times, M.B.A. Applications May Be an Economic Indicator

BYLINE: By PETER EDMONSTON

 BODY:
HERE'S a pop quiz for the M.B.A. crowd: With the sharp downturn on Wall Street, applications to the nation's business schools are likely to a) fall, b) hold steady or c) rally like a tech stock in 1999?
It's not an academic question. Deadlines for first-round applications at many business schools are rapidly approaching. Some admissions officers are already reporting larger-than-normal crowds at events for potential applicants, which could mean that many people are thinking about leaving the Street to take shelter in the quad. 
''It's a very predictable and reliable pattern,'' said Stacey Kole, deputy dean for the full-time M.B.A. program at the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business. ''When there's a go-go economy, fewer people decide to go back to school. When things go south, the opportunity cost of leaving work is lower.''
During each of the four officially declared recessions since 1980, the number of people taking the Graduate Management Admission Test -- a requirement for most business school applications -- peaked or was about to peak. Through Sept. 30 of this year, registrations for the test were running about 11.6 percent higher than in the comparable period of 2007, according to the Graduate Management Admission Council, which administers the test.
In Chicago, Ms. Kole said her school was seeing ''great turnouts'' at events for potential applicants. An on-campus session in late September -- the day after the collapse of Washington Mutual, the largest bank failure in United States history -- filled every one of the 120 available slots.
At New York University's Stern School of Business, Anika Davis Pratt, assistant dean of M.B.A. admissions, said attendance was up sharply at recent events. But she said it was unclear how much the economy was driving the trend. Applications to Stern's M.B.A. program were up 20 percent last year, when the financial crisis was only beginning to unfold, she said.
Not everyone agrees that a Wall Street bust is followed by a boom in business school applicants.
The director of M.B.A. admissions at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, Derrick Bolton, said he had seen little correlation. Even after some of Wall Street's most wrenching periods, such as the market crash of 1987, the application numbers at his school were ''pretty standard,'' he said. Demographics, as opposed to the swings of the stock market, are a much bigger factor, he said.
The habits of M.B.A.'s have inspired economic theories over the years.
One tongue-in-cheek gauge, called the Harvard M.B.A. Indicator, takes into account the kinds of jobs taken by the latest graduating class at Harvard Business School. If more than 30 percent of graduates end up in ''market-sensitive jobs,'' which include investment banking, private equity and hedge funds, it's a long-term sell signal for stocks, said Ray Soifer of Soifer Consulting, a former banking analyst (and Harvard Business School alumnus) who created the index and has tracked it for several years.
That indicator reached a record 40 percent for the class of 2007 -- its strongest signal yet to sell. But Mr. Soifer is quick to add that the index -- driven by the idea that when Wall Street is ballooning, the market is probably peaking -- is mostly for fun. As a market bellwether, he said, it ''may or may not be better than the Super Bowl.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MOVING OUT: The exodus as Lehman Brothers fizzled could be a sign that it's a good time to take a break from the work force.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM STARKWEATHER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



268 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Global Fears Of a Recession Grow Stronger

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When the White House brought out its $700 billion rescue plan two weeks ago, its sheer size was meant to soothe the global financial system, restoring trust and confidence. Three days after the plan was approved, it looks like a pebble tossed into a churning sea.
 The crisis that began as a made-in-America subprime lending problem and radiated across the world is now circling back home, where it pummeled stock and credit markets on Monday.
 While the Bush administration's bailout package offers help to foreign banks, it seems to have done little to reassure investors, particularly in Europe, where banks are failing and countries are racing to stave off panicky withdrawals after first playing down the depth of the crisis.
 Far from being the cure for the world's ills, economists said, the rescue plan might end up being a stopgap for the United States alone. With Europe showing few signs of developing a coordinated response to the crisis, there is very little on the horizon to calm rattled investors. 
 The vertiginous drop in stock markets on both sides of the Atlantic on Monday reflected not only those fears, experts said, but also a growing belief that the crisis could tip the world into a global recession.
 Indeed, the ripple effects from Europe and the United States were amplified as they spread to stock markets in Russia, Brazil, Indonesia and the Middle East. 
 These countries had little to do with the subprime crisis but were vulnerable to a sudden halt in the flow of money. They lack even the veneer of national or regional cooperation that protects Europe and the United States. Stock markets in emerging economies recorded their worst one-day decline in 21 years on Monday, with trading in Russia and Brazil halted to stem an investor panic.
 ''It looks pretty ugly down the road,'' said Simon Johnson, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund who specializes in financial crises. ''Everybody is going to get caught up in this.''
 The global nature of the crisis and its growing collateral damage ought to galvanize countries to work together to fashion a concerted response, Mr. Johnson said. There is a chance to do that this week, with dozens of finance ministers and central bankers converging on Washington for the annual meetings of the I.M.F. and the World Bank.
 The trouble is, these institutions no longer have the resources or authority to lead such an effort. The I.M.F., which played a central role in the Asian crisis, has been relegated to the sidelines this time -- its credibility tarnished by that episode and its skills ill-suited to a crisis in advanced economies. These days, it mainly issues lonely warnings about the impact on developing countries.
 The Group of 7, which once functioned as a sort of command center for the global economy, is similarly depleted, according to critics. It no longer represents the world's economic drivers, they said, and badly needs to be expanded to include rising powers like China and India.
 ''The globalization of the crisis means we need a globalization of responses,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, the director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''But most of the responses will be national. For all the institutions we have, we don't have the right institutions to do this.''
 That is particularly true in Europe, which has an effective central bank but lacks a unified legislature or treasury to coordinate or finance a rescue of the banking system. So far, economists say, Europe's response to the crisis in its banks has been mostly marked by denial and dissension. 
 From London to Berlin, governments are clinging to a piecemeal approach. The British and the Germans have resisted a broader solution, because they fear they will end up rescuing their neighbors.
 A weekend meeting of European leaders in Paris, called by President Nicolas Sarkozy, ended with a pledge that Europe would not countenance a bank failure like that of Lehman Brothers, but little else.
 Part of the problem, experts said, is the nature of this crisis: bailouts of banks are costly and unpopular with taxpayers -- even more so, as in Europe, where burden sharing is a perennial sore point.
 ''Taxpayers won't agree to bail out the banking system of other countries,'' said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''Not even in Europe, where you have a neutral framework, could you get people to cooperate on a joint effort.''
 As the problems in Europe have worsened, the crisis has taken on an ''every country for itself'' quality. When Ireland placed a guarantee on all bank deposits and debt last week, it angered neighbors, who feared capital would flee their banks to the safer haven of Dublin. Now, Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Austria have all pledged to guarantee deposits.
 ''If you do this one by one, it destabilizes people's deposits in other countries,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''It's mind-boggling that the Europeans have coordinated so little up until this point.''
 With Europe and the United States deep in crisis, economists said, the rest of the world could not help but suffer. Robert B. Zoellick, the president of the World Bank, warned that the crisis could be a ''tipping point'' for the developing world. 
 ''A drop in exports, as well as capital inflow, will trigger a falloff in investments,'' Mr. Zoellick said in a speech on Monday. ''Deceleration of growth and deteriorating financial conditions, combined with monetary tightening, will trigger business failures and possibly banking emergencies.''
 The immediate danger, economists say, are countries in Eastern and Central Europe, like Bulgaria and Estonia, which run steep trade deficits and are vulnerable to a sudden flight of foreign capital.
 Iceland, with an overheated economy and suffocating foreign debt, may prove to be the first national casualty of the crisis. On Monday, threatened by a wholesale financial collapse, the government in Reykjavik assumed sweeping powers to intervene in its banking industry.
 ''We were faced with the real possibility that the national economy would be sucked into the global banking swell and end in national bankruptcy,'' Prime Minister Geir H. Haarde said on Monday.
 But with global growth slowing sharply, the problems could spread to larger emerging markets, even China, which has a hefty current account surplus and immense foreign reserves. 
 ''Where is China going to sell its exports?'' Mr. Johnson of M.I.T. said. ''Everyone is going into recession at the same time.''
 This week, the focus will be on the Group of 7, whose finance ministers and central bankers are scheduled to meet on Friday at the Treasury Department. The group issued a perfunctory statement of support for the United States, after the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., briefed members about the rescue plan in a conference call two weeks ago.
 But European finance ministers, notably Peer Steinbruck of Germany, noted that the crisis began in the United States, and played down the need for a systemic European response.
 Mr. Zoellick, in his speech, said flatly that the Group of 7 ''is not working.'' He advocates expanding the group -- which includes the United States, Canada, Britain, Italy, France, Germany and Japan -- to include emerging economies like Brazil, China, India and Saudi Arabia.
 The urgency of the moment, experts said, demands a bolder response from the Group of 7. Mr. Bergsten said the group should commit to a coordinated stimulus plan to stave off a recession.
 ''Just as the U.S. rescue plan may not be enough,'' he said, ''a U.S. stimulus plan by itself will not be enough.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''A drop in exports, as well as capital inflow, will trigger a falloff in investments,'' said Robert Zoeller, head of the World Bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KLEPONIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); BRAZIL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); INDONESIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



269 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: California: Six Bodies Found In Los Angeles Home

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
An unemployed man with a finance degree who was despondent over his own financial problems shot and killed his wife, their three children, his mother-in-law and himself in their home in a gated community in Los Angeles, the police said. Officers found the bodies after the wife failed to show up at a neighbor's home to go to work, Deputy Chief Michel Moore said. The deaths occurred sometime after Saturday evening. The man left a will and two suicide notes, one for the police and one for friends and relatives. The family members' names were not immediately released. The children were sons ages 19, 12 and 7. The man had a master's of business administration in finance and had worked for PricewaterhouseCoopers and Sony Pictures, but he had been unemployed for several months, Chief Moore said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (88%); SUICIDE (73%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



270 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Oil Drops Below $90 as Economy Slows

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Oil prices fell below $90 a barrel on Monday for the first time since February because of the economic slowdown, even though production in the Gulf of Mexico had not fully recovered from hurricane destruction three weeks ago.
 The price decline of recent weeks, from a record high for crude oil of $147.27 a barrel during the trading day on July 11, has been breathtaking for energy analysts and traders, some of whom had predicted during the summer that the price would cross the $200 threshold by 2010 or sooner.
 Now, amid weakening global demand, prognosticators are talking about prices going down to $70 or even lower. 
 ''The buying frenzy that engulfed the oil market in the beginning of the year is about to go into reverse,'' declared Phil Flynn, an analyst at Alaron Trading, in a note to investors on Monday, ''and the myths that oil bulls tried to feed us are coming apart at the seams.'' 
 Economic worries are overshadowing any relief consumers might feel at the gasoline pump, where the average national price for a gallon of regular unleaded dropped 2 cents from Sunday, to $3.50, according to AAA, the automobile club. That is still a high price by historical standards, but it is down 15 cents from a month ago, and well below the record peak of $4.11 a gallon on July 17. 
 Gasoline prices are bound to go lower, experts say, as oil prices fall. West Texas intermediate crude for November delivery fell 6 percent to close at $87.81 in New York trading on Monday.
 What makes the sudden drop in oil and gasoline prices all the more surprising is that it comes at a time when oil company executives are realizing that damage to oil platforms and underwater pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico from Hurricane Ike is more serious than originally thought. 
 The federal Minerals Management Service reported on Monday that 46.2 percent of oil production and 40.6 percent of natural gas production were still shut down. Most platforms were shut down for safety reasons before Hurricane Gustav entered the gulf in late August and then remained shut as the more powerful Ike struck last month.
 Fifty-two of 3,800 production platforms were destroyed, and 73 additional platforms had moderate to considerable damage. 
 Eight pipeline systems that transport oil and gas output onshore and five onshore natural gas processing plants suffered damage, and several more oil pipeline systems are still undergoing damage assessments. Nearly all of the 15 gulf refineries that were shut down by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike are operating normally again, although a few are still struggling to repair damage from flooding.
 The gulf accounts for about 25 percent of the nation's domestic oil production and 15 percent of natural gas output. Government and industry officials say as much as a quarter of the gulf's oil production could still be out in a month.
 ''If this had happened during a brisk economy, it might have been haunting, but we are far from a brisk economy,'' said Tom Kloza, senior oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service. ''As long as demand remains flat,'' he added, normal gulf output at this time of year ''is not needed.'' 
 The disruption caused shortages at gasoline stations around the Southeast for several weeks, and gasoline prices in Atlanta remain about a half-dollar higher than the national average. But shortages have eased, as gasoline flowing through the Colonial pipeline connecting the gulf to the Southeast is returning to normal levels.
 The reason that prices are going down despite falling gulf production is the steady drop in gasoline demand. A recent report by the Energy Department showed that consumption in July was the lowest in 11 years for the month, traditionally one of the heaviest for driving. Demand is also declining rapidly in Europe and other industrial regions because of high fuel prices and the global economic slowdown.
 ''The financial contagion that is spreading to Europe is raising concerns about a slowdown in oil demand on the Continent that could perhaps eclipse what has already happened in the U.S.,'' wrote Addison Armstrong, an energy analyst at Tradition Energy, on Monday. ''Oil traders are on watch of any signs that Chinese demand could follow suit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hurricane Ike damaged some pumps on the High Island Oil Field in Texas last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY GUTIERREZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (79%); GASOLINE (79%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



271 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo to Sue Radio Ratings Company, Claiming Minorities Are Underrepresented

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
As area radio stations received their first audience ratings generated through new measuring devices on Monday, the New York attorney general's office warned broadcasters and advertisers not to rely on the numbers. 
 The office of the attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, said it planned to file a lawsuit this week against Arbitron, the company that compiles the data, because of concerns that minority listeners were not being adequately represented. 
 Mr. Cuomo's office said it believed that the new ratings system, which relies on hand-held devices called portable people meters, did not adequately account for young African-Americans and Hispanics, people who do not speak English, and cellphone-only households.
 Recruiting and retaining enough respondents from these demographic groups has proved difficult for Arbitron, leading some stations that cater to urban and ethnic audiences to claim that they are not being sufficiently counted.
 Arbitron says that they are, and that the company will continue to improve in this area.
 During testing periods for the people meters over the last year, the ratings for some minority broadcasters dropped noticeably, prompting concerns about the validity of the devices. Mr. Cuomo's office began an investigation last month and intended to file a lawsuit against Arbitron by midweek.
 For decades, Arbitron measured radio audiences by distributing diaries to listeners and relying on a representative sample of what stations they tuned in to each month. Arbitron has argued that the diary method was subject to errors of memory. 
 The people meters, in contrast, are carried by members of the ratings panel and automatically record radio signals. With people meters, the total audience for radio grows, because participants tend to listen to more radio than they remember in a given month, but the average audience for each station shrinks, because people switch stations more than they realize.
 A coalition of minority radio broadcasters has claimed that the lower ratings recorded by the portable people meters would ''disenfranchise minority communities and have a devastating impact on small businesses.'' 
 The urban contemporary station WBLS, for example, was ranked No. 4 in diary-based ratings in the spring, but dropped to No. 11 in September's people meter ratings. The Spanish-language station WCAA was ranked No. 5 in the spring, and No. 20 in September.
 Arbitron denies the disenfranchisement charge, saying that some minority stations have received strong ratings through people meters. They say ''The Steve Harvey Show'' on WBLS tied for first place in September with the news station WINS among listeners ages 25 to 54.
 Mr. Cuomo informed Arbitron last week of his intent to sue. On Monday, Arbitron released the people meter ratings for September, two days ahead of schedule, and requested a restraining order to prevent Mr. Cuomo from halting the publication of the ratings. The motion was denied.
 Arbitron would not comment about the timing of the release of the ratings, which affected stations in New York City, Long Island and three New Jersey counties, as well as stations in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago and smaller markets. 
 In a statement on Monday, Alex Detrick, a spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, cautioned stations and their advertisers against ''using these prematurely released ratings as we believe they are flawed and will be the subject of ongoing litigation.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); RANKINGS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (84%)

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



272 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Dealbook; THE DEAL PROFESSOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Tough Times for Sellers' Lawyers As Buyers Play Hardball on Deals

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF

 BODY:
Looking to sell your company? Good luck. Stock prices are down and volatility is high, making it difficult to settle on a price. Only the safest of borrowers can get credit to pay for a deal, and private equity buyers are stuck on the sidelines.
But sellers aren't suffering alone: Their lawyers, forced to contend with buyers that impose tough conditions, are facing hard times as well. 
Here's how bad it is: Sellers in the financial industry have been resorting to ''reverse auctions,'' in which they compete with each other over a buyer. A prominent example came when Lehman Brothers lost out on landing one of only two buyers in the market, as Bank of America chose to acquire Merrill Lynch instead.
Economic uncertainty makes buyers nervous. The problem is particularly acute in the financial industry, where, these days, the value of a target's assets and liabilities is simply unknown.
That's why buyers are adopting a number of legal tactics to ensure that they have maximum flexibility to abandon their acquisition deals if things take a turn for the worse. Buyers are also taking legal steps to keep sellers from escaping their grasp.
Here are some provisions that buyers' lawyers are leveraging into acquisition agreements:
LETTERS OF INTENT When Morgan Stanley announced its alliance with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial in September, the headline was that Mitsubishi would invest up to $8.4 billion in Morgan and take a stake of 10 to 20 percent. But it was not a done deal -- the parties had only signed a nonbinding letter of intent. This would have allowed Mitsubishi to walk away before an agreement was signed or renegotiate if circumstances changed.
Mitsubishi and Morgan announced a definitive agreement last week, but others have not been so lucky. Bear Stearns faced this problem when Citic Securities of China walked away from its letter of intent to invest $1 billion in Bear.
DUE DILIGENCE CONDITIONS These allow a buyer to conduct an examination of a target after signing an acquisition agreement. If the buyer discovers a material deterioration of the seller's business, it can walk away. Normally, sellers resist this type of provision. But in this market, where the unknown rules, it is starting to creep into agreements. An example comes from MidAmerican Energy Holdings' recent agreement to purchase Constellation Energy for $4.7 billion. The process to obtain regulatory approvals for this transaction could take up to a year, and MidAmerican has a right to walk away during that time if it discovers a deterioration in Constellation's business of greater than $400 million.
REVERSE TERMINATION FEES These fees give a buyer the right to back out at any time, by simply paying a fee -- typically about 3 percent of the deal value. Historically, these provisions appeared only in private equity transactions, and the provisions were heavily criticized in the past year as buyers repeatedly exercised this right and abandoned deals. At the time, some speculated that these provisions might be discarded because they effectively reduced an agreement to an option to buy.
However, in today's market, buyers do not want any credit risk. Not only is the reverse termination fee standard in the few private equity deals being reached, it is becoming standard in strategic transactions financed with credit.
FORCE THE VOTE This requires a target company to hold a shareholder vote on the transaction, even if a third-party bid emerges. These are not uncommon in normal times, but they may emerge as the standard in distressed sale agreements. Bank of America negotiated this provision in its agreement to acquire Merrill in order to inhibit third-party bids. Bank of America also negotiated a provision that Merrill's board could change its recommendation on the transaction only if a superior bid occurred. This provision is a very unusual constriction of the board's fiduciary duties -- and possibly invalid under the law as unduly restrictive on the board's decision-making.
HIGHER BREAK FEES A break fee is paid by a target company to terminate a deal in order to accept a higher bid from a third party. Typically, break fees are about 3 percent of the deal value, but they are creeping higher. In the Merrill deal, the break fee could rise to 4 percent of the deal value, or $2 billion.
ASSET PURCHASES Why buy the cow if you can have the milk? Buyers are adopting this strategy: instead of purchasing an entire company, they are acquiring just the assets and leaving the liabilities with the old company. For example, JPMorgan Chase chose to purchase Washington Mutual's assets and selected liabilities, but not the company itself. This allowed JPMorgan to avoid taking on liabilities it would prefer not to assume (think mortgage-backed securities).
Toxic Convert Rights These features are beginning to appear in higher-profile private investments in public equity, known as PIPE deals. Toxic convert rights typically involve an automatic resetting of the per-share price to be paid if there is a decline in the target company's stock after the purchase. Because of the huge potential for diluting the stakes of other shareholders, these types of investments are accepted only by the most desperate sellers. In this environment, though, buyers are forcing through these provisions in unexpected circumstances.
TPG's ill-fated investment in Washington Mutual is one example. Much earlier in the year, when things looked a bit more stable for WaMu, TPG negotiated a right that allowed it to reset its investment value to any lower per-share price at which WaMu issued new equity. This protected TPG, at the expense of WaMu, inhibiting it from raising additional capital until TPG waived the right -- a waiver that came too late to save the company from being seized by federal regulators. This is a lesson for all deal lawyers: When negotiating the current financing arrangement, think ahead to the next one.
FORCE THE TRANSACTION This is the ultimate exercise of buyer leverage. Recent deals involving Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and American International Group each included heavy-handed tactics that pushed through a deal over possible shareholder objections. Each was structured to avoid a ''no'' vote by shareholders to ensure that it was a fait accompli. The bailout of A.I.G., for example, was structured so that the government received preferred shares -- thereby avoiding a shareholder vote and the possibility that A.I.G. might arrange an alternative transaction. Normally, this would be illegal under the governing Delaware corporate law, but because of the extreme nature of A.I.G.'s situation and the government's involvement, it will likely pass muster.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STRATEGIES: Robert Steel, chief executive of Wachovia, and Jane Sherburne, its general counsel, confer outside court, as David Boies, right, a lawyer for the bank, approaches. Citigroup and Wells Fargo are wrangling over Wachovia's fate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); LAWYERS (76%); APPROVALS (67%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%); MTU (NYSE) (54%); 8306 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



273 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Forecast for Business Jets Eases Off on Exuberance

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
author tag with dummy text.

 BODY:
THE annual trade show and convention of the National Business Aviation Association is always a swell affair, with a huge crowd, a vast expanse of convention displays and row after row of shiny new corporate jets lined up at a nearby airport. 
 This week is no exception at the convention in Orlando, Fla., where more than 27,000 people from the business aviation industry and its corporate customers celebrate another record year. Any clouds on the horizon still seem far away. 
 This is an industry buoyed by strong orders from previous years. In 2008, for the fifth consecutive year, deliveries of business jets will set a record -- nearly 1,200 new aircraft, an increase of about 15 percent over last year, according to Honeywell Aerospace. Honeywell released its annual industry forecast at the convention, which continues through Wednesday.
 But with the stock market plummeting, this may be the last year of unbridled exuberance for a while. Prospects for the business jet industry have been bolstered by rising demand outside the United States, and as much as 55 percent of new orders over the next five years are expected to come from overseas, Honeywell says.
 Deliveries next year are expected to exceed this year's. But, Honeywell said, deliveries will probably peak either in 2009 or 2010. Long-term industry prospects nevertheless remain strong, with $300 billion in sales forecast over the next 10 years, Honeywell said.
 Forecast International, another prominent industry analyst, issued its own outlook in late September that predicted another record year in 2009, followed by a three-year decline that would reflect worsening economic conditions.
 In discussions with corporate flight departments in the United States, Honeywell analysts are already picking up signs of a decline in business jet use.
 ''Flying hours are slowing in general, mostly concentrated in smaller jets,'' said TK Kallenbach, marketing vice president at Honeywell Aerospace. 
 Departures of private jets, as measured by the Federal Aviation Administration, are also declining, Mr. Kallenbach said. The sharpest declines have been in the use of the least expensive jets.
 ''To date in 2008, 78 percent of the reduction in flight hours has been concentrated in light jets and very light jets,'' he said. ''When fuel prices started to go up, they affected the light-jet guys the most, guys who are flying on a more discretionary basis,'' he said. 
 Another developing trend is a large inventory of used jets for sale. Again, it is primarily in the low end of the market -- light-cabin jets that sell new for $2.5 million to about $6 million.
 ''You see a lot of light jets and very light jets hitting that used-aircraft market,'' Mr. Kallenbach said, ''whereas it's extremely difficult to buy a used Global right now; it's hard to find a used G550.'' He was referring to Bombardier's line of big Global 5000 and Global Express jets, which sell for about $45 million, and Gulfstream Aerospace's G550s, which cost about $59 million.
 There is, of course, a private jet market that's even richer. That is the market in wide-bodied airliners converted to corporate or private use by extremely wealthy people. That market seems to be doing just fine.
 At Lufthansa Technik, which installs custom cabins on big airliners for private use, demand for conversions of wide-body airliners at the ''uppermost levels of the business-jet market'' has ''risen dramatically,'' the company, a subsidiary of the German airline, said in Orlando.
 Lufthansa Technik has contracts to provide V.I.P. interiors for two Airbus A380 superjumbo planes (list price, around $330 million without interior fixtures), and two A340s (list price, $225 million) by 2011. In Orlando, the company announced that it had new letters of intent to outfit interiors of three Boeing 747-800s (which cost about $260 million) and three Boeing 787s (not yet in service, but expected to cost around $170 million).
 The company also said it was negotiating with six other customers for 787 private cabins and five others who want to have 747-800s outfitted at its factory in Hamburg, Germany, where Lufthansa has already done interiors for 15 Boeing 747s that are currently flying the world in private hands.
 E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); NEW ORDERS (75%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%)

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (93%); HONEYWELL AEROSPACE (56%)

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (93%); HON (LSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (93%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS811219 OTHER ELECTRONIC & PRECISION EQUIPMENT REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (56%); NAICS488119 OTHER AIRPORT OPERATIONS (56%); SIC7629 ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (56%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



274 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Financial Crisis Takes a Toll On Already-Squeezed Cities

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
After the layoff of 160 full-time and part-time city workers, the slashing of recreation programs and a call for volunteers to shelve books at the branch libraries (open two days a week now instead of six), the people of Duluth, Minn., thought they had seen the worst of a bad year for the municipal budget.
 To help close a gap of more than $6 million that yawned open over the summer, the artsy shipping city on Lake Superior had considered selling its prized Tiffany stained-glass window depicting Longfellow's American Indian character Minnehaha, a one-of-a-kind work donated by a civic group more than 100 years ago. And some even pushed forward with plans to sell valuable beachfront property along the lake. The city had options, things were looking up.
 But then Wall Street struck. With tax receipts from retail sales and property values plummeting as unemployment rises along with fuel costs, city officials in Duluth and across the country say they are feeling increasingly squeezed and helpless as the national economic crisis eats away at the core sources of municipal revenue. 
 Add to that the abrupt and unexpected loss over the last several weeks of usually sound investments and credit in the municipal bond markets -- the place to which local governments turn for relatively cheap, fast money -- and it becomes clear that cities are facing their own financial crisis, arguably the worst in decades.
 In Duluth, for instance, a $3 million investment the city made last summer through Merrill Lynch, which was sold to Bank of America last month, was liquidated and came back last week $2.25 million short -- a devastating setback for a city.
 ''We are getting close,'' said Don Ness, the mayor of Duluth, population 88,000, with 800 full-time city workers. ''But it seems there is new bad news every week that puts us further behind. We have no cushion available to us. And we now lack the finance tools that could have assisted us getting through our current financial crisis.''
 While some of the nation's largest cities have had perennial budget trouble and others have a history of suffering since the demise of major manufacturing, some of the cities that are facing economic hardship this time around were used to balancing their budgets without too much trouble. 
 And the largest are struggling even more than usual: Los Angeles and Chicago are each facing shortfalls in the $400 million range. In New York, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg last month ordered $1.5 billion in cuts over two fiscal years, and the financial situation is worsening by the day as Wall Street continues to struggle.
 ''If they do their cuts and lay back on services and are still in the red and have to issue a bond or a note, the climate is not the best,'' said Steve McLaughlin, a director of Municipal Market Advisers, an independent advisory firm. ''If they need money quickly through a bond issuance, it's going to be hard to get. There are a whole host of new challenges.''
 Cities as varied as Duluth, Phoenix and Atchison, Kan., have had to cut back and, in some cases, make drastic reductions that affect the quality of life for their residents. 
 All over the country, parks are being sold, fees for routine services are going up and city workers are being laid off. 
 Even prosperous Tempe, Ariz., is facing a loss of 75 to 100 city positions -- 5 percent to 8 percent of its municipal work force -- to help close a budget gap.
 ''We are very well-positioned, but that is a relative statement,'' said Mayor Hugh Hallman of Tempe. ''We are obviously in the same boat that the whole U.S. and, frankly, global economy is in. A city like Tempe is hard-pressed to control everything about its own destiny.'' 
 In a survey of more than 300 municipalities released last month, the National League of Cities reported that four out of five finance officers said their cities would be less able to meet needs in 2009 than this year. The group called the findings troubling, with no sign of getting better.
 ''This is the first time for at least two decades that all three major general tax sources -- property, income and sales -- have all declined at the same time,'' said Michael A. Pagano, a co-author of the report and dean of the College of Urban Planning and Public Affairs at the University of Illinois, Chicago. ''That's the real frightening thing for cities.'' 
 ''It's not like the 2000 or 1991 recessions; those hit the coasts first and flowed to the middle,'' Dr. Pagano continued. ''This one doesn't differentiate between high-tech and low-tech cities, manufacturing towns or new exurbs.''
 ''We're watching housing prices decline still,'' Dr. Pagano added. ''The property tax receipts on that property today won't be collected for at least 18 months. That puts us in fiscal 2010. So, for at least the next two fiscal years, we're going to be feeling the lingering effects of the real estate decline.''
 Cities typically begin to look for cost savings in areas like the arts and recreation, then move, when pressed, to services like police and fire protection, or trash pickups. Many cities have already arrived at the latter stage. 
 ''We try to cut programs and services that impact the public the least,'' said Toni Maccarone, a spokeswoman for the City of Phoenix. ''Unfortunately, this time around, there's going to be direct service cuts. That's what makes it so hard. It's police and fire, and parks and senior services, libraries.'' 
 Some cities, like Duluth, are constantly juggling ideas to stay afloat, even if they do not come to fruition. The city decided this week, for instance, that it will not part with its Minnehaha window despite the financial crisis. But the plan to sell the beachfront property is going forward, and, Mayor Ness said, it could bring in as much as $2 million -- a big step toward a balanced budget. 
 Atchison, a city in northeast Kansas with a population of just over 10,000, had begun what it considered a risky pattern of spending down its reserves to make ends meet. This year, however, to stem the bleeding it is consolidating several departments, enacting a 23 percent property tax increase, and asking employees to pick up a larger part of their health care costs.
 It will also be losing one of its 22 police officers and its only construction management position. Atchison relies on sales taxes for more than a quarter of its almost $6 million general fund budget. 
 ''When you already have a really trim work force, then any cuts hurt even more,'' said Justin Der, the city manager. 
 Phoenix, with its population of 1.5 million, has a much larger budget than Atchison but it, too, is largely reliant on sales taxes. In the last fiscal year, the city adopted a budget that included $89 million in cuts. 
 ''Unfortunately, the economy hasn't improved; it's gotten worse so all departments are currently working on another 30 percent cut,'' Ms. Maccarone said. ''When people aren't shopping -- buying new cars and refrigerators and other big-ticket items -- we're not getting the revenue.''
 ''We are trying to be as creative as we can,'' she said. ''It's been challenging. We're just started our new fiscal year, and our forecast is just terrible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOENIX: Officials say the city will have to cut services like public safety, aid to the elderly and libraries.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CITY OF PHOENIX)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL HARTMAN)
 DULUTH, MINN.: After considering the sale of its 1893 Tiffany stained-glass window depicting Minnehaha, officials decided instead to sell some property along Lake Superior, hoping to bring in $2 million or more.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE JOHNSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); BONDS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); LIBRARIES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); NATIVE AMERICANS (70%); BEACHES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); BOND MARKETS (65%); RETAIL SALES (53%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DULUTH, MN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (95%); LAKE SUPERIOR (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



275 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: For Bloomberg, a Brush With Royalty and a Round Table on Finance

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Sewell Chan contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
King, meet prince. Michael R. Bloomberg, who was accused of acting like an imperious king last week after he decided to try for a third term as New York mayor, took a break from his busy schedule on Monday to meet with Prince Harry, the third in line to the British throne.
 The meeting was private. But aides to Mr. Bloomberg said he met Prince Harry at Clarence House, the official residence of Prince Charles, Harry's father, for about 30 minutes. The two talked about Sentebale, a charity that the younger prince helped establish to benefit children in the tiny nation of Lesotho in southern Africa. 
 It was not Mr. Bloomberg's only brush with royalty. During a question-and-answer session with reporters at Haberdashers' Hall, the mayor stood before a portrait of King George III, the monarch whose 59-year reign is closely tied to New York's history.
 As for Prince Harry, Mr. Bloomberg was going to mention their meeting during a speech on Monday night and joke about how the two actually had a lot in common as ''style icons'' who ''like to go out and have a good time,'' according to a prepared text. But when he delivered the speech, he did not mention Prince Harry.
 The meeting represented a moment of ceremony and protocol during a day filled with unceremonious news and, well, chaos, thanks to a global financial crisis that dominated talk in London and Europe.
 In the afternoon, Mr. Bloomberg led an economic round-table discussion with his counterpart, Mayor Boris Johnson, and about two dozen other titans of finance and government. And he offered, just as he has done repeatedly in City Hall, a glass-is-half-full view of the crisis, telling reporters that he had a ''perspective of optimism'' because there had been ''up markets and down markets.''
 He added, ''The danger is that we overreact.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, looking quite comfortable in a city where he owns a home, in the fashionable Cadogan Square neighborhood, then received the Freedom of the City of London -- the equivalent of getting the key to the city in New York. The award is a framed certificate approximately the size of a tie box. Mr. Bloomberg said his mother would be proud of him.
 But a few hours later (with his meeting with Prince Harry sandwiched in between), the mood had changed perceptibly at Haberdashers' Hall, given the tumbling prices of stocks around the world.
 ''I'm sure we've been watching everything on a Bloomberg screen,'' said Stuart Fraser, the policy chairman of the City of London, the capital's financial district. He was referring, of course, to the Bloomberg terminals, filled with up-to-the-minute financial information, that helped to make the mayor a billionaire an estimated 20 times over.
 During his speech, Mr. Bloomberg said, in one of many ad-libbed moments: ''It's really scary what's going on out there.''
 At another point, he expressed, for the first time, his disagreement with the federal government's decision not to intervene and save Lehman Brothers.
 ''It would have been a lot cheaper for society to do the same thing at Lehman Brothers,'' he said, referring to the government's $700 billion bailout. ''Wipe out the stockholders, fire the management, but keep the organizations going. That would have been a more intelligent thing to do.''
 He continued: ''I do think that we live in a world where the consequences of big companies' going out of business should give us all pause to think before we say: 'Hey, it's economic Darwinism. If they weren't smart enough, the heck with them.' You can't do that in the real world, and you shouldn't do that in the real world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg before a portrait of King George III at a news conference at Haberdashers' Hall in London on Monday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSIA PIERDOMENICO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); CREDIT CRISIS (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); PRINCE HARRY (90%); PRINCE CHARLES (58%); BORIS JOHNSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LESOTHO (79%); AFRICA (77%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



276 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: 4 Weeks to Go, and It's Getting Heated

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama and '60s Bomber: A Look Into Crossed Paths'' (front page, Oct. 4): 
 The 1950s McCarthy-era ''guilt by association'' is rife in this campaign season. Anyone a candidate knows or has talked to can be used to credit or discredit him. This is a dangerous return to a time when reputations and careers were ruined because of suspicions about the political persuasion of one's friends or associates. 
 Most anyone in the nonprofit field in Chicago knows and admires Bill Ayers for his knowledge and commitment to quality education. A respected professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago, he is beloved by his students. Most of us met him long after his time as a radical Weatherman in the late 60s. Certainly, we don't condone his behavior at that time. 
 Barack Obama was 8 years old when Bill Ayers was violently protesting the Vietnam War. That they now live in the same neighborhood and share deep concerns about education has nothing to do with Bill Ayers's past, and shame on the McCain campaign for suggesting that it does and going back to the horrendous tactics that were so repulsive in the 50s. 
 Judy Wise
 Chicago, Oct. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 You quote John McCain, ''How can you countenance someone who was engaged in bombings that could have or did kill innocent people?'' He was referring to Barack Obama's acquaintance with the former Weatherman Bill Ayers, but the same question might be put to his own supporters. 
 A Vietnamese friend once described to me the scene of carnage he witnessed as a child after a United States bombing in Hanoi. He and his family fled through a landscape strewn with the body parts of innocents.
 An argument could be made that the pilot who flew 23 bombing sorties over Vietnam and the former radical were both doing what they believed right -- one in support of a war and the other in protest of it -- and that both were wrong. 
 Kevin Lathrop
 Brooklyn, Oct. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Palin, on Offensive, Attacks Obama's Ties to '60s Radical'' (news article, Oct. 5): According to Gov. Sarah Palin, Senator Barack Obama is un-American for ''palling around with'' Bill Ayers, who was involved with the Weathermen 40 years ago. If we buy into her guilt by association, a lot of us Chicagoans are suspect. The faculty, students and administration of the University of Illinois, which hired Mr. Ayers as a professor, must all be terrorists.
 Likewise, all the employees, board members, donors and recipients of grants from the Woods Fund, where Mr. Obama and Mr. Ayers served together, ought to be investigated. 
 Mr. Obama's patriotism was questioned last year because he didn't wear a flag lapel pin. I've since noticed that no one I know wears one. Obviously, I'm surrounded by terrorists. 
 David Brown
 Chicago, Oct. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Wright Stuff'' (column, Oct. 6): As the United States and world economic crisis continues to erode consumer confidence and 401(k) accounts, William Kristol urges Sarah Palin to up her personal attacks on Senator Barack Obama regarding his past association with the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. These misguided tactics mirror the current administration's strength in knowing how to get elected, but lack of policy depth and ability to govern once the election is over. 
 Please, there has never been a more urgent time to raise the bar beyond personal attacks, something Joe Sixpacks, elitists and neocons need at this crucial time. Bill MacConnel
 Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As a registered independent in a swing state, I read William Kristol's column with interest. I was surprised to learn that Sarah Palin is eager to escape her handlers and speak directly to the people as often as possible. Yet I'm still confused as to why she hasn't held a press conference as the vice-presidential nominee. 
 When the president of Iran has held more press conferences on American soil than has a candidate for the vice presidency, I worry that something is irrevocably broken with our political system. Robert Goldberg
 Newbury, N.H., Oct. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Sarah's Pompom Palaver'' (column, Oct. 5):
 Thank you, Maureen Dowd. At last someone has tackled the question of whether it is elitist to wish our presidential teams could speak decent English. I want to look up to a president, or an aspiring one, not to identify with them. 
 The awful irony of this campaign is that Barack Obama worked his way from a humble beginning to the top of his class at one of the nation's finest law schools only to be tagged an ''elitist'' for speaking beautifully. Am I really supposed to admire Sarah Palin, who strangles her sentences while asking me to admire Joe Sixpack and hockey moms? 
 These people may be respected in their communities, but when we're talking about the presidency, lead me, please, to national solutions with the gift of words. Joan Ellis
 Atlantic Highlands, N.J., Oct. 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Gail Collins (''Talking in Points,'' column, Oct. 4) helped me understand why Gov. Sarah Palin angers me so much. 
 Those of us who followed the women's liberation movement in the 1970s valued strong, sound arguments and brainpower as proper tools for convincing others of our positions. 
 We never burned our underwear, eschewed makeup or tossed our high heels (if we wore them), but we considered flirty winking and batting eyelashes an admission of weakness. 
 Thank you, Ms. Collins, for helping me figure it out. 
 Bernadine Heller-Greenman 
 Brooklyn, Oct. 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In no way is Gov. Sarah Palin ''a genuine heir to the women's liberation movement of the 1970s,'' as Gail Collins states in her otherwise dead-on column.
 That movement was all about setting aside gender prejudices and judging people on their abilities. Masking a lack of knowledge with vapid talking points and smugly playing the mom card at every turn would never have been considered feminist behavior in the 1970s, and it certainly shouldn't be now. 
 If anything, Ms. Palin is a genuine heir to ''All About Eve.'' (Perhaps Senator John McCain should give that classic movie a look.) Carole Real 
 Los Angeles, Oct. 4, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL SLOAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); TERRORISM (73%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); HANOI, VIETNAM (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (70%); VIETNAM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



277 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: As Council Debates Term Limits, Lauder Remains Unswayed

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO, JONATHAN P. HICKS and FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's top lieutenants, worried that a seemingly iron-clad plan to revise the term limits law could unravel, tried unsuccessfully on Monday to persuade the billionaire Ronald S. Lauder to drop his opposition to permanently allowing elected officials to serve 12 years rather than 8.
 During a tense, hourlong telephone conversation, Michael A. Cardozo, the city's corporation counsel, and Edward Skyler, deputy mayor for operations, advised Mr. Lauder that Mr. Bloomberg's proposal was preferable to the temporary revision Mr. Lauder strongly favors, according to three people briefed on the talks. 
 But Mr. Lauder, who led a 1993 campaign to pass the city's term limits law and has defended it in acerbic television commercials, ''was not persuaded by the corporation counsel's legal analysis,'' said a spokesman for Mr. Lauder, Nelson Warfield. Mr. Lauder has requested a meeting with Mr. Bloomberg when the mayor returns from a trip to Europe, Mr. Warfield said. 
 Mr. Lauder's uneasiness about rewriting the city's term limits law was echoed in an emotional two-hour meeting of the city's Democratic City Council members, who met behind closed doors for their first discussion on the term limits legislation that Mr. Bloomberg is pushing. 
 At the meeting, many council members expressed support for changing term limits, which would force dozens of them from office next year, but said they were deeply uncomfortable doing so themselves because New Yorkers had voted for it twice. 
 Several lashed out at Mr. Bloomberg, saying that the mayor and his wealthy friends had orchestrated a campaign to rewrite the law without consulting with council members, according to those in attendance, who described the meeting on condition on anonymity for fear of offending colleagues. 
 ''This one billionaire is now controlling our government, like a dictator,'' Councilwoman Darlene Mealy, who represents Brooklyn, said during the meeting, colleagues said. Ms. Mealy did not return phone calls after the meeting.
 But several members argued that even if the method of changing the law was unsavory, they remained philosophically opposed to a two-term limit and would act to change it. 
 Lewis A. Fidler, a councilman from Brooklyn, said he told the group that ''this is about whether term limits are good government or bad government. I think it's bad government.''
 According to those in the room, roughly eight members spoke in favor of the legislation revising the law to three terms; eight spoke against it; and four asked questions that did not reveal their position.
 Queens Councilman John C. Liu, who has emerged as a leader in the effort to stop the mayor's plan, gave what many considered the most moving speech. As he recounted after the meeting, he told his colleagues, ''I came into government with a pretty cynical attitude, but over the last six years I came to believe in the system. But in one fell swoop, what has happened here has decimated my belief in that system.''
 Robert Jackson, a Manhattan councilman, offered a rousing defense of the legislation under consideration, saying he has always opposed term limits and would not let public opinion sway him. ''Even if 80 percent of my constituents are in favor of the death penalty, I wouldn't vote for it,'' he said. ''The same is true for term limits. It's a matter of principle.''
 A few members, like David I. Weprin, of Queens, questioned why Mr. Bloomberg did not attempt to change term limits through a public referendum. 
 But Peter F. Vallone Jr., of Queens, said that a referendum would cost millions of dollars to organize, a cost the city should not bear while the economy is faltering. 
 Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn did not reveal her views on the legislation, though she is widely viewed as supporting it.
 It was impossible to determine immediately how many votes the legislation proposed by Mr. Bloomberg could attract on the Council. Democrats hold 48 seats in the 51-member body, and about 30 of them showed up at the meeting.
 During the past few days, Councilman Joel Rivera of the Bronx contacted many of the Democrats and said that ''most of them were in favor of the extension.'' 
 After the meeting, Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr. of Brooklyn, who said he favors the extension, explained: ''A lot of us council members feel that passing it through legislation is giving ample opportunity to the voters of the city to voice their opinions.'' 
 He added: ''If the voters don't like their council member, they can vote him out of office. And if they don't like the mayor, they can get rid of him too.''
 As the Council debated, Mr. Bloomberg's aides scrambled to shore up the support of Mr. Lauder, the term limits advocate and cosmetics heir. 
 After agreeing last week to support a third term for Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Lauder vowed on Sunday night to fight the mayor's plan to permanently change the limits to three terms from two, calling it a ''terrible mistake.''
 Last week, Mr. Lauder privately agreed to support a one-time change of the law to three terms, to allow Mr. Bloomberg to seek re-election in the middle of an economic crisis. But he was angry to learn that the mayor was pushing for a permanent change of the law. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's staff argued that there were two reasons a permanent change was preferable: It was less likely to face legal challenge and would appeal to more City Council members. When Mr. Bloomberg learned of Mr. Lauder's frustration, he and his aides suggested a deal in which Mr. Lauder would sit on a 2010 charter commission committee, which would have the authority to change the law back to a two-term limit. In return, Mr. Lauder would agree to not fight the mayor's plans to alter the law. 
 But Mr. Lauder, after appearing to back such a deal, balked on Sunday night, people familiar with the matter said. His reversal left City Hall staff members confused, as one said, and flustered. 
 They were still holding out hope that Mr. Bloomberg could win Mr. Lauder's support when the mayor returned from a trip to London and Berlin on Wednesday, they said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Three council members, Letitia James, Bill de Blasio and Vincent Ignizio, all oppose the Council changing a term limits law.(PHOTOGRAPH JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITIES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



278 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Opens Term With a Tobacco Fraud Case

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Smokers who say they were defrauded by tobacco companies that marketed ''light'' cigarettes faced a skeptical Supreme Court on Monday in the first argument of the court's new term.
 The justices accepted, some provisionally and others explicitly, that the term ''light'' can be misleading when referring to levels of tar and nicotine. While it is true that brands like Marlboro Lights register lower levels of tar and nicotine when smoked by machines under a standard method authorized by the Federal Trade Commission, many human smokers compensate by puffing harder, smoking more cigarettes or inhaling deeper. 
 Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. challenged a lawyer for the federal government who was at the argument to support the plaintiffs and said the trade commission's position ''seems to me incomprehensible.''
 ''If these figures are meaningless,'' Justice Alito continued, ''then you should have prohibited them a long time ago.'' 
 But the question in the case is not whether it is fraudulent to call cigarettes ''light'' or whether the commission has acted responsibly. It is, instead, whether smokers should be able to sue under state law given that a federal law bans at least some claims concerning smoking and health. 
 The case, Altria Group Inc. v. Good, No. 07-562, is the court's latest exploration of the limits of pre-emption, the legal doctrine that can prohibit lawsuits concerning products that have met federal standards.
 The case was brought by three plaintiffs from Maine as a proposed class action. They sued Altria and its Philip Morris USA unit for fraud under Maine's Unfair Trade Practices Act, saying they had been injured by their reliance on what they called the companies' false statements. 
 The defendants countered by invoking a federal law, the Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, which says ''no requirement or prohibition based on smoking and health shall be imposed under state law with respect to the advertising or promotion'' of cigarettes that follow federal labeling requirements.
 The parties agreed that the provision prohibited lawsuits challenging advertising claims ''based on smoking and health.'' But they disagreed about whether the current fraud suit, which seeks money for economic rather than medical harm, was inextricably intertwined with claims about smoking and health.
 Theodore B. Olson, representing the tobacco companies, said the plaintiffs' fundamental claim -- that they had been misled into buying cigarettes they believed were safer than regular ones -- was inescapably about smoking and health.
 David C. Frederick, representing the plaintiffs, said the federal law did not pre-empt fraud suits brought under general state consumer protection laws. Mr. Frederick drew on a fractured 1992 Supreme Court decision, Cipollone v. Liggett Group, in which a four-justice plurality said Congress had not meant to pre-empt all fraud suits concerning cigarettes.
 Mr. Frederick said there was a difference between state laws ''specially targeted at the cigarette industry'' and ''a generally applicable rule against deception,'' one that would not entangle a jury into ''any special inquiry about smoking and health.'' Only the first sort of law is pre-empted, he said.
 Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. did not seem to be persuaded.
 ''How do you tell whether it's deceptive or not if you don't look at the relationship between smoking and health?'' Chief Justice Roberts asked. ''They have an advertisement that says light cigarettes are better for you than regular cigarettes. You have to know what the relationship is between smoking and health to determine whether that's deceptive.''
 Justices Anthony M. Kennedy and David H. Souter asked Mr. Frederick what sort of harm remained if the suit was entirely divorced from claims about health.
 ''So what are your damages?'' Justice Kennedy asked.
 ''Yes,'' Justice Souter added. ''What's the difference in value?''
 Neither justice seemed satisfied with Mr. Frederick's response that ''economists have projected'' that cigarette buyers would have acted differently had they known the truth.
 Justice Stephen G. Breyer tried to suggest a line between permissible and forbidden lawsuits. 
 ''I can totally understand why Congress would not want 50 states telling cigarette companies what to say about health and smoking,'' Justice Breyer said. ''What I can't understand is why Congress would want to get rid of, in this area, the traditional rule that advertising has to tell the truth.'' 
 The federal government has played a minor role in the case. 
 To the frustration of several justices, the government took no position on the central issue of whether the federal law pre-empted the state claims, in so many words. Rather, the solicitor general's office submitted a vigorous brief supporting the plaintiffs limited to a separate argument -- that the trade commission's actions had not pre-empted the suit by implication. 
 Mr. Olson, the companies' lawyer, had already all but thrown his argument on that point overboard by the time the government's lawyer rose to speak.
 ''I'd like to spend no time on the implied pre-emption argument,'' he said.
 ''Good idea,'' Justice Antonin Scalia responded.
 Asked repeatedly where the government stood on the effect of the federal law itself, Douglas Hallward-Driemeier, an assistant to the solicitor general, would not bite. ''The United States has not taken a position on the bottom line'' of the main issue in the case, Mr. Hallward-Driemeier said.
 On the first day of its term, the court also issued an 82-page list of orders concerning cases that had accumulated over its summer break. It accepted no new cases and turned down several that had gained public attention. 
 The court will not hear cases about ''Choose Life'' license plates, Bible consultation during jury deliberations, whether criminal juries must act unanimously and the constitutionality of the way some patent judges have been appointed. The court took no action in the case of Troy A. Davis, a death row inmate in Georgia who says he is innocent. The court, which has granted a stay in the case, will consider whether to hear Mr. Davis's appeal at its next private conference, on Friday. 
 The list of orders also suggested that Justice Breyer and his wife had sold some of the dozens of stocks they held, allowing the justice to participate in more cases. The development was first reported by Bloomberg News. 
 Kathleen Arberg, the court's public information officer, confirmed the sales. ''Justice Breyer and his wife intend to continue to sell shares'' under a law that permits judges to defer paying capital gains taxes, Ms. Arberg said, ''in order to minimize the number of instances in which financial conflicts require recusal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People lining up Monday outside the Supreme Court, in Washington, to hear arguments on the first day of the court's term.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRODUCT LABELING (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); APPEALS (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); LAWYERS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%)

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON SUPREME COURT (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (92%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



279 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg's Gift To the People: Moi

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
An e-mail pen pal of mine in Alaska (no, not her, someone else) wrote the other day mentioning Marshal Philippe Petain. This was in the context of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's backroom campaign to keep himself in office beyond the limit of two terms that New York voters have quite clearly said are plenty.
 For those unfamiliar with the name, Petain led the wartime Vichy regime in France, which collaborated with Nazi Germany. In no way is this meant to compare Mr. Bloomberg to him. But a Petain quotation from 1940 leapt to mind for my Alaskan pal. As he assumed leadership of the government under Nazi occupation, Petain said loftily, ''I make a gift of myself to France to lessen her misfortune.'' 
 Which is essentially what Mr. Bloomberg is saying to New York as the City Council considers a proposal that might reasonably be called the Incumbency Protection Act of 2008.
 These are obviously tough times. The stock market is cratering. Local tax revenues are sure to plunge more sharply than a major league sinkerball. In this toxic atmosphere, the multibillionaire businessman turned $1-a-year politician has in essence announced loftily to his fellow citizens: ''I make a gift of myself to New York to lessen its misfortune.''
 It is a present that many in the city would happily accept. The mayor remains remarkably popular after nearly seven years in office. At this stage of the game, government leaders tend to be about as well liked as oil company executives (see: Bush, George W.). Mr. Bloomberg defies the normal pattern. Recent polls suggest that most New Yorkers would be glad to have him stay at the helm through a financial crisis that is likely to be with us for a while.
 But there's this pesky thing standing in the way. It is called the expressed will of the people.
 Twice in the 1990s, New York voters approved referendums limiting the mayor and other officeholders to two terms. There is no reason that Mr. Bloomberg could not have gone back to the voters to ask if they'd had a change of heart and would bend the system to give him a third term.
 Instead, with the support of fellow billionaires and an amen chorus of newspaper editorials, he worked behind the scenes to have the City Council change the rules all on its own. It would also mean that three dozen council members scheduled to leave office at the end of next year would get a chance to stick around for an extra term. Ditto for the public advocate, the city comptroller and the five borough presidents. It is quite inclusive, the Incumbency Protection Act of 2008.
 And working in tandem with the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, Mr. Bloomberg seems intent on pushing through this change with a minimum of public discussion. No doubt, he hopes that by the next municipal elections in November 2009, anger over this gambit will have faded and relatively few New Yorkers will resent what some now call a power grab.
 Not all council members are in lockstep with this scheme. Some are sponsoring bills that would require a new plebiscite. It is ''the only way to keep faith with the people,'' Councilman Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn said.
 For him and other public officials who rallied outside City Hall on Sunday, the issue isn't whether or not Mr. Bloomberg has been a fine mayor. It is not even about whether term limits are good or bad, whatever their length. It is about who in a democracy gets to alter the rules on so fundamental a matter. Should it be the voters who approved them in the first place or the politicians who will benefit from the change?
 The debate turns, too, on the desires and whims of a couple of billionaires: Mr. Bloomberg and Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics heir, who has a thing about term limits. Given Wall Street's meltdown, this may not be the best time to argue spiritedly about how the moneyed class is a repository of wisdom.
 As those at the Sunday rally saw it, this unwelcome mess did not have to be. A term-limits referendum could have easily been arranged for next month, with a high voter turnout assured thanks to the presidential election. But Mr. Bloomberg teased New Yorkers about his political intentions for so many months that time ran out on that option.
 O.K., some officials said, why not hold a special election on term limits early next year? It's doable. One argument heard against that idea is that turnouts in special elections are low. True. But are they lower than 51? ''A couple of hundred thousand people voting is better than 51 council members,'' said Betsy Gotbaum, the public advocate.
 Those several hundred thousand won't get the chance if Mr. Bloomberg gets his way. He seems to have a preferred French quotation of his own. His is a variation on a line attributed to Louis XV. In the Bloomberg version, it is, ''Apres moi, moi.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); REFERENDUMS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



280 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Dealbook; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: The Street's Emergency Responders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
ON Sept. 6, Fannie Mae's board of directors convened at the behest of senior government officials, who informed them that, essentially, the mortgage finance giant would be taken over.
As Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary; Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman; and James B. Lockhart, the director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency; all but dictated Fannie Mae's fate, there were only two men in the room who were neither part of the government nor representatives of Fannie Mae.
They were Gary Parr and H. Rodgin Cohen, veterans of a specialized field whose members are in high demand these days: the business of advising financial firms. ''No one alive has been through anything like this,'' said Mr. Parr, a deputy chairman of Lazard, the independent investment bank.
Beginning late last year, these bankers and lawyers have been called in time and again to devise solutions for some of the nation's most troubled financial firms. Nearly a year into the deepest mire of the credit squeeze, Mr. Parr, Mr. Cohen and a circle of other sought-after advisers, including Edward D. Herlihy of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, and Lee Meyerson of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, are increasingly running into each other in boardroom after boardroom. 
Sometimes, members of this club work side by side, as Mr. Parr and Mr. Cohen have done four times this year, for clients like Fannie Mae and Bear Stearns. At that Fannie Mae board meeting, held outside Washington, both men peppered Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke with questions on behalf of the company's board.
''Rodge and I have known each other for decades,'' Mr. Parr said, ''but it's probably fair to say I've not seen him with such frequency as in recent months.''
Other times, they sit across the negotiating table from each other, as Mr. Cohen and Mr. Herlihy did in the sale of Bear Stearns and later when Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group invested $9 billion in Morgan Stanley.
As the Treasury Department has become the biggest player in these deals, some have begun representing the government. One veteran of the financial institutions practice, Kendrick R. Wilson III of Goldman Sachs, has served since July as an adviser at Treasury -- specifically to Mr. Paulson, his former boss at the Wall Street firm.
It is a cast of characters who, even as they may take opposite sides in tough negotiations, are quick to profess a respect for each other, with adjectives like ''brilliant'' often tossed about.
What began for Mr. Parr, Mr. Cohen and others as assignments in a small, specialized area of high finance -- the bond insurance industry -- has broadened in scope and lately operates at a relentless pace.
More so than in previous crises, like the savings and loan collapses of the 1980s, the current whipsawing of financial companies' fortunes has taken an emotional toll on advisers and clients alike. Mr. Parr described one former client as being left stunned and uncomprehending by the speed at which his firm faltered.
This year alone saw the collapse of two venerable investment banks, Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, as well as the government takeovers of Fannie Mae; its equally gigantic cousin, Freddie Mac; and the American International Group, the staggering insurance giant.
Even the once-unfathomable has happened: Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, the two largest and most storied investment banks, transformed themselves into bank holding companies, drawing a curtain on a decades-long era of Wall Street finance.
''To use a football analogy, many of these deals were like the 'two-minute drill,' '' Mr. Herlihy, who has represented JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and the Treasury Department recently, wrote in an e-mail message. ''Everyone involved had to execute under tremendous time pressures to get to the end zone.''
Some rescue efforts succeeded, for example, when Mr. Parr and Mr. Cohen helped orchestrate a government-brokered sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan in two days, and negotiated the sale price up to $10 a share from $2 a share within a week. And some failed, as when Lehman Brothers collapsed in the largest corporate bankruptcy in American history.
Even in Lehman's case, though, advisers helped arrange a quick sale of Lehman's North American capital markets business to Barclays, preserving more than 9,000 jobs.
None of these advisers is new to the game. Mr. Parr's career stretches back to First Boston and includes stints at Wasserstein Perella and Morgan Stanley, where he was the co-leader of its mergers and acquisitions department and its financial institutions group. And the contours of the career of Mr. Cohen, the soft-spoken West Virginian who is chairman of Sullivan & Cromwell, are well known, including his financing work during the Iranian hostage crisis and his involvement in stanching the worst bleeding of the savings and loan crisis.
But both men say the upheavals of recent months strike them as far worse than anything they had experienced. What Bear Stearns proved, Mr. Cohen said, was how quickly the fragile underpinnings of Wall Street could give way -- large, technically solvent financial institutions could be brought down by a liquidity squeeze within a matter of days.
Perhaps the darkest hours of the crisis thus far were in the period between the $85 billion bailout of A.I.G. and the first reports that Washington was crafting a rescue plan. It included a run on some money-market mutual funds, which, if it had continued, could have evaporated the commercial-paper market, threatening the short-term debt through which the majority of companies finance their daily operations.
''We were perilously close to major calamity if that hadn't been addressed very quickly,'' Mr. Parr said.
As crises blurred together, there has been little time for financial services gurus to relax. Twice already, work has pulled Mr. Parr away from the theater halfway through the shows, including a revival of ''Macbeth'' in March, starring Patrick Stewart, and a production of ''Hair'' in Central Park last month.
Two weeks ago, Mr. Parr had to cancel a long-planned trip to the Croatian coast, in his role as chairman of Venetian Heritage, a nonprofit group that raises money to preserve Venice's cultural heritage.
For Mr. Cohen, virtually every day in September was a workday, including the weekends. Long regarded as one of the top counselors to major financial firms, Mr. Cohen has, in the past 30 days alone, advised Fannie Mae; A.I.G.; Lehman Brothers; and JPMorgan Chase & Company in its government-brokered purchase of Washington Mutual.
His social calendar, too, has often fallen victim to the demands of the Wall Street rescue effort. Dinners with his wife in New York City have sometimes been cut short, and his attendance at the wedding of a close friend's daughter lasted only through the cocktail hour.
''Since Labor Day weekend, it's been work every weekend, a lot of long days,'' he said. Speaking on a Friday afternoon, Mr. Cohen said, chuckling, that at 4 p.m., he could not rule out having to work late that night. Perhaps at 6:30 p.m., he could say so with more confidence.
Such is the demand for Mr. Cohen's services that he has sometimes even represented two different sides of potential deals at different times. He advised Lehman Brothers before it filed for bankruptcy, then was hired to represent Barclays. Though the $700 billion Paulson plan, now known as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, has been signed into law, advisers are loath to say the worst of the crisis has passed. Mr. Parr, Mr. Herlihy and Mr. Cohen said they believed the creation of a Troubled Asset Relief Program was necessary, with the crisis having ballooned to a point at which private solutions alone could not have contained the damage.
And the triage on Wall Street will continue, they said.
''Passing the TARP may have been the easy part,'' Mr. Cohen said, referring to the acronym for the bailout plan. ''What is really essential is that the Treasury Department start implementing the program as soon as possible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MEMBER OF THE CLUB: Gary Parr of Lazard, one of a circle of advisers to troubled firms.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); INSURANCE (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (83%); WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (83%); MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (58%)

TICKER: MTU (NYSE) (63%); 8306 (TSE) (63%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (89%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



281 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: A United Image, Battered by Reality

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and CARTER DOUGHERTY; Nelson D. Schwartz reported from Paris and Carter Dougherty from Luxembourg. Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London and Judy Dempsey from Berlin.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
European governments pledged Monday to safeguard bank deposits in a bid to stem financial panic, but they stopped short of a coordinated strategy to break the grip of a credit crisis that now threatens to set off a protracted recession across the Continent, sending markets tumbling on both sides of the Atlantic.
 The lack of orchestration -- despite pledges to the contrary from European Union officials Monday and a plea from the head of the International Monetary Fund to step forward with concrete plans -- raised the prospect that the European Central Bank would need to help mop up the mess by cutting interest rates, a move hinted at by the E.C.B.'s president, Jean-Claude Trichet, last week. 
 ''We've seen both at the national level and more importantly at the international level, that there's no strategy,'' said Richard Portes of the Center for Economic Policy Research in London, adding that ''it reflects the underlying fact that individual governments don't have a clear sense of where to go.'' 
 The crisis that began in the United States has rapidly spun out of control in Europe, with television images of ministers rushing to bail out some of the largest banks and a succession of meetings in Paris over the weekend feeding a climate of fear that has dried up credit just as some economies head for recession. 
 With European stocks being hammered -- the FTSE index of British stocks was down 7.9 percent, the DAX index of German stocks was down 7.1 percent and the CAC index of French stocks down 9 percent -- finance ministers gathered ahead of a meeting in Luxembourg on Tuesday to address the crisis and discuss a sharp increase in the level of deposit insurance across all 27 European Union member states. 
 But other bold Europe-wide approaches to the crisis have not yet emerged. Earlier Monday, Germany ruled out contributing money to a pan-European effort, even as officials said they were considering a broad package to shield their nation's banks. 
 Meanwhile, authorities in Austria moved to match Germany's decision on Sunday to guarantee bank deposits, and Spain pledged to follow suit if a single euro-zone policy was not found soon. Denmark went further, announcing it would also guarantee loans that banks make to one another overnight as banks continue to recoil from doing business among themselves. 
 Farther away, Iceland, one of the world's hardest-hit countries from the credit turmoil, fell deeper into crisis as the government halted trading in all financial stocks after the banking sector neared collapse. 
 The country suffered a fresh downgrade of its credit rating Monday after the government sought to assert sweeping new powers to intervene with troubled banks. Facing a cash squeeze as foreign investors withdraw their money, the government also urged its pension funds to repatriate money in an effort to reel in more cash. 
 That individual European governments continue to plot their own course in the crisis has not helped: Europe's big cross-border banks find themselves trying to conserve capital and are cutting back on lending to local businesses.
 In some cases, even loans within the same bank have been held up while trying to cross borders because different units enjoy varying degrees of state backing, according to one top European banker who spoke anonymously because of market concerns. 
 These bottlenecks have altered the thinking of analysts who thought the region might escape the worst, and raised pressure on the E.C.B. to cut interest rates -- perhaps the only significant euro-zone tool to ease the credit crisis that has yet to be deployed. 
 ''The fear in Europe is that a recession may be a protracted one,'' said Holger Schmieding, chief economist for Europe at Bank of America. ''I hope we won't go there, but the mood is dark.''
 Mr. Schmieding now expects the economies of Britain, Germany and France -- Europe's largest -- to contract in the fourth quarter of 2008. For 2009, he predicts growth of just 0.4 percent among the 15 nations that use the euro, less than half what he was predicting six weeks ago. ''There's a realization that the credit crunch has hit Europe with a lag of one year, and that's turning into a serious constraint on the economy for the next six months,'' he said.
 At the same time, governments seem to have different priorities for cross-border institutions that need help, like Fortis, which had large operations in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. 
 While government and central bank officials in Brussels were eager to sell the Belgian units of Fortis to BNP Paribas of France, sealing a deal Monday, officials in the Netherlands nationalized Fortis's Dutch unit on Friday, keeping what had once been ABN Amro's local retail branches in Dutch hands.
 In London, the British government appeared to be moving closer to a partial nationalization of the industry to avoid falling behind other European countries that have moved ahead with their own strategies. Speaking to the House of Commons Monday, the chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair Darling, said the government ''will do whatever it takes to ensure that we stabilize the banking system.'' 
 ''All practical options must remain open to us,'' he added, but he gave no timetable for action.
 Top European officials defended their case-by-case approach to easing the crisis at the national level in the absence of pan-European tools like a federal budget and single banking supervisor. They also implied that the American strategy, which included a rocky road to final approval of a $700 billion rescue package, was not foolproof.
 ''It strikes me that governments have lived up to their responsibilities,'' Mr. Trichet said ahead of a meeting of European financial ministers in Luxembourg scheduled for Tuesday. ''Who can say we did worse than on the other side of the Atlantic?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, before a meeting of euro-zone finance ministers on Monday. The Continent is threatened by a period of contraction.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WOLFGANG VON BRAUCHITSCH/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B9) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EURO ZONE (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (55%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); CENTRE FOR ECONOMIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); ICELAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); DENMARK (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



282 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Unions Warn of a Fight If Pensions Are Trimmed

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
New York City's powerful municipal labor unions have been unusually quiet as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg moves to cut the city's budget, but a fight appears to be brewing over efforts to trim pensions.
 The unions have remained silent as the city's economy and budget have soured, partly because Mr. Bloomberg has worked hard to maintain good relations with labor, and partly because the unions lack leaders like the cantankerous, outspoken giants of municipal crises past, like Albert Shanker and Victor Gotbaum. 
 Moreover, some labor experts suggested that Mr. Bloomberg had delayed making any painful cuts until after announcing his desire for a third term because he did not want to anger the unions.
 Nonetheless, if the city's budget situation deteriorates, as many experts predict, and if the mayor starts taking tougher actions -- like laying off workers or pushing for less generous pensions for future employees -- then, labor leaders warn, they will put up a fight. 
 During past budgetary crunches, municipal unions have sometimes taken a combative approach, sometimes a cooperative one, as mayors have undertaken various deficit-fighting measures, including a two-year wage freeze in the 1990s and layoffs and wage deferrals during the 1975 fiscal crisis. 
 Edward Skyler, the deputy mayor for operations, did little, in an interview, to reassure labor about the possibility of painful cuts. ''The mayor is not going to preclude any option, given the circumstances we find ourselves in,'' he said.
 Some fiscal watchdog groups are pressing Mr. Bloomberg to move quickly to take deficit-cutting actions that could infuriate municipal unions, including requiring many city employees to start paying health care premiums and creating a new, less generous, fifth tier of pensions for all future city employees. 
 Randi Weingarten, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, said it would be unfair to penalize municipal workers.
 ''At the first moment of trouble, the city shouldn't go after the people who are the backbone of this city,'' said Ms. Weingarten, who recently stepped down as head of the Municipal Labor Committee, the umbrella group for municipal unions. ''Here we have a situation where the gazillionaires have created a mortgage crisis and credit crisis, and a lot of well-off people have benefited. And so it would be dead wrong to ask workers who average pensions of $19,000 a year to be sacrificed.''
 Mr. Skyler said city agencies would soon make recommendations about how they hope to meet the mayor's goal of cutting agency budgets across the board by 2.5 percent this year and 5 percent next year. That means cuts of $500 million this year and $1 billion next year. And some budget experts warn that there might be more, deeper rounds of cuts.
 ''As far as cuts in different agencies and how they will affect the work force, we're in the beginning of the process,'' Mr. Skyler said. ''We've been through tough times before, and we're entering this period with a spirit of partnership.'' 
 Mr. Skyler said the mayor favored legislation to create a fifth pension tier, which would give future hires a smaller pension than current or retired city workers have. Under state law, the city is prohibited from reducing the pensions promised to current employees.
 ''The mayor has advocated for a fifth tier in the past, and it's certainly something, if there's an opening, we will pursue again,'' Mr. Skyler said.
 Arthur Cheliotes, president of a communications workers' local representing 9,800 municipal employees, most of them middle managers, assailed the idea of a new pension tier.
 ''That's the wrong solution,'' he said. ''Too many Americans don't have enough to retire on as we've seen 401(k)'s turn into 101(k)'s. If we're planning to attack pensions, then we need to look at this again.''
 Charles Brecher, research director for the Citizens Budget Commission, a business-backed watchdog group, said that because of the stock market's recent drop, the city would have to contribute far more to finance pensions for current employees. As a result, he said, the city should seek to create a less generous pension tier, which could save the city billions of dollars over the next decades.
 ''The mayor has put a 7 percent increase in property taxes on the table, and at some point, people might say, 'You can't call for more taxes without asking for some savings from the municipal work force,' '' Mr. Brecher said.
 Mr. Bloomberg's cost-cutting moves have met little protest partly because the city's unions are waiting for him to announce specific cuts and whether they will involve layoffs. Several union presidents said they were holding their fire because they have developed a good working relationship with the mayor.
 ''At this point I'm not worried about layoffs,'' said Harry Nespoli, president of the Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association and the new chairman of the Municipal Labor Committee. ''When the mayor says, 'We're not near layoffs,' I have to believe him.''
 Mr. Nespoli said he was reassured that the mayor seemed intent on cutting municipal services as little as possible to help keep New York an attractive and safe place.
 Mr. Bloomberg's relations with the city's unions have improved since he stopped demanding that raises be financed by productivity-increasing concessions. Also helping keep the peace are the sizable contracts the city has signed with several unions that have rarely hesitated to attack Mr. Bloomberg, most notably the teachers' union and the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, the largest police union.
 Joshua B. Freeman, a labor historian at the City University of New York, said, ''Settlements averaging raises of 4 percent a year without any significant givebacks means that, at least for the moment, things have quieted down without any flashpoints.'' 
 While union officials say the 4 percent raises make sense, considering that fuel and food prices have soared, some budget experts, like Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the Independent Budget Office, warns that the 4 percent raises on top of fast-rising health care and pension costs could strain the city's budget.
 At the moment, city officials are bargaining intensely with several important unions, including the Uniformed Firefighters Association and District Council 37, the city's largest public employee union. That, union leaders acknowledge, has discouraged them from protesting any feared budget cuts.
 ''We're always concerned about budget cuts because we're the people who deliver the services to the community,'' said Lillian Roberts, executive director of District Council 37, which represents about 120,000 city workers.
 ''But when you're negotiating a contract, you don't get into picking a fight.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



283 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Dealbook; THE VIEW FROM THE STUMP; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: It's the Economy, Redux

BYLINE: By CYRUS SANATI

 BODY:
SENATORS John McCain and Barack Obama have found themselves in the middle of an economic nightmare. The economy now leads energy, Iraq and taxes as the issue Americans care most about in this election cycle.
The presidential candidates' views on Wall Street, private equity tax breaks and esoteric accounting procedures have become as important as their positions on Iran's nuclear ambitions and high gasoline prices.
For instance, the first presidential debate was supposed to focus solely on foreign affairs, but questions on the economy dominated the event.
So what are the candidates' views on Wall Street and their institutions? Both men are aiming criticism at the financial industry, amid the public outrage over the government's $700 billion bailout plan. The word ''greed'' is used frequently. They blame ''predatory lenders'' and ''speculators'' for the economic crisis, as well as regulators, accusing them of being ''asleep at the switch.'' 
But they have not always been so negative about Wall Street. Both candidates have accepted contributions from groups and individuals in the financial, insurance and real estate industries. Mr. Obama has collected about $25 million, while Mr. McCain has collected $22 million, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Both have had words of praise for Wall Street and have befriended many of the financial world's titans.
Here is a sampling of what they have said both before the crisis and after it took center stage.
Senator John McCain
FINANCIAL CRISIS
''A McCain-Palin administration will replace the outdated patchwork quilt of regulatory oversight and bring transparency and accountability to Wall Street.''
CAMPAIGN EVENT IN TAMPA, FLA.
SEPT. 16, 2008
''We are square in the greatest financial crisis of our lifetimes.''
CAMPAIGN EVENT IN INDEPENDENCE, MO.
OCT. 1, 2008
WALL STREET
''This foundation of our economy, the American worker, is strong, but it has been put at risk by the greed and mismanagement of Wall Street and Washington.''
CAMPAIGN EVENT IN TAMPA, FLA.
SEPT. 16, 2008
''Honest people on Wall Street -- and there are many -- will have a friend in the White House when I am president. The financial services industry plays a vital and honorable role in our economy, and I will seek reforms to help them to serve their shareholders and employees.''
CAMPAIGN EVENT IN TAMPA, FLA.
SEPT. 16, 2008
SPECULATORS
''The primary regulator of Wall Street, the Securities and Exchange Commission -- we call the S.E.C. -- kept in place trading rules that let speculators and hedge funds turn our markets into a casino.''
CAMPAIGN EVENT IN CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA
SEPT. 18, 2008
''. . . the current threat to our prosperity comes not from overregulation. The culprits are corporate executives who exploited regulatory loopholes.''
NATIONAL PRESS CLUB, WASHINGTON
JULY 11, 2002
REGULATION
''The interests of investors and issuers are, and should be, in conflict. The right balance can best be found by the market, not by 'full service' financial companies that house both investment and issuing services.''
NATIONAL PRESS CLUB, WASHINGTON
JULY 11, 2002
''As far as a need for additional regulations are concerned, I think that depends on the legislative agenda and what the Congress does to some degree, but I am fundamentally a deregulator. I'd like to see a lot of the unnecessary government regulations eliminated, not just a moratorium.''
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
MARCH 3, 2008
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
'' . . . we must make fundamental changes in corporate oversight that will securely place the interests of the shareholding public above the private interests of the few who are entrusted to manage or advise those companies.''
NATIONAL PRESS CLUB, WASHINGTON
JULY 11, 2002
MERGERS
''I say to corporate America: I am worried about these consolidations. These mergers are the biggest in history. I want them watched carefully, and I want them carefully reviewed. I am a free trader, and I am antiregulation. But I do read history, and I know there have been times these consolidations have hurt consumers. That's just a fact.''
BUSINESS WEEK
MARCH 6, 2000
PRIVATE EQUITY
''. . . there has been a lot of fuss over 'reforming' the tax treatment of private equity firms. There's a lot of mumbo jumbo about 'privately traded partnerships,' 'passive investments' and 'carried interest' that is best left to the lawyers and economists.''
ECONOMIC CLUB OF SOUTHWEST MICHIGAN
BENTON HARBOR
JULY 23, 2007
Senator Barack Obama
FINANCIAL CRISIS
''We let the special interests put their thumbs on the economic scales. The result has been a distorted market that creates bubbles instead of steady, sustainable growth; a market that favors Wall Street over Main Street, but ends up hurting both.''
CAMPAIGN EVENT, GOLDEN, COLO.
SEPT. 16, 2008
''We're at a defining moment in our history because of our economy, which is teetering on the brink of chaos.''
CAMPAIGN EVENT, LANCASTER, PA.
MARCH 31, 2008
WALL STREET
''We have seen economic growth over the last decade, but all that growth is concentrated on Wall Street instead of Main Street.''
IOWA CAMPAIGN EVENT
AUG. 15, 2007
''Nothing wrong with Wall Street, and nothing wrong with making money in business.''
''IMUS IN THE MORNING''
NOV. 22, 2004
SPECULATORS
''There are many to blame for causing the crisis we are in, and that starts with the speculators on Wall Street who gamed the system and the regulators in Washington who looked the other way.''
CAMPAIGN EVENT, DETROIT
SEPT. 28, 2008
''And it is very important, I think, for us to be able to crack down on that speculation by closing the loopholes that lead this out of the regulatory framework that exists for most futures -- futures markets.''
NEWS CONFERENCE IN CHICAGO
JUNE 25, 2008
REGULATION
''We must investigate rating agencies and potential conflicts of interest with the people they are rating. And we must establish transparency requirements that demand full disclosure by financial institutions to shareholders and counterparties.''
CAMPAIGN EVENT, GOLDEN, COLO.
SEPT. 16, 2008
''I do not believe the government should stand in the way of innovation or turn back the clock on an older era of regulation.''
REMARKS ON THE ECONOMY, NEW YORK CITY
MARCH 27, 2008
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
''It's bad for business when boards allow their executives to set the price of their stock options to guarantee that they'll get rich regardless of how they perform.''
SPEECH AT THE NASDAQ, NEW YORK CITY
SEPT. 17, 2007
MERGERS
''It's bad for competition when you have an administration that's willing to approve merger after merger with barely any scrutiny.''
REMARKS ON THE ECONOMY, NEW YORK CITY
MARCH 27, 2008
PRIVATE EQUITY
''We've lost the balance between work and wealth. I will close the carried interest loophole and adjust the top dividends and capital gains rate to something closer to -- but no greater than -- the rates Ronald Reagan set in 1986.''
FROM A SPEECH, ''TAX FAIRNESS FOR THE MIDDLE CLASS,'' AT THE TAX POLICY CENTER IN WASHINGTON
SEPT. 18, 2007

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE POPE/GETTY IMAGES (MCCAIN), STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); PREDATORY LENDING (68%); QUILTS & QUILTING (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (88%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (67%) FLORIDA, USA (88%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



284 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: The Crisis Agenda

 BODY:
As stocks cratered on Monday and lending and borrowing remained frozen, the Bush administration rushed to implement the $700 billion bailout enacted on Friday. The Treasury Department said that it would soon post help-wanted ads on its Web site for asset managers to run the program and that because of the urgency, the hiring may be ''through other than full and open competition.'' 
 Is it any wonder that the markets lack confidence? One business day after the bailout was enacted, and it already had a tilting-at-windmills quality. 
 That is why it is vital that Barack Obama and John McCain, one of whom will inherit a real mess, address the financial crisis in real detail at their debate Tuesday night.
 The most immediate question is how the crisis will affect their plans and promises -- because it will. 
 At the first presidential debate, on Sept. 26, Mr. Obama at least acknowledged that the crisis would force him to prioritize more carefully on government spending. But then he said ''we can't shortchange'' energy independence, health care reform or investing in education and infrastructure. Pressed further, he said that within those broad categories, programs may have to be delayed or deferred but offered no details. 
 Mr. McCain brushed aside the crisis, saying that ''no matter what'' the nation has to cut federal spending and ''examine every agency of government'' -- the same prescriptions he always offers. Then Mr. McCain boasted about killing a $6.8 billion weapons contract, an act of no relevance to the financial crisis.
 The big issue for each candidate is not spending, per se, but how the crisis will affect their promises on taxes. Mr. Obama has said that he would raise taxes on the wealthy, starting next year, to help restore fairness to the tax code and to pay for his spending plans. With the economy tanking, however, it's hard to imagine how he could prudently do that. He should acknowledge the likelihood of having to postpone a tax increase and explain how that change will affect his plans. Then, he can promise to raise those taxes as soon as the economy allows. 
 Mr. McCain has an even tougher job. To be straight with voters, he would have to acknowledge that the centerpiece of his economic plan -- to permanently extend the Bush tax cuts beyond their expiration in 2011 and to add billions of dollars of new tax breaks -- is impossible. If he went ahead with those plans, the national debt would explode, undermining the borrowing that the nation must undertake to finance the bailouts. 
 We would like to hear the candidates tell Americans how they will stand up for homeowners. Mr. Obama supports amending the bankruptcy code so courts can modify troubled mortgages. Mr. McCain does not, clinging to the fiction that the mortgage industry will somehow, someday, voluntarily rework most of the junk loans. 
 Americans deserve to hear much more detail about how the candidates would reform the financial system to prevent another crisis like this one. Saying that they're in favor of more and better regulation is not enough. Again, Mr. Obama has the edge over Mr. McCain, who until recently was a committed deregulator. 
 In particular, the candidates need to say what rules they would support to rein in derivatives, like the $62 trillion market in credit default swaps, the complex and unregulated financial bets that led to the bailouts of Bear Stearns and American International Group. Swaps were exempted from regulation in 2000 by legislation pushed through by then-Senator Phil Gramm, Mr. McCain's economic guru. Re-regulation of derivatives involves imposing vastly more transparency on derivative traders and investors, which they are sure to resist, and establishing exchanges or clearinghouses where regulators can monitor trading on an ongoing basis. 
 Substantive answers to the financial crisis are not the stuff of sound bites. It is time for the candidates to rise to the occasion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TAX INCREASES (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); WEB SITES (57%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (52%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



285 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 60 words

HEADLINE: The Dismal Questions

BYLINE: By JOSEPH E. STIGLITZ, R. GLENN HUBBARD and MYRON S. SCHOLES

 BODY:
John McCain and Barack Obama will meet tonight in Nashville for the second presidential debate. As Americans worry about a confusing federal rescue plan, a falling stock market and a financial crisis that is spreading across the globe, the editors of the Op-Ed page asked three economists to suggest the questions they would most like to hear the candidates answer. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK TODD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (74%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



286 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Shame, Honor and the Government's Loss of Trust

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Nixon, Bush, Palin,'' by Roger Cohen (column, The New York Times on the Web, Oct. 2): 
 Mr. Cohen raises an important point about a lack of shame and honor in today's politics. Many, I believe, can trust government only when it displays those very traits. The reason many citizens balked at the bailout is that they simply do not trust the government that tried to sell it to them.
 If faith in the American market and currency is faltering, who can help restore it? And who can command the confidence of Americans enough to lead policy making to fix the economy? 
 While the political atmosphere is surely different now, Franklin D. Roosevelt made it happen in the 1930s with the New Deal. In 2008, comparable leadership is required to restore American growth and prosperity. 
 If it does not come now, will the United States even have another chance in four years to restore its position of economic pre-eminence?
 Jonathan Esser Easton, Pa., Oct. 2, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen writes that ''the actuarial risk, based on mortality tables, of Palin becoming president if the Republican ticket wins the election is about 1 in 6 or 7.''
 How can anyone know the risk of John McCain's dying in office when Senator McCain refuses to make a full and transparent disclosure of his medical records? The chances of a Sarah Palin presidency could actually be significantly higher should the Republican ticket prevail. 
 Given the questions about Governor Palin's qualifications, Mr. McCain should make a full disclosure of his medical records immediately.
 Bill Ochs New York, Oct. 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (71%); MEDICAL RECORDS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



287 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; Dealbook; JACK FLACK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Memo to Paulson: Keep the Public Focused on the Future

BYLINE: By PAUL PENDERGRASS. 
Paul Pendergrass, a public relations professional writing under the name Jack Flack, can now be read regularly at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
TO: Henry Paulson
FROM: Jack Flack
SUBJECT: Hammer, Hammer, Hammer
I know you don't like worrying about spin. But that's my job, and giving it a little more attention would help you hugely.
Before we get into that, I want to make sure you appreciate what the near-meltdown has done for you. Troubled times breed scapegoats, but disastrous times breed heroes. Three weeks ago, you were an increasingly defensive player in a lame-duck administration, a well-intentioned, high-potential reformer who had become far too busy sweeping up broken glass to do any real reforming. But historically significant leaders are always forged amid times of severe adversity. And today, even your biggest critics still use your name in the same sentence with Hamilton. 
You haven't wasted the opportunity. While any of your recent predecessors other than Rubin would have been roadkill, you grabbed the steering wheel and drove right over the burning bridge.
Now, with Wall Street in shambles and an election less than a month away, every banker, broker, politician, pundit and talk radio listener feels obliged to second-guess your motives, strategy, tactics, execution and bedside manner.
Steel yourself in that reality, and resist the natural temptation to let the inevitable criticisms irritate you. Big systemic catastrophes require bold leadership from individuals who understand that a simple strategy executed with conviction is always far more effective than an increasingly impeccable strategy that never gets out of the garage.
That said, the spotlight is about to get even brighter, and you'll need to raise the quality of your talk to the level of your walk.
Here's the short list of how to do that:
KEEP HAMMERING Keep forcing the action, and thus forcing others to react to your agenda. If you allow the plot to stagnate, you will invite all kinds of creatures to emerge from the swamp and pull you down. Presume Congress will not obstruct you from shifting government funds into the credit markets before it has appointed overseers, and explain to the leadership that they don't want the liability of making Kashkari wait until November before he can go to work. Every time you cut a sizable deal, make sure it stops the show at CNBC, and that you're available to talk about it.
REDEFINE THE CRISIS The public still thinks your plan is supposed to be a full-fledged cure, not simply the essential triage that it actually is. Barnstorm with your buddy Buffett, and make sure he keeps repeating his metaphor about the American economy being a great athlete that just had a heart attack. Make it clear that you are simply the guy with the best available defibrillator.
GET STICKY Many have criticized you for calling your plan a ''bailout,'' a concept that begs for populist rejection. You know you never said it. But you did make the mistake of not naming it something catchy enough to stick. Instead, you referred to it as the ''troubled asset relief program.'' That wouldn't even work as an acronym, given that $700 billion is a lot of money for a TARP.
But the media always need easy handles, and your opponents gave them one that Main Street would naturally loathe.
McCain and others suggested that you should have used the word ''rescue'' instead, which still conjures a charitable connotation that the Limbaugh Nation would find almost as repulsive. Instead, you should have identified it as exactly what it is meant to be -- the Crash Prevention Bill.
OWN PRAGMATISM This is your traditional strength, and every member of your team should wield the phrase ''Paulson pragmatism'' like a light saber. It will be particularly critical as you lean into the natural conundrum of the auctioning process, seeking to balance stewardship of the taxpayers' money with the need to buy and sell at prices that will get the gears turning.
SHIFT THE CONTEXT Nothing clears up an internal squabble about the past like an external threat to the future. Right now, everything is being evaluated relative to what has been destroyed and no longer exists. That means that every action you take will be interpreted within the context of a declining American economy.
As things stabilize, you must take the lead in reframing the overall context in terms of what must be created for the American economy to thrive within the emerging global scheme. When hard-core capitalists bristle about additional controls, for instance, remind them that the nation must equip itself to compete in a new world, where snarling sovereign funds and a weak dollar could make America just another major market.
Remember, after the initial panic passes, competition for the future is always more inspiring than recuperation from the past.
CHANGE GAMES If you manage the next three months well, there will be those who will want you to stick around a couple of more years to give the new administration greater stability. But history tends to punish those who stay too long. Politely advise the president-elect that you will dutifully carry out whatever transition he sees fit -- then get off the stage as fast as you can.
That may turn out to be harder than you think, and you might discover that working through this crisis has actually stoked the fire in your belly. If so, let the transition team know that if they're to create a position to highlight the incoming president's commitment to making real progress on the environment, then you might be the right guy.
After all, who could get more done for the global environment than a bird-watching business pragmatist who knows his way around China?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON THE SPOT: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. speaks to journalists after the House of Representatives rejected the $700 billion bailout last week before approving it Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: An Appraisal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); BAILOUTS (66%); HEART DISEASE (60%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011



288 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: EBay Trims Its Work Force And Makes Acquisitions

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
The Internet company eBay is both tightening its belt and expanding its reach in preparation for the coming economic storm. 
 On Monday, eBay announced it would lay off 10 percent of its 16,000 workers, including 1,000 permanent employees, and pay $1.35 billion to acquire the Web payment firm Bill Me Later and the Danish classified advertising companies Den Bla Avis and BilBasen.
 EBay, based in San Jose, Calif., said most of the layoffs would be in its core marketplace division, which has suffered from declining single-digit growth rates while online commerce has been growing at a double-digit clip. 
 In an interview, John J. Donahoe, eBay's chief executive, said the layoffs were the first significant cuts in eBay history, and that he would be communicating via webcast with eBay's employees around the world to convey the bad news. ''We are treating the affected people with the kinds of values you would expect out of eBay,'' he said.
 Meanwhile, the company is doubling down on what it sees as the most promising parts of its business, like online payments. Revenue from PayPal, which eBay acquired in 2002, is expected to grow at a 35 percent rate this year as large companies like Southwest Airlines and Wal-Mart Stores offer it as a payment option on their Web sites. 
 PayPal got its start by allowing individuals and small merchants to send money to one another over the Internet from their bank accounts or credit cards.
 EBay is paying $920 million in cash and options for Bill Me Later, an eight-year-old firm based in Timonium, Md. The company takes a different approach to online payments. It allows people to buy items on the Internet and then sends them a bill within 30 days, at which point they can either pay the bill outright or take out a loan.
 Bill Me Later works by asking consumers for their date of birth and the last four digits of their Social Security number and then performing a rapid electronic credit check. Because it also knows what people are buying and where they are shipping it, Bill Me Later says it can conduct sophisticated analysis to determine whether purchases might be fraudulent and whether the buyer is capable of paying the bill on time.
 Amazon.com, eBay's main rival in online shopping, invested in Bill Me Later last year and has integrated the payment service into its site. It is unclear whether that relationship will continue. Amazon declined to comment on the transaction.
 Shares of eBay fell on Monday along with the overall market, dropping $1.05, or 5.5 percent, to $17.89. Although eBay's stock is at a five-year low, Mr. Donahoe said the company's strong balance sheet and cash balance have allowed it to take advantage of Bill Me Later's declining value in a market that has been rough on all companies in the finance sector. 
 ''We feel a little like Warren Buffett. We are a strong company, and at times like this we can move to take advantage of the market environment,'' he said in an interview.
 EBay also announced on Monday that it was acquiring the popular Danish classified advertising site DBA.dk and the automotive marketplace BilBasen.dk for $390 million, from the Danish media mogul Karsten Ree. The deal is one of the largest in Denmark's history. A local newspaper reported that the companies had negotiated on and off for four years.
 EBay has been steadily building or buying classified Web sites and already owns properties like Kijiji, Gumtree, Marktplaats, LoQuo and mobile.de. EBay also owns a 25 percent stake in the American online classifieds leader Craigslist, but its interest in buying the firm outright led the companies to sue each other this year.
 EBay's attempt to stitch together a global network of classified advertising sites is partly intended to create an alternative to its sagging traditional business of auctions. For the first time on Monday, eBay disclosed some financial information about its classifieds holdings, saying they generated $260 million in revenue last year -- which it described as three to four times the estimated annual revenue of the closely held Craigslist.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EBay is taking advantage of its strong balance sheet, its chief, John J. Donahoe, says.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK POLICH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (89%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (89%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); RETAILERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%); PAYPAL INC (91%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); LUV (NYSE) (55%); WMT (NYSE) (55%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (91%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%)

PERSON: JOHN DONAHOE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



289 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NET WATCH; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: An Online Shadow From the '80s

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
On the eve of the second presidential debate, the campaign of Senator Barack Obama released a lengthy Internet video on Monday about Senator John McCain's role in the Keating Five scandal of the late 1980s. It is at Keatingeconomics.com, was produced by the Obama campaign and runs for 13 minutes 26 seconds.
 ON THE SCREEN The video opens with a dog-eared copy of testimony given in 1990 at the Senate Ethics Committee's hearings into the Keating Five. They were the five senators, including Mr. McCain, who received political contributions from Charles H. Keating Jr. and were accused of intervening in 1987 to try to protect his Lincoln Savings and Loan Association from regulation. 
 Much of the video shows William Black, a former deputy director of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation and a critic of Mr. McCain, speaking directly to the camera. There is extensive use of historical film, some showing Mr. McCain at the hearings. There are also numerous pictures of the Capitol, some in silhouette, and unflattering black-and-white images of Mr. Keating, who ultimately went to prison for fraud.
 THE SCRIPT The video is narrated by Mr. Black, who describes the scandal in detail.
 Senator Howell Heflin, Democrat of Alabama and chairman of the Senate Ethics Committee, is shown at the hearings saying to the five senators, ''Many of our fellow citizens apparently believe that your services were bought by Charles Keating, that you were bribed, that you sold your office, that you traded your honor and your good names for contributions and other benefits'' and that the senators' actions ''were solely responsible for the saving and loan failures of scandalous proportions.''
 Mr. Black says, ''Charles Keating was and is a very nasty, fraudulent guy.'' He says that the senators tried to ''intimidate'' regulators into postponing new savings and loan regulations and that the collapse of Lincoln, which remained open until 1989, became ''the most expensive failure in U.S. history of a depository institution.'' 
 ''Senator McCain knew the facts,'' Mr. Black says, ''because we had briefed him. He knew this was a criminal enterprise. He knew that what was being done was improper. He knew how much undue political pressure -- his words, at least his words originally -- was being brought to bear. He was uniquely in a position where he could have protested this, and stopped it, stopped this loss, but he did nothing.''
 Mr. Black says Mr. McCain did not learn the lessons from the debacle, is instinctively anti-regulation and ''has continued to follow policies that are going to produce a disaster.'' While the savings and loan failures of two decades ago affected only the United States, he says, today's financial crisis will be felt around the world. ''I'm sick of that,'' Mr. Black says, ''and I'd like to change that. So that's my motivation.''
 THE BUZZ This ''mini-documentary'' serves several purposes. It portrays Mr. McCain as steeped in the kind of cozy deal-making Washington that he has denounced -- far from the maverick image he has tried to project in the presidential campaign. It also implies, unfairly, that he was responsible for the entire savings and loan debacle, which cost taxpayers more than $100 billion, and it tries to link his free-market philosophy to today's financial crisis. It fails to point out that the Ethics Committee, in the end, rebuked him only for ''poor judgment'' and that he has expressed humiliation and regret for the episode. 
 While the video is a useful primer for those not familiar with this aspect of Mr. McCain's career, it is also unnecessarily long and padded with atmospherics, including the requisite ominous music. By highlighting perhaps the most embarrassing episode of that career, it could resonate in a time of plunging financial markets and a souring economy. But it poses a risk for Mr. Obama, because it is a sharply negative critique of his opponent and he promised to rise above such attacks.
 KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ETHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); FILM GENRES (71%); HISTORY (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



290 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGNS SHIFT TO ATTACK MODE ON EVE OF DEBATE

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Julie Bosman, Patrick Healy and Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain and Senator Barack Obama entered their general election contest this summer denouncing American politics as trivial and negative, and vowing to run campaigns that would address the concerns of voters during a difficult time.
 But Mr. McCain made clear on Monday that he wanted to make the final month of the race a referendum on Mr. Obama's character, background and leadership -- a polite way of saying he intends to attack him on all fronts and create or reinforce doubts about him among as many voters as possible. And Mr. Obama's campaign signaled that it would respond in kind, setting up an end game dominated by an invocation of events and characters from the lives of both candidates.
 The change in tone formed a backdrop for the nationally televised debate between the two candidates on Tuesday night, the second of their three scheduled encounters. It comes when Mr. McCain is under increasing pressure to do something to turn around his campaign, with polls giving Mr. Obama an advantage in the race and in who Americans trust more to deal with the economy, the issue that now trumps all concerns. 
 Yet in shifting toward a more negative and personal message, the two campaigns risked seeming detached from the economic anxieties of voters at a time when the financial system is teetering. The risk could be especially great for Mr. McCain, who has ceded political ground to Mr. Obama during the financial crisis and has taken the more combative stance in recent days. A lacerating speech he gave Monday -- ''Who is the real Barack Obama?'' Mr. McCain asked -- was shown on cable television juxtaposed with images of another horrible day on Wall Street.
 ''Whatever the question, whatever the issue, there's always a back story with Senator Obama,'' Mr. McCain said, speaking in Albuquerque. ''My opponent's touchiness every time he is questioned about his record should make us only more concerned.''
 During the day, Mr. McCain's running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin, raised questions about Mr. Obama's ''truthfulness and judgment.'' Mr. McCain's supporters sought to focus attention on Mr. Obama's associations with his former pastor and a onetime 1960s radical. The Republican National Committee sought an investigation into what it called questionable campaign contributions to Mr. Obama.
 Mr. Obama's campaign responded by releasing a slick, 13-minute video describing Mr. McCain's connections with the Keating Fivesavings and loan scandal that tarnished Mr. McCain during the 1980s, a video that Mr. Obama's advisers said had been held in wait in case this moment arrived. Mr. Obama's aides portrayed Mr. McCain as angry and impetuous. Mr. Obama scolded his opponent as trying to turn attention away from the economy.
 ''I cannot imagine anything more important to talk about than the economic crisis,'' Mr. Obama said, campaigning in Asheville, N.C. ''And the notion that we'd want to brush that aside and engage in the usual political shenanigans and scare tactics that have come to characterize too many political campaigns, I think is not what the American people are looking for.''
 Mr. McCain's aides suggested the attacks that he and his running mate had unleashed were intended to set the table for their debate in Nashville, one of the few high-profile moments Mr. McCain has left to reach voters across the country and present a disqualifying version of Mr. Obama. Ms. Palin told a crowd in Florida that she had advised Mr. McCain to ''take the gloves off'' on Tuesday night.
 Still, it may not be easy: This debate will be in a town-hall setting and the candidates will be taking questions from voters, a format that historically has made it difficult to mount the kind of attacks Mr. McCain is looking to make.
 Ms. Palin again invoked Mr. Obama's sporadic encounters with William Ayers, a founder of a 1960s radical group -- amplifying a message the McCain campaign was pushing in a steady stream of e-mail messages to reporters and supporters -- and suggested again that Mr. Obama was ''not one of us.''
 At a rally in Estero, Fla., for Ms. Palin, one of the introductory speakers, Mike Scott, the sheriff of Lee County, referred to the Democratic candidate as ''Barack Hussein Obama.'' 
 In an interview with William Kristol on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times on Monday, Ms. Palin suggested that it would be fair for Mr. McCain to invoke Mr. Obama's relationship to his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., given the incendiary nature of Mr. Wright's views -- even though Mr. McCain has condemned some previous attacks on Mr. Obama linking him to Mr. Wright.
 Strategists from both parties suggested that this kind of turn in tone was inevitable.
 ''There are not a lot of things we can count on these days,'' said Mark McKinnon, a former adviser to Mr. McCain who stepped aside earlier this year because, he told associates, he did not want to be part of a campaign tearing down Mr. Obama. ''But, the sun will rise. The sun will set. And presidential campaigns will go negative.''
 Chris Lehane, a Democratic consultant known as an advocate for tough campaigns, said: ''At the end of the day, campaigns are campaigns. In the last five days, it always comes down to a knife fight in a telephone booth.''
 But several strategists, including Republicans, questioned whether this tactic would be successful for Mr. McCain, given the lateness of the date and the economic crisis washing over the country.
 ''This is not a normal campaign. Normal personal or character-based attacks are not going to work particularly well,'' said Stuart Stevens, a Republican consultant who worked for President Bush's re-election campaign in 2004. ''If your house is on fire, all you care about is who can put the fire out the best.''
 Howard Wolfson, a senior aide to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton during her tough fight against Mr. Obama in the Democratic primaries, had long warned that Mr. Obama's history with Mr. Ayers would provide fodder to Republicans. But Mr. Wolfson said Monday that he did not think it would be effective in this environment, coming so late and at a time of such anxiety about the economy.
 ''It might have made a difference had the financial underpinning of the country not just collapsed,'' he said. ''You're not going to change the subject from the economy.''
 Ms. Palin has several times cited a New York Times article published Saturday in raising Mr. Obama's association with Mr. Ayers, but she has sidestepped its conclusion that the two men did not appear to be close and that Mr. Obama had never expressed sympathy for the radical views and actions of Mr. Ayers. 
 Mr. Obama left it to his surrogates to raise the Keating bank scandal, as he talked about the economy and argued that Mr. McCain was running away from the subject; his aides suggested this would be the tack he would take at the debate.
 Yet if Democrats were once concerned -- and they were -- that Mr. Obama or his campaign did not have the stomach to push back in this kind of fight, the aggressive response by the campaign and the candidate might well have assuaged it. The message out of the Obama campaign -- in advertisements, statements and remarks by surrogates -- was filled with language intended to underline Mr. McCain as hotheaded.
 ''Look, I'm not sitting here with my feet up,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior political adviser. ''I think we have to fight. This is going to be a struggle every day.''
 Mr. McCain's chief strategist, Steve Schmidt, did not respond to an e-mail message requesting comment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Sarah Palin after a speech Monday in Clearwater, Fla. She has advised Senator John McCain to ''take the gloves off.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS O'MEARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
 Senator Barack Obama on Monday at the Grove Park Inn in Asheville, N.C., where he has been preparing for Tuesday's debate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); REFERENDUMS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



291 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Business Cool Toward McCain's Health Coverage Plan

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
American business, typically a reliable Republican cheerleader, is decidedly lukewarm about Senator John McCain's proposal to overhaul the health care system by revamping the tax treatment of health benefits, officials with leading trade groups say.
 The officials, with organizations like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable and the National Federation of Independent Business, predicted in recent interviews that the McCain plan, which eliminates the exclusion of health benefits from income taxes, would accelerate the erosion of employer-sponsored health insurance and do little to reduce the number of uninsured from 45 million.
 That is largely the argument made in recent days by Mr. McCain's opponent, Senator Barack Obama, who has revived a dormant campaign debate over health care with an intensified attack on the McCain plan. Conscious that the issue plays well with swing voters, Mr. Obama devoted a speech on Saturday to characterizing Mr. McCain's plan as ''radical'' and a ''Washington bait and switch,'' and he has reinforced the message in four television advertisements. 
 That has set off a furious back-and-forth between the campaigns, with the McCain campaign countering that Mr. Obama's plan also would undermine employer coverage by mandating that medium and large companies either provide insurance for their workers or pay a tax. The payments would help subsidize a new government health plan for low-income people, and some economists believe it would entice workers away from their employer-sponsored coverage. 
 Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, opened his assault two weeks ago by telling crowds that Mr. McCain ''wants to tax your health benefits.'' He did not explain that Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee, would offer tax credits in exchange to cover the increased liability for many Americans. 
 Over the weekend, Mr. Obama more accurately characterized the McCain plan as a swap but one that would work to the detriment of millions. Middle-class families, he said, would ''watch the system they rely on begin to unravel before their eyes.''
 The business leaders said that was also their fear. Despite steady declines this decade, employers still provide coverage to 62 percent of Americans younger than 65. Surveys show that they want to continue doing so to attract and maintain a productive workforce.
 The business leaders forecast that Mr. McCain's free-market approach would impose particular burdens on small businesses and old-line manufacturers that are already struggling. 
 ''To some in the business community, this is very discomforting,'' said R. Bruce Josten, executive vice president for government affairs at the Chamber of Commerce. ''The private marketplace, in my opinion, is ill prepared today with an infrastructure for an individual-based health insurance system.''
 Health economists are ideologically divided over Mr. McCain's plan. Analysts who support it project that it might provide coverage to 25 million people, while critics predict that the number of newly insured would peak at five million and then decline. 
 Though Mr. McCain says his plan would not add to federal spending, the Tax Policy Center has estimated that it will cost at least $1.3 trillion over 10 years. And while right-leaning economists emphasize that the plan would provide a tax cut for the average American, opponents respond that certain high-earners will face an increase and that some in the middle class may break even only by reducing their coverage. 
 The centerpiece of Mr. McCain's plan is the elimination of the provision that has, since 1954, excluded the value of employer-sponsored health benefits from a worker's taxable income. The exclusion can be worth thousands of dollars for some workers.
 In its place, Mr. McCain would offer all Americans income tax credits of $2,500 per person or $5,000 per family for heath coverage, regardless of how they bought it. 
 Mr. McCain would not change the ability of companies to deduct health benefits as a business expense on their corporate income taxes. And advisers have said he would continue to exclude the value of health benefits from the payroll taxes that finance Social Security and Medicare.
 The income-tax exclusion benefits 162.5 million Americans but costs the federal government $145.3 billion in foregone revenue, second only to the tax break for retirement account contributions, according to the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. 
 Still, the exclusion has encouraged the pooling of workers into large purchasing groups that tend to lower costs. And with group coverage, no one can be denied coverage, everyone pays the same rates and the healthy and wealthy essentially subsidize the sick and the poor. Consequently, it is often more expensive to buy equivalent coverage as an individual, partly because insurers pass along the administrative costs of weeding out unacceptable risks. 
 The exclusion has long been criticized as unfair because the 18 million people who buy health insurance on their own are not entitled to it. Critics also say that it is most valuable to those in high tax brackets with the costliest health plans, that it contributes to job-lock, and that the subsidization of group insurance encourages people to buy more coverage and consume more health care than they need, driving up health spending. 
 Mr. McCain and his health advisers argue that replacing the tax exclusion with tax credits for all would encourage consumers to shop more deliberately, stoking competition in the marketplace and lowering premiums. He would allow them to shop for policies across state lines. 
 ''It will help to change the whole dynamic of the current health care system by putting individuals and families back in charge and forcing insurance companies to respond with better service at lower cost,'' Mr. McCain wrote recently in The New England Journal of Medicine. 
 For some workers, depending on their tax bracket and insurance costs, the new tax credits would exceed the value of the tax exclusion, making the swap profitable. But with the average employer-sponsored family policy costing $12,680 this year, other workers would find the exchange a losing proposition. They would either have to spend more, reduce their coverage or persuade employers to make up the difference.
 Officials with eight business trade groups contacted by The New York Times predicted the McCain plan would raise costs and force some employers to stop providing health benefits.
 A recent survey of 187 corporate executives by the American Benefits Council and Miller & Chevalier, a consulting firm, found that three-fourths felt the repeal of the tax exclusion would have a ''strong negative impact'' on their workers. Only 4 percent said they would provide additional pay to fill any gaps.
 John J. Castellani, president of the Business Roundtable, an association of leading chief executive officers, said his group instead supported extending the tax exclusion to those who bought coverage on their own.
 ''One of the things we don't want to do,'' Mr. Castellani said, ''is jeopardize 170 million Americans who do get insurance through their employers.''
 A number of business officials are worried that Mr. McCain's tax credits would lure young and healthy workers into the individual market to take advantage of cheaper, less-generous policies. That, they say, would leave employers to cover an older and sicker pool of workers, forcing up premiums.
 Workers who found that they had less buying power with the tax credits than with the tax exclusion could be expected to pressure employers to raise salaries or benefit subsidies, the business officials said.
 ''There are huge questions about the $5,000 per family being an insufficient amount in terms of being able to purchase the same coverage,'' said Mr. Josten with the Chamber of Commerce.
 Helen B. Darling, president of the National Business Group on Health, a coalition of 300 companies, agreed that many workers would face a net loss. ''The last thing you want to do to the average working person, especially when you're bailing out big financial companies, is take something they hold near and dear partially away,'' Ms. Darling said.
 Economists forecast that the problem would worsen over time because Mr. McCain, according to advisers, would index his tax credits to overall inflation. Health insurance premiums have grown four times faster than inflation since 1999.
 James A. Klein, president of the American Benefits Council, said concern that the tax credits would not keep up with inflation was a primary reason his 280 member companies ''take a very dim view'' of repealing the tax exclusion.
 Mr. McCain theorizes that if the government's subsidization of health care is capped, consumers will cut back on their use of the system, slowing the growth in spending. But critics worry that he overestimates his ability to control health costs, and that a growing number of people will find they cannot obtain traditional coverage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John and Cindy McCain on Monday in New Mexico. Business leaders say his proposal will erode employer-sponsored insurance.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); FAMILY (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (67%); EXECUTIVES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (52%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (58%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (58%); NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); CINDY MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



292 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Bush, Though Not Campaigning, Delivers a Message to Voters: 'Judges Matter'

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
When he ran for office in 2000, President Bush vowed to appoint ''more judges like Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia.'' On Monday, the opening day of the Supreme Court's new term, Mr. Bush came to the critical swing state of Ohio to remind Americans that he has lived up to that promise -- and to make the case, if only obliquely, that so would Senator John McCain.
 ''The lesson is clear: Judges matter to every American,'' Mr. Bush told members of the Federalist Society, a conservative legal group, after ticking off a list of narrowly decided Supreme Court decisions, including two he regards favorably -- one upholding a ban on the medical procedure critics call partial-birth abortion, and another overturning a ban on gun ownership in the District of Columbia. 
 ''Our belief in judicial restraint is shared by the vast majority of the American people,'' Mr. Bush said, adding that he had kept his pledge to ''seek judges who would faithfully interpret the Constitution -- not use the courts to invent laws or dictate social policy.''
 Legal experts say Mr. Bush has had a profound impact on the judiciary, reshaping it with a conservative tilt that could long outlast his administration. But with the Supreme Court split 5 to 4 on many decisions, both parties agree that it will take another vacancy -- to be filled, presumably, by the next president -- to either seal or undo that legacy.
 Mr. McCain has vowed to follow Mr. Bush's approach in appointing judges, and in previewing Monday's remarks, the White House circulated a document saying Mr. Bush would ''reiterate that America deserves a president who will appoint strong, well-qualified judges.'' In the end, though, Mr. Bush steered clear of mentioning Mr. McCain or the presidential race, but made the link implicitly, saying, ''The selection and confirmation of good judges should be a high priority for every American.'' 
 Mr. Bush has appointed more than one-third of the judges now on the federal bench -- including Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito, both well-regarded conservatives on the Supreme Court -- and the audience here greeted him warmly, applauding loudly at the mention of the justices' names.
 Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, responded to Mr. Bush's speech with a statement in which he said the impact of Mr. Bush's appointments ''is being harshly felt by ordinary Americans'' as the courts increasingly side with ''big corporations at the expense of workers, consumers, injured Americans and investors.''
 Mr. Bush has put considerable energy into fighting with Senate Democrats over judges. In 2005, a procedural dispute over Mr. Bush's judicial nominees nearly paralyzed the Senate. It was resolved only after a bipartisan group of 14 senators, including Mr. McCain, stepped forward to broker a deal in which some nominees would be approved in exchange for a promise from Mr. Bush to consult more closely with senators before naming judges.
 On Monday, Mr. Bush accused the Senate of using partisan ''tricks and gimmicks'' to block his nominees. Complaining of the ''broken confirmation process,'' he called on the Senate to use its lame-duck session to confirm pending nominations.
 ''If Democrats truly seek a more productive and cooperative relationship in Washington,'' he said, ''then they have a perfect opportunity to prove it, by giving these nominees the up or down vote they deserve.'' 
 Judicial appointments are an important issue to Mr. Bush's conservative base, and Republicans have successfully used the issue in past years to build enthusiasm for their candidates. This year, with the focus intensely on the economy and, to a lesser extent, Iraq, it is unclear how much attention Americans are paying to the courts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); JUDGES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); GUN CONTROL (68%); ABORTION (54%); FIREARMS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); CLARENCE THOMAS (73%); ANTONIN SCALIA (73%); JOHN ROBERTS (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008



293 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Man Kills His Family And Himself Over Market

BYLINE: By REBECCA CATHCART

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
In a suicide note, Karthik Rajaram wrote that he had considered killing only himself because of his financial troubles, but decided to take his family with him.
 Mr. Rajaram, 45, shot his wife, three sons and mother-in-law in their bedrooms over the weekend, the police said, then shot himself. The police found him on Monday on the floor of a bedroom his youngest sons shared, close to their bodies.
 On Tuesday, friends and colleagues said they were stunned to learn of the killings and unaware of the family's financial problems. The police said that in one of his two suicide notes, Mr. Rajaram said he was ''broke,'' having lost most of his assets in the plummeting stock market. The police said he had been planning the killings for weeks. 
 Mr. Rajaram in 1999 registered a private holding company, SKGL L.L.C., in Nevada to manage his family's assets, said his lawyer, Christopher R. Grobl of Las Vegas, and renewed the company's license last December. Mr. Grobl said he had overseen nonfinancial filings for the company and did not know its worth. 
 Mr. Rajaram had been unemployed for several months, the police said. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, he worked for Sony Pictures in Los Angeles. He then took a job with the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, said Greg Robinson, a former colleague there. 
 Mr. Robinson said he became friends with Mr. Rajaram and hired him in 2003 to work at Azur Partners, a management consulting firm Mr. Robinson co-founded. But Mr. Rajaram proved unreliableat work, he said, and Mr. Robinson fired him 10 months later. 
 ''He was extremely bright and capable but emotionally unstable,'' Mr. Robinson said. ''We suspected that there was more going on in his life, deeper issues.''
 A 2001 article in The Daily Telegraph of London said Mr. Rajaram had earned about $:875,000, or $1.2 million, after a voluntary liquidation of NanoUniverse, a company he had founded. His initial investment was $:12,500, The Telegraph said.
 Mr. Robinson said that Mr. Rajaram had been involved in various business ventures after that but that the men had not spoken since 2005. 
 ''I wish he'd called me; I would have helped him,'' Mr. Robinson said, adding: ''He was not a violent person. This is very hard to fathom.''
 Indira Parthasarathy, 72, who was friends with Mr. Rajaram's wife, Subasri, 39, and her mother, Indra Ramasehan, 69, said the couple's three sons were standout students. Two of them, Ganesha, 12, and Arjuna, 7, attended schools near their home, and the eldest, Krishna, 19, was in his second year at the University of California, Los Angeles, taking business and economics classes. He had a full scholarship, said Claudia Luther, a university spokeswoman.
 Victor Bhattacharjee, 22, who was president of the South Asian fraternity Delta Phi Beta when Krishna Rajaram pledged last year, said his friend seemed close to his family, going home every weekend.
 ''He definitely respected his father; he made that obvious,'' Mr. Bhattacharjee said. ''He mentioned that his father always knew the right thing to do.''
 Detective Humberto Fajardo of the Los Angeles Police Department said Mr. Rajaram had written two suicide notes, one addressed to the police and one to two friends. In them, he described losing his money in the stock market. He wrote that he had ''broken down emotionally, physically and financially,'' Detective Fajardo said. 
 On Monday morning, a family friend went to the home after Mrs. Rajaram had missed her usual ride to work at a medical billing company. The friend called the police after finding the house uncharacteristically quiet, with both cars in the driveway and newspapers on the doorstep.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct.8 about a Los Angeles man who the police say shot his wife, three sons and mother-in-law and then himself, misstated the scholarship status of one son, Krishna Rajaram, who attended U.C.L.A. He received financial aid, but was not on a full scholarship. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The bodies of Karthik Rajaram and five family members were found in their Los Angeles home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); LAWYERS (70%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (68%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: POLICE FOUNDATION (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



294 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Theaters Monitoring Wall Street Drama

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
For people who work in and around Broadway, as for pretty much everyone else in the country, the main stage in recent weeks has been on Wall Street. Those in both the for-profit theater industry, which depends on wealthy investors, and the nonprofit world, which depends on corporate donations, are anxiously watching to see just what kind of fallout will land on them. 
 ''We would not be doing our jobs if we weren't worried,'' said Andrew D. Hamingson, the executive director of the nonprofit Public Theater. ''I've been reaching out to board members and holding the hands of our funders.'' 
 Karen Brooks Hopkins, the president of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the nonprofit arts center across the river, said that in speaking to contributors, ''we've had a few people who've said: 'I don't want to talk to you now. Call me back in six months.' '' 
 ''The challenge for an institution like mine,'' she continued, ''is how do you maintain the momentum and at the same time cut your exposure down to the minimum? Where do you cut and where do you stay the course? The board asked me to prepare various scenarios of risk.''
 For instance, Ms. Hopkins said, before committing to a show with a high price tag, the trustees want to know how many tickets are expected to sell and how much underwriting will be needed. 
 On Broadway the new season is just starting. Four shows -- ''[title of show],'' ''Xanadu,'' ''Hairspray'' and ''Legally Blonde'' -- have announced closing dates. But most of those decisions were made before Lehman Brothers failed, A.I.G. buckled, and talk of a $700 billion government bailout surfaced. 
 ''Hairspray,'' which just made its closing announcement last week, was pushed into that decision ''because of the economy,'' said Richard Kornberg, the show's press spokesman.
 Privately, theater executives say that a number of coming shows have lost an investor or two, but it is unclear whether this will prove fatal. Shows do not have to be fully capitalized until the first preview, so even those that have lost investors have a little wiggle room to find substitutes.
 Rocco Landesman, the president of Jujamcyn Theaters, which owns five Broadway houses, said that September and October were traditionally slow months for ticket sales. Just how much of an effect a troubled economy will have on theatergoers, he said, will not become clear until the end of this month, when people generally begin buying seats for the holidays. 
 Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization, Broadway's biggest landlord, said that it was still too early to quantify the impact on Broadway, but that he did not expect a big drop in attendance, which is dominated by tourists.
 Broadway pulled in 217,949 theatergoers and $16.6 million for the week ending Oct. 5, a slight increase over the 204,293 visitors and $16 million during the same period last year, said Elisa Shevitz, director of communications at the Broadway League, the industry's trade association. The previous week (ending Sept. 28) had a 10.3 percent increase in ticket buyers over last year. 
 One big reason for that increase, though, is that there are simply more shows running this year -- 31 at the moment, compared with 25 at this time last year. (The dollar and attendance figures do not include ''Young Frankenstein,'' which does not provide the league with information on its grosses.) 
 Mr. Hamingson said the Public Theater was still planning to team up with the producer Elizabeth McCann to move ''Hair,'' which had a successful run at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park this summer, to Broadway. 
 He said he was relieved to hear recently that Bank of America promised to cover the Public's Shakespeare in the Park productions at the Delacorte next year. The Public is in good financial shape at the moment because it just finished a round of fund-raising before its fiscal year ended in August, Mr. Hamingson said. 
 That included a $10,000 contribution that had been pledged the year before, by Lehman Brothers. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about concerns on Broadway over the possible effects of the financial crisis misstated the status of the revival of ''Guys and Dolls.'' It is to open March 1 at the Nederlander Theater; it has not been canceled. (More information about the show is in the ''Arts, Briefly'' column on page C2.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TICKET SALES (69%); BAILOUTS (62%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



295 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
The air traffic control tower at the Federal Aviation Administration Academy in Oklahoma City offers views of the runways, the terminal and nearby buildings. But none of it is real; the F.A.A. offers electronic simulations to meet the challenge of training 1,700 air traffic controllers a year for the next decade. 
 nytimes.com/national
 Opinion
 LESSON PLANS Well-Paid Teachers? I'm on Board
 Why one New York City public school teacher is stepping outside her own classroom to support a charter school that pays teachers $125,000 to educate atrisk students.
 nytimes.com/lessonplans
 INTERACTIVE: SAUTe PANS 101: PHYSICS
 A look at how cooking with different types of pans changes the way heat is distributed.
 nytimes.com/dining
 AUDIO: WRAPPING UP
 The Film Festival
 Stephen Holden narrates a slide show of the final week of the New York Film Festival.
 nytimes.com/movies
 AUDIO: A PAEAN TO PAELLA
 The Dining critic, Frank Bruni, discusses Socarrat, a paella bar in Chelsea, which he gives one star.
 nytimes.com/dining
 SLIDESHOW: MERCURY, UP CLOSE
 The latest photos from a NASA fly-by of Mercury, in which Messenger passed just 125 miles above the surface of the planet.
 nytimes.com/space
 VIDEO: THE MINIMALIST
 Mark Bittman revisits the wildly popular no-knead bread recipe, making the process shorter.
 nytimes.com/dining
 VIDEO: THE FINANCIAL CRISIS REACHES EUROPE
 Marcus Mabry, international business editor, discusses how the financial crisis has spread to Europe and what leaders on the Continent are doing about it. 
 nytimes.com/business
 SLIDESHOW: A LOOK AT 'A MAN'
 A slide show of photos from the Broadway revival of Robert Bolt's play ''A Man for All Seasons,'' starring Frank Langella as Sir Thomas More. Also, a link to the original 1961 review in The New York Times. 
 nytimes.com/theater

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); FILM (90%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (72%); EURO CRISIS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MERCURY (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



296 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: At Tulane, a Sports Revival

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
Rick Dickson did not have much to brag about when a group of 23 prospective athletes visited Tulane University in January 2006, four months after Hurricane Katrina flooded the campus and caused the cancellation of classes for the fall semester.
 The home football stadium, the Superdome, was closed for repairs. The athletic center, which had been inundated in four feet of water, had only recently reopened. Of 16 sports that were offered at Tulane before the storm, eight were suspended in a round of budget cuts meant to stave off financial collapse.
 Dickson, the athletic director, and Scott Cowen, the university president, were grimly forthright in what they told the athletes: If you are afraid of adversity, they said, this is probably not the right place. You are inspired by this type of opportunity, or you are not.
 Yet, by the end of the weekend, all but two of the athletes committed to Tulane, a success rate nearly unheard of in college athletics. 
 ''I don't know if I've ever been a part of a weekend like that,'' Dickson said.
 Like so many institutions in this city, Hurricane Katrina knocked the Tulane athletic department to the ground, threatening its survival. But Dickson's story illustrates what some say has been an unforeseen consequence of the storm's aftermath: the disaster has energized the student body and unified the community around athletics in a way rarely seen in the university's 174-year history. 
 The athletes who toured the campus that January weekend are now juniors, and one, Andre Anderson, is the Green Wave's starting running back. A $12.5 million baseball stadium opened in February. Members of the men's cross-country and outdoor track, women's tennis and women's golf teams have returned to competition this fall, part of a five-year plan to return the eight sports suspended after Katrina. 
 So what if Tulane was clobbered, 44-13, by Army at the homecoming game on Saturday? In a city where Louisiana State flags flutter outside many bars and homes, nearly 24,000 Tulane fans showed up to listen to live music, drink beer, paint their faces blue and green, and -- yes -- watch some football. 
 The energy on campus is a drastic change from five years ago, when tensions between Tulane's academic and athletic factions ran high after administrators considered dropping football or moving their sports programs to the N.C.A.A. Division III level. Although the board decided to keep football and to remain in Division I, the wounds had not yet healed by the time Katrina hit the city.
 ''It was like a one-two punch,'' Mike Johnston, the president of the Tulane Greenbackers booster club, said of the combination of the athletic review and the hurricane. But looking back, he said: ''I think in a lot of ways, Katrina might have helped because it told people New Orleans is worth caring about. Tulane University is worth caring about.'' 
 Even as Johnston and others celebrate the success of Tulane athletics, nearly everyone acknowledges that the program faces significant challenges. Many of the same obstacles persist that led the university's board of administrators to review Tulane's athletic program in 2003, including poor attendance at football games and the rising cost of staying competitive in Division I. 
 ''The question came up, as a university, we don't have a lot of resources,'' Cowen said in a recent interview. In 2003, attendance at football games rarely exceeded 30,000, and the athletic department ran an annual deficit that ranged from $7 million to $10 million a year. ''The fans aren't coming to the games and they're not supporting it. So why are we doing it?'' 
 Cowen and others on the board also wondered whether Division I, which is dominated by large, public institutions, was the right fit for Tulane, a selective, private university of 6,700 undergraduate students. ''The real question is, how does it add to the quality of life for the students?'' said Doug Hertz, the chairman of the board's intercollegiate athletics committee. ''And what may be right for L.S.U. and the University of Georgia may not be right for Tulane.''
 After an emotional protest from fans and alumni who did not want to see Tulane end its 115-year history of football, the board decided to keep football and stay in Division I, but with the caveat that the department accelerate its fund-raising and narrow its deficit. 
 By August 2005, Dickson had made significant progress, raising $48.5 million as part of a newly created Perpetual Wave fund-raising campaign. ''Before Katrina, they were closing that gap,'' Cowen said. ''They weren't where we wanted them to be, but they were closing the gap.''
 Although Tulane's campus did not see the worst devastation of Hurricane Katrina, the storm flooded the university with three to five feet of water and caused $650 million in damage. That fall, university administrators considered severe cuts in nearly every department, including athletics. 
 ''Everything was discussed,'' Hertz said. ''At that time, we were really talking about the survival of the university.''
 Many Green Wave fans wondered if the university would drop sports altogether. Cowen and Hertz said that option was never seriously considered. 
 ''If we ever actually wanted to get rid of athletics, that would have been the time to do it,'' Cowen said. ''Instead, we made a conscious decision not to do that.''
 The board decided to suspend half the sports and lay off half its athletic staff of 108. Athletes on teams whose sports had been suspended were allowed to stay on scholarship.
 Of the 67 underclassmen whose sports were suspended, only 19 transferred to other colleges, Dickson said.
 While university administrators were debating the fate of sports at Tulane, its athletes continued their season on the road. Classes had been canceled for the fall semester, but the teams continued to carry the Tulane name. 
 ''In a sense, the athletes became a symbol of Tulane's struggle to survive, and a lot of people became very proud of the athletic program,'' said Gary Roberts, the former faculty athletic representative at the university. 
 In the three years since the hurricane, Dickson has continued to aggressively raise money for the department, including $28 million toward its capital campaign. While the $1.9 million raised for the department's annual fund in 2007 fell slightly short of pre-Katrina levels, a record 2,210 donors contributed money.
 The university's annual subsidy of the department is now about $3.5 million, although that level may be difficult to maintain as Tulane returns to its full athletic program. Men's tennis, and women's swimming and diving will resume next year, and in 2010, the department expects to offer women's bowling and women's soccer.
 ''I think all things considered, they're doing great,'' Hertz said. ''But there's a lot to be considered.''
 Despite the good will generated by Tulane's athletes after Katrina, Cowen said he remained skeptical that the enthusiasm had translated to increased donations or attendance at football games, which continues to be a source of frustration. In 2006, an average of about 19,000 fans attended football games at Tulane, less than the average attendance of 26,600 for other Conference USA universities. 
 Cowen and others attribute the low attendance to several factors. Tulane must compete for fans with the N.F.L.'s New Orleans Saints and L.S.U., which is about a 90-minute drive away. The Superdome, with a capacity of about 70,000, can make even a record Tulane turnout seem sparse. Alumni come from all over the country and often leave the region after graduation. Finally, the team has not had a winning season since 2002.
 ''Fans want to cheer for winning football teams,'' Kevin Moore, the starting quarterback, said. ''And the past couple of years, we haven't been as successful.'' 
 The team is 2-3 after its loss last Saturday.
 Away from the football field, Tulane's athletes have been more successful. The women's tennis team won 11 of its 18 matches at its first tournament Oct. 1, and came home with the doubles title. The golf team has also made a respectable showing at two recent tournaments and is ranked 37th in the nation.
 Several student-athletes said the prospect of attending Tulane at such a momentous time was a major draw. The sentiment is not limited to athletes -- this year, Tulane shut its admission process after receiving 34,000 applications, double the number of the previous year. For athletes competing on newly returning teams, the feeling is enhanced. 
 ''They get to be the face for Tulane's future,'' John Thomas Horton, the women's golf coach, said. ''These are the girls that everybody's going to remember.''
 One of his players, Samantha Troyanovich, a freshman from Grosse Pointe, Mich., said at first she had to reassure her parents that she would be safe in New Orleans. 
 ''All of us had a sense of what we were getting into,'' she said of herself and the rest of the team. ''It's the coolest thing to help rebuild the city, the team and the school.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Campus facilities, including a practice complex, were flooded and sustained $650 million in damage from Hurricane Katrina.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID J. PHILLIP)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TULANE UNIVERSITY)
 Nearly 24,000 fans attended Tulane's homecoming game, top, a 44-13 loss to Army. Andre Anderson, above, is one of 23 athletes who toured the campus a few months after Katrina.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL HABER ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BASEBALL (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); TENNIS (72%); BUDGETS (70%); GOLF (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); BUDGET CUTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



297 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Alcoa Profit Falls 52%; Buyback Plan Ends

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH 

 BODY:
Alcoa, one of the world's largest aluminum producers, reported a 52 percent decline in third-quarter profit on Tuesday and said it would conserve cash by suspending its stock buyback program and all noncritical capital projects. 
 Alcoa, the first component of the Dow Jones industrial average to report earnings, said results were hurt by sharply lower aluminum prices, weaker demand and a charge from curtailing production at a smelter in Texas.
 As a global economic slowdown crimps demand for commodities, aluminum prices have fallen 32 percent, to about $2,250 a metric ton from a high of $3,380 on July 11.
 Alcoa said it earned $268 million, or 33 cents a share, compared with $555 million, or 63 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. 
 The latest quarter included a charge of 4 cents a share to reduce operations at a smelter in Rockdale, Tex., a move that involved about 660 layoffs.
 Revenue edged down 2 percent, to $7.23 billion from $7.39 billion.
 Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa's chief executive, said profits were squeezed as aluminum prices and demand declined and costs rose.
 Those conditions ''will have a greater impact going forward, but will be somewhat mitigated by the easing of energy prices and a stronger U.S. dollar,'' he said.
 He said the suspension by Alcoa of its share buyback program and noncritical capital projects were actions taken ''to conserve cash and maximize profitability through very adverse economic conditions.''
 With the sharp decline in metal prices and increasingly soft demand in significant markets, Mr. Kleinfeld said Alcoa is making selective reductions and is adjusting manufacturing capacity to meet demand in rapidly changing markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (92%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (91%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); METALS MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); US DOLLAR (71%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (92%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (92%); AA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (92%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (92%)

PERSON: KLAUS KLEINFELD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



298 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: With Bonds In Trouble, States Seek Federal Help

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Edmund L. Andrews and Katie Zezima contributed reporting.

 BODY:
California and other states scrambled on Tuesday to cope with bills coming due as they pressed Washington for assistance because the municipal bond markets remain largely closed to them. 
 In Washington, White House officials said they were talking with state officials and reviewing the issue of aid. But despite the urgency of the problem, thorny legal issues have emerged. 
 Though the federal government has taken extraordinary steps to lend money to corporations in the short-term markets, and to provide more money to banks, officials have been stymied over how to assist local governments because of their status as issuers of tax-exempt bonds.
 A longstanding provision of the Internal Revenue Code bars the federal government from guaranteeing tax-exempt bonds. Officials are concerned that if the federal government helps states and others without Congressional action it could put their tax exemption at risk. 
 While officials seek a way around this obstacle, many local governments are running into severe cash squeezes.
 California has the largest and most pressing problem. The state has told the Treasury Department it might need an emergency loan of up to $7 billion to pay its day-to-day bills in coming weeks, including those to school districts and municipal governments due on Oct. 29. Massachusetts has also reached out for help. 
 ''It's critical,'' said Jeffrey L. Esser, executive director of the Government Finance Officers Association. ''There are no buyers out there for the governments, to meet their short-term financing needs.''
 Among the ideas being discussed is finding a way for the federal government to provide some guarantee of municipal bonds without violating the tax code, and in that way building investor confidence in the bonds.
 ''I think there are partial guarantees or other federal programs that would fall short of the full guarantee that might not violate this code section,'' said Richard Chirls, a partner at Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe, the bond counsel to California.
 Another approach may be to include some short-term municipal issues under the Federal Reserve's newest program to buy commercial paper. 
 California has an immediate problem because, like many other places, it receives tax revenue in batches during the year. The state is accustomed to borrowing in short-term markets in the fall, to tide itself over through the lean months before the next batch of tax revenue comes in. The credit markets froze just when California would have issued its revenue anticipation notes. 
 Other governments have run into a cash squeeze because they have issued a type of short-term debt with an interest rate that resets every week. That worked until the credit markets froze, but now the interest rates that governments pay on such debt are tripling or quadrupling. 
 The trouble in the credit markets has compounded the deteriorating finances of many states and cities, which are finding the revenues they had projected months ago are now falling short, sometimes drastically. 
 Andrew A. Davis, executive director of the Illinois Student Assistance Commission, said that if the federal government stepped in to help California, other states might expect similar relief instead of tackling tough budget issues themselves. ''There's going to be very little incentive to levy taxes,'' Mr. Davis said. 
 Even if states get short-term access to credit, many will need to take further steps to balance their budgets. Unlike the federal government, they are generally required to balance their budgets each year.
 In California, the most populous state and one of those suffering the most from the housing slump, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said he would meet with legislators on Wednesday to propose possible routes out of the state's crisis.
 The California treasurer, Bill Lockyer, said he would discuss the possibility of tapping into the state's big public pension funds with their managers. Mr. Lockyer said he would see if they could buy some of the state's short-term notes, or issue a line of credit, if the markets do not improve and the federal government cannot help. 
 Before the problem became critical this month, California was relying on optimistic revenue forecasts to balance its budget. Now it is coming up short again, possibly by as much as $1 billion. 
 Massachusetts, which has also told the federal government it might need assistance, withdrew a planned $750 million offer of short-term notes on Tuesday, for the second time in two weeks, saying that the market seemed inhospitable and that it could dip into a state fund for emergencies. 
 North Carolina said it was fielding calls from other states about how to duplicate an innovative deal it struck to borrow $1.1 billion from the state employees' credit union. It is using the money to provide student loans. Illinois recently completed a similar deal for about $100 million with a group of eight credit unions, also for student lending. 
 The New York State Insurance Department put together a $1 billion package to assist Jefferson County, Ala., on Tuesday, to help keep the county from declaring bankruptcy. It has been teetering for several months, after having issued a large number of variable-rate bonds for major improvements in its sewer system. 
 These unusual measures show just how much pressure some local governments face as their tax revenues dry up and the credit squeeze prevents them from issuing the kind of debt that they have long relied on to handle their operations.
 ''Talking to our members in the last week or so, it is so bleak,'' said Scott Pattison, executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers, adding that just two weeks ago he never would have dreamed the situation would become so dire.
 A handful of well-rated debt offerings did come to market on Tuesday, but for the most part the markets were quiet. 
 The Long Island Power Authority sold the largest municipal bond issue since the credit squeeze began, aided in part by bond insurance provided by Berkshire Hathaway, the company headed by Warren E. Buffett. Berkshire stepped in to fill a gap in the bond insurance business earlier this year, but has received more attention in recent days by investing in Goldman Sachs, the lead underwriter for the utility's bond issue, and in General Electric. 
 The Cold Spring Harbor school district on Long Island also sold a relatively small $7 million issue of tax anticipation notes on Tuesday, but its success seemed to stem from not urgently needing the money. ''We're one of two school districts in the whole state that has a triple-A uninsured bond rating,'' said the district's assistant superintendent for business, William Bernhard. 
 Absent extraordinary measures by the Federal Reserve, investors were not buying anything except Treasury securities, said Mark V. McCray, managing director and portfolio manager for Pimco. 
 ''There is absolute panic in the markets,'' Mr. McCray said. ''People are hoarding cash.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: California's treasurer, Bill Lockyer, discussed options.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL T. POWERS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); SCHOOL BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (51%)

COMPANY: ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE LLP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



299 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: With Credit Drying Up, Car Buyers Bring Cash

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The few consumers who are buying new cars are being forced into bigger down payments or all-cash deals in the latest sign of how the credit crisis is battering an already weak auto market.
 The average down payment on financed car purchases has jumped nearly $1,000, about 20 percent, since July, and all-cash transactions are at their highest point in three years, according to data from the research firm J. D. Power & Associates.
 Tighter credit was a crucial factor in the stunning 26.6-percent drop in September vehicle sales in the United States. 
 In September, sales fell below 1 million vehicles for the first time in 15 years, but analysts fear the market could be even worse in October.
 ''Consumers were already staying away from the showrooms, and when you add in the credit crisis it's like a one-two punch,'' said Tom Libby, chief market analyst for J. D. Power.
 Mr. Libby said his firm was preparing to further cut its sales forecasts. J. D. Power had forecast 14.2 million new-auto sales this year and 14.3 million in 2009.
 ''Those are going to be revised down,'' he said. ''And they're going to go down significantly.''
 Consumers are increasingly being frozen out of the credit market, as banks and other financial institutions continue to tighten their lending practices.
 The result is that many consumers are making larger down payments to secure a loan.
 The average down payment for nonluxury vehicles was $4,946 in the first seven months of this year, according to J. D. Power. By the end of September, however, the average down payment was $5,915.
 And with credit increasingly hard to come by, many car buyers are paying cash. About 31 percent of all nonluxury sales in the last week of September were all-cash deals, the highest level since 2005, Mr. Libby said.
 ''Dealers are simply requiring more cash up front and providing far less credit,'' he said.
 Cutbacks on leasing by auto finance companies are also taking a toll on overall sales. In the first seven months of this year, 16.2 percent of nonluxury sales were lease deals. The total dropped to 9.3 percent, however, in the last week of September. 
 While credit is drying up for consumers, dealers are also struggling to secure financing for their vehicle inventories.
 The finance companies of General Motors, Ford Motor and Chrysler have recently increased the interest rates they charge their dealers.
 Combined with falling sales from a slow economy and high gas prices, the credit crisis is pushing many dealers over the edge.
 About 600 of the 20,770 franchised new-car dealers in the country have closed this year, the largest shakeout in the dealer system since the early 1990s.
 In a speech Tuesday in Detroit, the leader of the National Auto Dealers Association said the unrest on Wall Street was wreaking havoc on the auto market.
 ''Credit is the lifeblood of our industry,'' said the chairwoman, Annette Sykora, who is also a principal in two Ford dealerships in Texas. 
 ''Dealerships need it to finance inventory from manufacturers. Consumers need it to buy cars.''
 She said that typically more than 90 percent of buyers finance their vehicles. But now, some dealers have been unable to get financing even for car buyers with exemplary credit scores.
 ''Dealers who have been in this business for decades say they have never seen anything like this before,'' she said. ''We've heard about dealers who couldn't get financing for buyers with credit scores in the upper 700s. That's just unprecedented.''
 The financial health of thousands of dealers is at risk, and more closures will have a ripple effect in communities across the United States.
 A study released Tuesday showed that profits at dealerships were sinking.
 The study, by the auto research Web site Edmunds.com, said dealer profits from new-vehicle sales had dropped as much as 25 percent from 2007.
 Ms. Sykora said the financial bailout package passed by Congress was vital to stabilizing the credit markets.
 ''It's too early to know whether the fix will work,'' she said. ''One thing is certain: this action is better than no action.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



300 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Editor Of Note, Perched Online

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
A new Web site had its debut this week, thedailybeast.com. But with more than 180 million of the things now online by some estimates, a new one would seem like just another digital drop in an ocean of zeroes and ones. Yawn.
Unless it's Tina Brown doing the dropping. On Monday The Daily Beast used Ms. Brown's gilded e-Rolodex -- hey, look, her pal President Clinton is recommending books on the economic meltdown! And her chum Christopher Buckley's cracking wise! -- to stick its head above the fray.
The Daily Beast, backed by Barry Diller's IAC/InterActiveCorp, is an aggregation of the trivial and the momentous, the original and the borrowed. With a slogan splashed across its home page promising rigorous editing of the culture for complicated times -- ''Read This Skip That'' -- the Beast is aiming to be a smaller, less chaotic version of the World Wide Web itself. 
This being a Tina Brown enterprise, there is, of course, something called The Buzz Board. And the design, with its grids of links, articles and videos, brings to mind the look of the front of a glossy magazine. Some of the features are tricky, or nicely tricked up, depending on your view of technology, including moving headlines that chase the reader's eyes down the page. News features sit beside the digital catnip of ''charticles.'' Opinions abound.
In greeting readers on Monday, Ms. Brown used the site to ask and answer an obvious question at a time of towering informational clutter: ''Why should I visit you when there's already Slate/Drudge/Huffington Post/TPM/Google News and every other magazine and newspaper?''
Her answer: ''Sensibility, darling.''
Ah, yes, Darling: sensibility is Ms. Brown's game. The Daily Beast -- named after the newspaper in Evelyn Waugh's Fleet Street satire, ''Scoop'' -- is relying heavily on Ms. Brown's range of interests (from high to low, from powerful to incredibly powerful) to remain relevant enough to merit daily, even hourly, clicking. Given Ms. Brown's reputation for frantically changing everything in the final hours of closing every magazine she has edited, perhaps a medium that absorbs -- indeed, requires -- constant reiteration will suit her.
Even in the anarchic environs of the Web, Ms. Brown's efforts merit notice, partly because she has landed with a flurry of impact in all her endeavors (give or take a ratings-deprived talk show on CNBC). She first came to attention in 1979 as editor of Tatler, a British magazine, and came to America in 1983 to become the editor of Vanity Fair. In 1992 she was named editor of The New Yorker, where her mixing of high and low, earnest and frothy became a serial hit, altering the landscape of serious magazines and bringing celebrity into broad swaths of the culture.
She followed up those successes by leaving The New Yorker to found Talk, a much-discussed general-interest magazine that lasted three years and was eventually closed in the advertising recession after the attacks of Sept. 11. The magazine's every wiggle and wobble was drenched in hype, which may explain why The Daily Beast appeared on Monday with a minimum of it. The site still hit the radar, though.
''The design is lively,'' said Nick Denton, founder of Gawker Media. But, he added, citing Google's home page, among others, ''it has to be simpler to work.''
Mr. Denton said that graphic clutter or not, he would be among the people looking in. ''I'll definitely read The Daily Beast,'' he said, continuing, ''but I don't think there are that many of me.''
Ms. Brown would beg to differ. ''We have heard from a lot of people who love what we came up with, but we are tweaking and refining even as we speak,'' she said in a phone interview on Tuesday, sounding relieved to be free of interminable print deadlines. ''That's the nice part about doing something on the Web.''
Recalling her days in the crosshairs at Talk, she added, ''the trouble with starting monthly magazines is that you have to go around trying to gather advertising, and the only thing you have to sell is the editor.''
Edward Felsenthal, a former Wall Street Journal editor and The Daily Beast's editor in chief, said that for the time being, there would be no ads. ''We are working on getting the tone and content right, and then we will worry about selling ads,'' he said. ''This is a soft launch.''
If it is, it resembles something of the tone Ms. Brown's friend Arianna Huffington set when she began huffingtonpost.com in 2005: a digital salon for all her show business friends. But The Huffington Post has since morphed -- and found remarkable success -- by tacking to the left and relying on a legion of unpaid bloggers to kick up political content during the most interesting election in years.
Some have suggested that Ms. Brown is merely going down a path of electronic publishing pioneered by Ms. Huffington, but neither woman buys it.
''I have known Tina since she was at Oxford, and I was at Cambridge, and I think she has a wonderful eye with a very clear point of view that will make for a very interesting, highly curated site,'' Ms. Huffington said. ''The great thing about new media is that it is not a zero-sum game. The more compelling content there is on the Web, the more people will be habituated to going there.''
Ms. Brown noted that Ms. Huffington had already contributed to The Daily Beast -- a Tuesday recommendation to see ''War Inc.'' with John Cusack -- and said that talk of that kind of competition was rubbish.
''That is such a binary way of looking at media, and we don't see it that way,'' she said.
Postbinary or not, Ms. Brown does not appear to have lost her touch for creating a stir. On Tuesday, the site's second day of existence, Ms. Brown published an interview with Jennifer Lopez by Kevin Sessums, a longtime celebrity profiler -- an article killed by an unnamed women's fashion magazine, in which he asks her about Scientology, breast feeding, a nervous breakdown and selling pictures of her twins. Those old magazine connections can come in mighty handy.
Within hours gawker.com was speculating about which magazine had spiked the piece; New York magazine's site, nymag.com, had teased apart Ms. Lopez's ''breakdown''; and popsugar.com was drooling over the interview's naughtier bits. After a long time on the sidelines, Ms. Brown was back in the middle of the game, or at least the conversation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tina Brown's new Web site is offering ''sensibility, darling.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
 Jennifer Lopez was featured on thedailybeast.com home page. (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEB SITES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (70%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (70%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (59%); BARRY DILLER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



301 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'DELWENDE'; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: In Burkina Faso, Rebellion Stirs

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
In the feminist fable ''Delwende'' the African filmmaker S. Pierre Yameogo tackles social injustice in present-day Burkina Faso with grace, economy and exquisitely controlled anger. 
 The instrument of his fury is Pougbila (Claire Ilboudo), a 16-year-old village beauty who elicits jealousy from the local girls and appreciative glances from their boyfriends. But the village elders are preoccupied with the decreasing rainfall and rising number of child deaths; led by Pougbila's father (Celestin Zongo), they accuse her mother (Blandine Yameogo, the filmmaker's cousin) of witchcraft and banish her to fend for herself.
 From here ''Delwende'' gathers momentum and emotional force as Pougbila, incensed, sets off to find her mother and expose her father's shameful secrets. Cutting between the women's journeys -- one fearful and hopeless, the other purposeful and noble -- Mr. Yameogo contrasts the shackles of tradition with the stirrings of rebellion, never allowing the heat of indignation to cloud his eye for a striking landscape or an expressive face.
 Using mostly nonprofessionals (Ms. Ilboudo is a dancer, and it shows), he demonstrates how superstition supports patriarchy and how easily both can slide into misogyny. In a country where women can be forced to drink a vile ''truth potion'' or become outcasts, Pougbila's resolute march is more than just an act of defiance: it's the promise of progress. 
 DELWENDE
 Opens on Wednesday in Manhattan. 
 Written (in Moore and French, with English subtitles) and directed by S. Pierre Yameogo; director of photography, Jurg Hassler; edited by Jean-Christophe Ane; music by Wasis Diop; art director, Chef Joseph Kpobly; produced by Mr. Yameogo and Pierre-Alain Meier; released by New Yorker Films. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, Museum of Modern Art. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes. This film is not rated. 
 WITH: Blandine Yameogo (Napoko), Claire Ilboudo (Pougbila), Celestin Zongo (Diarrha), Daniel Kabore (Bance), Thomas Ngourma (Elie) and Jules Taonssa (Raogo). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Claire Ilboudo stars as a teenager who tries to right an injustice.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORKER FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); FILM (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); WITCHCRAFT (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) BURKINA FASO (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Delwende (Movie)>; Delwende (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



302 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Fed Announces Plan to Buy Short-Term Debt

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Mr. Andrews reported from Washington and Mr. Grynbaum from New York. Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve announced a radical new plan on Tuesday to jump-start the engine of the financial system. 
 The Fed said in a statement that it would begin to buy large amounts of short-term debt in an effort to stimulate the credit markets, which have all but dried up. 
 Under the program, the Fed said that it would buy the unsecured short-term debt that companies rely on to finance their day-to-day activities. ''This facility should encourage investors to once again engage in term lending in the commercial paper market,'' the Fed said Tuesday in a statement. ''An improved commercial paper market will enhance the ability of financial intermediaries to accommodate the credit needs of businesses and households.''
 While the move will put more taxpayer dollars at risk, it underscores the growing sense of urgency felt by policy makers in a climate where lending has stalled. The Commercial Paper Funding Facility, ''will complement the Federal Reserve's existing credit facilities to help provide liquidity to term funding markets,'' the Fed statement said. 
 The Fed said it was creating a new entity to buy three-month unsecured and asset-backed commercial paper directly from eligible companies. It hopes to have the program running soon. 
 Also on Tuesday, European Union finance ministers gathered in Luxembourg to seek common ground to buttress the continent's banking system in the face of the financial crisis. Despite proposals from France and Italy, the European Union has eschewed any common fiscal approach to the crisis, mainly because Germany refuses to be drawn into a scheme for fear of being burdened with the costs of rescuing non-German banks.
 The finance ministers more than doubled the minimum level of guarantees for bank deposits in member countries, to 50,000 euros ($68,000), on Tuesday as they battled to shield the Continent's banks from turmoil and build a measure of confidence in its battered financial system. 
 The Fed's plan to buy commercial paper was formulated amid cascading losses in global stock markets, as the banking crisis spread across Europe and investors feared dire consequences for the world economy. The Dow Jones industrial average fell as much as 800 points before a late recovery, finishing down 369.88, below 10,000 points for the first time since 2004. 
 Even before bankers on Wall Street reached their desks on Monday, European stocks were plunging. The Russian stock market dropped 19.1 percent, the biggest decline since the fall of the Soviet Union. Major indexes in London and Frankfurt lost more than 7 percent; stocks in Paris fell by 9 percent. Stocks in Latin America and other emerging economies took their worst collective tumble in a decade.
 Investors around the world are worried about what the evaporation of credit will do to an already-weakened global economy. 
 ''There is a growing recognition that not only has the credit crunch refused to be contained, it continues to spread,'' said Ed Yardeni, an investment strategist. ''It's gone truly global.''
 In the United States, consumers appear to be significantly curbing spending; last month, employers cut more jobs than any month in five years. The $6 decline in oil prices, which settled at $87.81 a barrel, stemmed in part from fears that demand will slacken in the face of a deteriorating economy.
 The Fed plan is intended to renew the flow of credit on which the economy depends. Under its plan, the central bank would buy unsecured commercial paper, essentially short-term i.o.u.'s issued by banks, businesses and municipalities. 
 The market for that kind of debt has all but shut down in the last week, with many major corporations unable to borrow for longer than a day at a time, as banks become more fearful of giving out cash. The volume of such debt totaled about $1.6 trillion as of Oct. 1, down 11 percent from three weeks earlier.
 These credit fears persisted over the weekend despite the $700 billion bailout package that Congress approved last week. 
 The cost of borrowing from banks and corporations remained high on Monday, increased in part by a series of high-profile bank bailouts in Europe, where governments scrambled to save several major lenders from collapse.
 The United States government appears to be pressing ahead with other radical efforts to shore up the financial system, even wading into corners of the markets where it has rarely interfered. 
 Buying commercial paper could open the Fed to difficult conflicts of interest, because it would be juggling the goals of protecting its investment portfolio with its traditional goals of promoting stable prices and low unemployment.
 ''The Federal Reserve really would become the buyer of last resort, trying to jump-start the commercial paper market by taking on credit risk,'' said Vincent Reinhart, a former top Fed official who worked under Alan Greenspan, a former Fed chairman, and Ben S. Bernanke, the current chairman.
 The Federal Reserve has already stretched its resources to the limit by providing hundreds of billions of dollars in short-term loans to banks, Wall Street firms and money market funds. 
 On Monday, the Fed announced that it would once again redouble one of its key emergency lending programs, increasing the size of its Term Auction Facility to $600 billion, from $300 billion. On top of that, the central bank plans to provide an additional $300 billion to banks to meet their end-of-the-year cash needs. 
 Most of the loans are for 28 days and 84 days, the Fed said. Some are shorter -- 13-day and 17-day loans. Aside from Monday's auction, auctions for 28-day and 84-day loans are planned for Oct. 20, Nov. 3, Nov. 17, Dec. 1, Dec. 15 and Dec. 29. Auctions for the shorter loans will be Nov. 10 and Nov. 24. 
 To pay for its mushrooming responsibilities, the Fed has no choice but to keep printing more money. To prevent that flood of new money from reducing the central bank's overnight interest rate to zero, the Fed also announced on Monday that it would start paying interest on the excess reserves that banks keep on deposit at the Fed.
 Paying interest on reserves allows the central bank to set a floor on interest rates and retain at least some control over monetary policy. 
 In its announcement on Monday, the Fed said it would pay an interest rate of 1.25 percent --three-quarters of a point below its target of 2 percent for the overnight Federal funds rate. 
 But the possibility of propping up the vast market for commercial paper could represent an undertaking even broader than the Treasury Department's plan to buy as much as $700 billion in mortgage-backed securities.
 In statements on Monday morning, the Federal Reserve and the Treasury said they were ''consulting with market participants on ways to provide additional support for term unsecured funding markets.''
 By referring to ''unsecured funding markets,'' policy makers signaled that they wanted to intervene directly in the credit markets. Officials said on Monday evening that they wanted to finish a plan as quickly as possible. 
 But the effort is fraught with legal complexities. Though the Federal Reserve has sweeping power to create money and lend it out, experts said it was normally prohibited from buying assets that could lose money. 
 One way around that legal limitation would be to provide money to a separate legal entity that would do the buying and investing on the Fed's behalf. That would be similar to Maiden Lane Funding L.L.C., a special-purpose entity that officials created last spring to hold $29 billion in hard-to-sell securities from Bear Stearns. 
 But so far, the myriad efforts by government regulators to shore up confidence have seemed to yield little relief among investors, some of whom believed the actions have taken on a haphazard air.
 ''People are slowly but surely coming to the realization that playing 'Whack-a-Mole' with each of these issues as they arise, on an ad hoc basis, doesn't get the job done,'' said Max Bublitz, chief strategist at SCM Advisors, an investment firm in San Francisco. 
 On Wall Street, Monday was a frightening day for investors -- the type of day where a 369-point deficit in the Dow is considered a relief. 
 A broad sell-off began at the opening bell and intensified throughout the morning. After 2 p.m., the Dow was down a hair over 800 points, worse than the 777-point drop one week earlier. 
 But around 2:30, investors began to hunt for bargains, sending the Dow briefly back above the 10,000 mark before finishing the day at 9,955.50. The broader stock market closed down 3.9 percent, as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Shares of financial firms, manufacturing outfits and industrial companies all fell sharply. The Dow has lost 1,187 points, about 10.7 percent, and the S.& P. almost 13 percent in a week. 
 The sharp slide on Monday was followed by a 508-point decline on Tuesday, despite assurances from Mr. Bernanke that the government was prepared to do what needed to be done to ease the turmoil.

GRAPHIC: By the end of trading Monday at the New York Stock Exchange, stocks had tumbled 3 percent. FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PAPER (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); STOCK INDEXES (84%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PAPER & PACKAGING (75%); BANK FAILURES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



303 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Borrowing Falls For First Time in a Decade

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Consumer borrowing fell in August for the first time in more than a decade as households, battered by rising job layoffs and the declining economy, cut back sharply on their use of credit. 
 The Federal Reserve said Tuesday that consumer borrowing fell at an annual rate of 3.7 percent in August, before the financial crisis worsened in September, forcing the government to adopt a $700 billion rescue package.
 August's decline in consumer credit was the first time that total borrowing had fallen since a 4.3 percent rate of decline in January 1998.
 The weakness reflected a decline of 5.4 percent at an annual rate in the category that includes auto loans and a 0.8 percent rate of decline in the category that includes credit cards.
 The 3.7 percent rate of decline for overall borrowing followed a 2.4 percent rate of increase in borrowing in July.
 Consumer borrowing, which the Fed defines as all loans not secured by real estate, totaled $2.58 trillion at an annual rate in August, down by $7.88 billion from the July level. That was a much weaker performance than the $5.25 billion increase in borrowing that economists had been expecting.
 Economists are worried that consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of total economic activity, will decline in the third quarter. That has not happened since 1991.
 The economy is being battered by rising job layoffs, a prolonged housing slump and tight credit markets as banks cut back on their lending in the face of record defaults for home mortgages.
 The 5.4 percent drop at an annual rate in the category that includes auto loans reflected the struggles of automakers this year as the weak economy and soaring gas prices cut into sales.
 The 0.8 percent rate of decline in borrowing in the category that covers credit cards came after a 5 percent jump in this category in July.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Borrowing: Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Federal Reserve) Chart details bar graph for June, July and August. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (92%); CONSUMER LENDING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



304 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Forget Logic; Fear Appears To Have Edge

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The technical term for it is ''negative feedback loop.'' The rest of us just call it a panic.
 How else to explain yet another plunge in the stock market Tuesday that sent the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to its lowest level in five years -- particularly in the absence of another nasty surprise? 
 If anything, the markets should have been buoyed by the Federal Reserve saying it would shore up another troubled corner of finance by lending money directly to companies. Stocks did open higher, but then quickly tumbled as rumors swirled about the viability of big financial firms like Morgan Stanley and the Royal Bank of Scotland. 
 Anybody searching for cause-and-effect logic in the daily gyrations of the market will be disappointed -- even if the overarching problem of a crisis of confidence in the global economy is now becoming clear. 
 Instead, the market has become a case study in the psychology of crowds, many experts say. In normal times, it runs on a healthy mix of fear and greed. But fear now seems to rule, with investors often exhibiting a Wall Street version of the fight-or-flight mechanism -- they are selling first, and asking questions later.
 ''What's happening is people are crawling into a bunker and pulling an iron sheet over their heads because they think the sky is falling,'' said William Ackman, a prominent hedge fund manager in New York. 
 And that bunker is getting very crowded, so much so that some analysts are starting to suggest the markets are showing signs of ''capitulation'' -- another term of art to describe what happens when even the bullish holdouts, the unflagging optimists, throw up their hands and join the stampede out of the market. 
 Fear can be seen at every turn -- in headlines raising questions about another Great Depression, and in the crowds gathered around office televisions to track stocks or to parse the latest pronouncements from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, or the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 Even James Cramer, the voluble and long-bullish host of an investing show on CNBC, advised investors to sell some stock during appearances on the ''Today'' show Monday and Tuesday mornings.
 To some, signs of capitulation can be read as an indicator that the bottom may be near. Indeed, Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's Equity Research, is among those who say the market may be close to a bottom. 
 In addition to his analysis of the market, he was swayed by the numerous telephone calls he has received in recent days from professional acquaintances and his sister-in-law, all saying they are getting out of stocks.
 ''More and more people are doing that and selling out,'' Mr. Stovall said.
 The opposite of capitulation, of course, is investing at the height of a bubble. One oft-cited sign of the housing market's top: when dinner parties are dominated by stories about fast profits on flipped condominiums. 
 During the dot-com boom in the late 1990s, it seemed everybody and their grandmothers were piling into stocks. Now they are bailing out. Tuesday was the fourth consecutive day that the S.& P. 500-stock index registered a decline of 1 percent or more. The last time that happened was October 2002, when the index reached its lowest point during the bear market that started in 2000. The S.& P. is now down 36 percent from its peak a year ago, almost to the day, on Oct. 9, 2007.
 Another barometer of panic: volatility, reflected in the so-called Fear Index (or the VIX), which tracks options trades that investors use to protect against future losses. On Tuesday, it climbed to its highest level since the 1987 stock market crash.
 Fear is an immensely powerful force, perhaps more so than greed, said Andrew W. Lo, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has studied investor behavior. 
 Scientists who have studied the brain function have found that the amygdala, the part of the brain that controls fear, responds faster than the parts of the brain that handle cognitive functions, he said.
 ''Fear is a much stronger motivational force,'' Mr. Lo added. ''The loss of $1,000 has a much bigger impact than the gain of a $1,000.''
 He cites a series of groundbreaking experiments in the 1970s by psychologists Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky. In one test, they asked students to choose between a sure bet of $3,000, or an 80 percent chance of winning $4,000 (meaning there was a 20 percent chance of winning nothing). Most students said they would take the $3,000.
 The same question, framed differently, asked them if they would rather lose $3,000 or accept an 80 percent chance of losing $4,000 (with a 20 percent chance of losing nothing). In this case, they said they would take the riskier bet. 
 In other words, they were willing to take a bigger risk to avoid losing money than they were when they stood to make more money.
 Those instincts seem to be taking over. 
 At this point, any spreadsheet analysis of underlying and intrinsic values of stocks becomes meaningless, and concern for preserving wealth overrides the desire to grow it -- what some may call greed.
 ''With negative emotions we tend to have a desire to change the situation,'' said Ellen Peters, a senior scientist at Decision Research in Eugene, Ore. But ''when things are good there is not much desire to change.''
 That perhaps explains why investors are willing to earn virtually no return in Treasury bills just to be assured that they will get their money back, rather than investing in short-term corporate debt that offers a better return but carries some risk. Investors were reminded of that risk after Lehman Brothers sought bankruptcy protection last month.
 Even banks, which make money by lending to businesses, consumers and each other, are hoarding cash. That is why the Federal Reserve said on Tuesday that it would buy commercial paper, the short-term loans issued by companies and banks.
 If the market is indeed close to the bottom, history suggests any rally in the next few weeks will probably be big. Since World War II, Mr. Stovall estimates stocks have recouped about a third of their bear market losses in the first 40 days after the market hits bottom.
 But enough investors have to first be persuaded that the economy and housing market will begin recovering soon. Another major test will be third-quarter corporate earnings announcements that will trickle out in the next three weeks. 
 Perhaps the most important indicator will be the credit markets: Investors will regain confidence when they believe financial firms are adequately capitalized and money is flowing more freely through the financial system.
 Mr. Ackman, the hedge fund manager who has been vocal about his bearish views of some financial companies in recent years, said it is hard to precisely time the market. But, he added, ''I do think that stocks are getting extremely cheap.''
 David Bertocchi, a portfolio manager for Baring Asset Management in London, echoed that sentiment, saying he was beginning to increase his stake in certain companies. 
 He is taking advantage, he said, of panicked selling by hedge funds that have to pay back loans to their brokers. ''That's what drives markets to attractive levels,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A ticker outside the NBC studios in New York emphasized the falling financial markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMANUEL DUNAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (75%); EQUITY RESEARCH (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); CASE STUDIES (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (70%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (70%); RBS (LSE) (70%); RBS (AMS) (70%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); HENRY PAULSON (55%); JIM CRAMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



305 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2252 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: October 8, 2008

 BODY:
International
 GRAPPLING WITH FINANCIAL TURMOIL,
 European Union Remains at Odds
 As the financial crisis radiates around the globe, some of the 27 nations that make up the European Union have broken ranks, opting for self-interested policies to protect their own citizens and banks first. Although finance ministers agreed to take a few steps to shore up markets, they did little to dispel growing doubts that the European Union could grapple collectively with a common problem. PAGE A6 
 U.N. FAULTS BIOFUEL SUBSIDIES
 The United Nations food agency called for a review of biofuel subsides and policies, noting that they had contributed significantly to rising food prices and hunger in poor countries. With policies and subsidies to encourage biofuel production in place in much of the developed world, farmers often find it more profitable to plant crops for fuel than food. PAGE A13 
 TURTLE FAILS TO PRODUCE OFFSPRING
 A complicated attempt by scientists in southern China to save a species, the Yangtze giant soft-shell turtle, by mating two elderly turtles ended without producing any offspring. Xie Yan, the China program director for the Wildlife Conservation Society, said she remained hopeful, despite the setback this year. PAGE A13 
 U.S. TO KEEP TROOPS IN KOSOVO
 Defense Secretary Robert Gates said that the United States would maintain its troop presence in Kosovo until at least late next year and would also continue to provide the country with military equipment and training. Mr. Gates's visit to Kosovo was the first by a United States cabinet member since the country declared independence in February in defiance of Serbia and Russia. PAGE A12 
 PUTIN STARS IN MARTIAL ARTS VIDEO
 Just weeks after Russia's state-run media reported that Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin had saved a news crew from a wild tiger, he is flexing his muscles in an instructional martial arts video. The video is part of a growing media library highlighting Mr. Putin's masculinity that includes episodes of the former K.G.B. agent bare-chested on a fishing expedition and in flight in a fighter jet. PAGE A13 
 CASE IN ALBANIA SPURS SPECULATION
 The investigation into the suspicious death of a whistle-blower in Albania appears to be nearing its conclusion, but with little hope of quelling the doubts surrounding the case. The man, Kosta Trebicka, uncovered evidence of public corruption in the export of ammunition from the Communist era, which led to arrests and charges. He was found dead last month and the inquiry into his death has been anything but routine. PAGE A11 
 National
 GAY COUPLES RUSH TO THE ALTAR
 In California Before Vote
 Since the California Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage in May, there has been a rush of gay couples marrying. In the three months ended Sept. 17, California had more same-sex marriages than Massachusetts had in four years. Some say the surge in marriage license applications came in part because of the looming vote on Proposition 8, which would amend the state constitution to outlaw same-sex marriage. PAGE A14
 QUESTIONING A PROSECUTION WITNESS
 In the trial of Senator Ted Stevens, his defense lawyer characterized Bill Allen, the prosecution's chief witness and a longtime friend of the senator, as someone who betrayed a friend to protect his fortune. Under questioning by the defense lawyer, Mr. Allen acknowledged that ''an explicit part of the contract'' to sell Veco, the oil service company he owned, ''was to cooperate with the government'' because the buyers were concerned about whether a corruption investigation he was involved in could damage the company. PAGE A15
 TWO CASES ON POLICE PROCEDURE
 The Supreme Court heard two cases involving the Fourth Amendment. In one case, a man's arrest came as a result of false information from the computer files of the police in a neighboring county. In the other, cocaine was found in a man's car after he was arrested and locked in the back of a police squad car. The central question in both cases is the same: does the rule that requires the suppression of some evidence produced by police misconduct still make sense? PAGE A15
 NEW WARNINGS ON COUGH MEDICINE
 Companies that make pediatric cough and cold medicines said they would voluntarily change their products' labels to say that they should not be given to children younger than four and that products with certain antihistamines would have added language warning parents not to use them to sedate a child or make a child feel sleepy. The Food and Drug Administration said it supported the label changes and would continue assessing the safety and effectiveness of the products in children of all ages. PAGE A14
 COPING WITH A FAMILY'S SLAYING
 News of a murder-suicide in Los Angeles that ended with six relatives dead spread through the tight-knit Indian-American community in which they lived. The police said that the reported killer, Karthick Rajaram, confessed in two letters, one addressed to the police and one to two friends. ''I can't tell you how I feel,'' a family friend said. ''You have to open my heart and see the feeling.'' PAGE A15
 Business
 ICELAND ASKS RUSSIA FOR AID
 As Its Economy Stumbles
 Iceland's banks, once robust, are suddenly wobbly, and the government, facing what it called ''national bankruptcy,'' took extraordinary measures by taking control of the country's second-largest bank -- its second takeover in two weeks. The government also announced that it had asked Russia for a loan of 4 billion euros, about $5.5 billion, to keep its economy afloat. PAGE B1 
 A.I.G.'S SPENDING HABITS
 On a second day of Congressional hearings in Washington, lawmakers were informed of the spending habits at the American International Group. Only a week after the insurance giant received an $85 billion federal bailout, one of its subsidiaries held a retreat for its top sales agents at an exclusive beach resort where expenses totaled $442,000 for one week. PAGE B1 
 FORMER UBS EXECUTIVE SETTLES
 David Aufhauser, above, the former general counsel at UBS's investment bank, reached a $6.5 million settlement with the New York attorney general on accusations of insider trading in auction-rate securities. Andrew Cuomo, New York's attorney general, said his office was expanding its investigation into financial derivatives beyond auction-rate securities. PAGE B6 
 PFIZER ACCUSED OF SPINNING DATA
 Experts who reviewed thousands of documents from Pfizer said the drug maker manipulated the way scientific studies were published to help sales of Neurontin, its epilepsy drug, to treat other disorders. PAGE B4
 New York
 TREMORS ON WALL STREET
 Leave Harlem Shaken
 Harlem's recent resurgence was driven in part by the banks and Wall Street firms that gave business loans as well as loans for large commercial developments. The collapse of some of those financial institutions means that Harlem's growth will become much more difficult -- and also that the neighborhood will lose millions of dollars in charitable contributions from those companies. PAGE A21 
 CRANE COMPANY ACCUSED OF BRIBES
 In indictments unsealed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, prosecutors said that New York City's chief crane inspector conspired for more than a decade with a Long Island-based crane company to ensure that its cranes were certified without receiving valid inspections and that its crane operators had an easy time acquiring licenses. The indictments followed two crane collapses. PAGE A22 
 Arts
 TINA BROWN, EDITOR OF NOTE, 
 Newly Perched on the Web
 A new Web site had its debut this week, thedailybeast.com. But with more than 180 million of the things now online by some estimates, a new one would seem like just another digital drop in an ocean of zeroes and ones. Unless it's Tina Brown doing the dropping. Promising rigorous editing of the culture for complicated times, the Beast is aiming to be a smaller, less chaotic version of the World Wide Web itself, David Carr writes. PAGE C1
 GUNS 'N' POSES: THUGS IN LONDON
 Guy Ritchie reshuffles a worn-out deck in ''RocknRolla,'' a return to the shady stylings that characterized his earlier flicks, ''Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels'' and ''Snatch.'' There are the usual villains, double-crosses, right hooks, ha-ha scenes of grim torture and the requisite femme fatale. But there isn't much to chew on or mull over. The violence has no passion, no oomph, no sense of real or even feigned purpose, Manohla Dargis writes. PAGE C1
 NEW TAKES ON OLD THEMES
 ''The Wrestler,'' which closes the New York Film Festival, was directed by Darren Aronofsky and stars Michael O'Rourke whose simple and cartoonish character might be described as the Rocky Balboa of professional wrestling. But unlike the ''Rocky'' films, ''The Wrestler'' is largely free of pandering sentimentality and phony optimism, and acknowledges that bodies get old and break down despite the most rigorous training, Stephen Holden writes. PAGE C1
 In a Galaxy Far Away C3
 Dining Out
 UNITING AROUND FOOD
 To Save an Ailing Town
 The tiny town of Hardwick, Vt., (pop. 3,000) used to be such a den of vice that it went by the name Little Chicago, and its Main Street was dotted with vacant stores. Internet pioneers, artisans and agricultural entrepreneurs are trying to find investors and betting that farming can save their hardscrabble hamlet. PAGE D1
 A LOOPHOLE IN LABELING LAWS
 A law has gone into effect that requires retailers to label the country of origin of certain food products. The aim is to allow consumers to avoid products from countries like China, where food safety has been a problem. But critics point to a loophole and a lack of resources for enforcement that they say may make the mandate ineffective. PAGE D3
 Eric Asimov: Alsace Wine D5
 Sports
 NO LONGER ON THE SIDELINES, 
 But Still Coaching
 Joe Paterno, 81, the longtime football coach at Penn State, has long faced questions about when he may retire. They have gotten louder as he has been hampered by a leg injury and has spent more time coaching games from the press box. But Paterno plays down the significance of being on the sidelines. ''Actually, as far as making a significant contribution on the strategy side and on the tactical side, you're better off upstairs,'' he said. PAGE B20
 PLAYERS TACKLE CHILDHOOD OBESITY
 The N.F.L., with all its beefy linemen on the far side of 300 pounds, would seem an unlikely standard-bearer in the fight against childhood obesity. But experts say athletes present powerful body image role models, particularly for boys. And so players have rebuilt parks and conducted football clinics in support of Play 60, an effort to encourage children to be active for at least an hour a day. Page B22 
 AFTER STORM, TULANE BOUNCES BACK
 Tulane University's athletic department almost did not survive after the campus and its sports facilities were ravaged by Hurricane Katrina. But the disaster galvanized the student body, and its community was unified around the teams. ''I think in a lot of ways, Katrina might have helped because it told people New Orleans is worth caring about,'' said the president of the university's booster club. PAGE B20 
 WINNING WITH A YOUNG FOUNDATION
 If the Red Sox beat the Tampa Bay Rays to advance to the World Series and win their second championship in two years, it will be in large measure because of some shrewd moves by the team's front office as well and the performance of some of its young, home-grown players. ''They prepared us for what the Red Sox are and what the Red Sox want to be,'' said Dustin Pedroia, the team's young second baseman. ''It's winning.'' PAGE B19 
 Obituaries
 CHARLES WRIGHT, 76
 His three books describe a loner's life on the fringes of New York society, and his protagonists are stand-ins for himself, working at low-level jobs, living in low-rent apartments, hanging out with low-life personalities. ''The Messenger'' was the best received of the three, possibly because it was less specifically about being black than about being an outsider. PAGE B16
 RUEDI RYMANN, 75
 He was a master yodeler, and a song of his, ''Dr Schacher Seppli,'' was called by a Swiss television series the greatest Swiss hit of all. PAGE B16
 Editorial
 ATTACK POLITICS
 John McCain and Barack Obama have their second presidential debate, after Mr. McCain embarked on one of the ugliest campaigns in memory. PAGE A30 
 THE STATES NEED HELP
 Wall Street's crisis is walloping state finances across the country. State government debt is about the safest debt on the market. Still, over the last few weeks, states have been shut out of the credit markets like everybody else. PAGE A30 
 LESS TO WORRY ABOUT
 In 1982, Congress asked the Army Corps of Engineers to study the feasibility of pumping water from the Great Lakes to arid parts of the Midwest. That terrible idea went nowhere, but ever since, the states that border the lakes have lived in fear that somebody would steal or buy their water. Those worries are over. PAGE A30 
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 During the vice-presidential debate, Gov. Sarah Palin said that paying taxes was not considered patriotic in middle-class America. What an awful statement. PAGE A31 
 THIRD TIME'S THE HARM
 Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York is making a mistake by trying to push through legislation to alter term limits to enable him to run for a third term, Randy M. Mastro, a former New York City deputy mayor, argues in an Op-Ed article. PAGE A31 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); BIOMASS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MARTIAL ARTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (86%); MARRIAGE (86%); GAYS & LESBIANS (83%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MEN (78%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); MAMMALS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); FOOD PRICES (70%); WILD CATS (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); HOMICIDE (65%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); NEWS REPORTING (63%); MARRIAGE LAW (62%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (62%); CORRUPTION (60%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (69%); ROBERT M GATES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); YANGTZE RIVER (79%); SOUTH CHINA (56%) SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALBANIA (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



306 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Says Biofuel Subsidies Raise Food Bill and Hunger

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
A United Nations food agency called on Tuesday for a review of biofuel subsidies and policies, noting that they had contributed significantly to rising food prices and the hunger in poor countries. 
 With policies and subsidies to encourage biofuel production in place in much of the developed world, farmers often find it more profitable to plants crops for fuel than for food, a shift that has helped lead to global food shortages. 
 Current policies should be ''urgently reviewed in order to preserve the goal of world food security, protect poor farmers, promote broad-based rural development and ensure environmental sustainability,'' said a report released here on Tuesday by Jacques Diouf, the executive director of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. 
 In releasing the report, the United Nations joined a number of environmental groups and prominent international specialists who have called for an end to -- or at least an overhaul of -- subsidies for biofuels, which are cleaner, plant-based fuels that can sometimes be substituted for oil and gas.
 In a devastating assessment released this summer, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development concluded that government support of biofuel production in member countries was hugely expensive and that it ''had a limited impact on reducing greenhouse gases and improving energy security.'' It did have ''a significant impact on world crop prices'' by helping to raise them. 
 ''National governments should cease to create new mandates for biofuels and investigate ways to phase them out,'' the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development concluded in its report. The organization includes European countries, the United States, Canada, Japan and Australia.
 Still, Willy de Greef, secretary general of EuropaBio, a biotechnology industry group, said the world possessed the land and agricultural ability to produce enough food and fuel through subsidy programs. 
 ''Of course these policies have to be developed with high quality sustainability criteria,'' he said. But he added that that should include consideration of the fact that biofuels could help reduce poverty. ''The development of biofuels will in fact create new revenue options for farmers all over the world, including poor farmers,'' he said. 
 In the past eight years, as oil prices and concerns about carbon emissions have increased, a number of countries, including the United States, and the European Union have put into place subsidies and incentives to energize the fledgling biofuel industry.
 As a result, the production of biofuels made from crops that could also be used for food increased more than threefold from 2000 to 2007, the Food and Agriculture Organization said. Support to encourage biofuel production in Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries amounted to more than $10 billion in 2006, the organization said. 
 But a host of studies in the past year concluded that the rush to biofuels had some disastrous, if unintended, consequences for food security and the environment. Less food is available to eat in poor countries, global grain prices have skyrocketed and precious forests have been lost as farmers have created fields to join the biofuel boom, the studies said. 
 Worse still, specialists say, so much energy is required to convert many plants into fuel that the process does not result in a savings of carbon emissions. The O.E.C.D.'s report said only two food-based fuels were clearly environmentally better than fossil fuels when considering the entire ''life cycle'' of their production: used cooking oil and sugar cane from Brazil. Sugar cane is far easier to convert to biofuel than most other crops. 
 Already this year, the European Union has stepped back from its target of having 10 percent of Europe's fuel for transportation come from biofuel or other renewable fuels by 2020. 
 Last month, the European Parliament suggested that only 5 percent come from renewable sources by 2015, and that 20 percent come from new alternatives ''that do not compete with food production.'' 
 Mr. Diouf of the Food and Agriculture Organization stopped short on Tuesday of suggesting that the world end biofuel subsidies. Rather, he said they should be revised to direct the benefits to developing nations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (93%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); BIOMASS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EMISSIONS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (56%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



307 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Britain Considers a Plan to Help Its Banks

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
As the British government considered a plan Tuesday to calm the markets, the country's largest banks have become increasingly frustrated with the lack of a clear policy approach. 
 Amid speculation that the government was preparing a plan to recapitalize the country's top banks -- Barclays, Lloyds TSB and the Royal Bank of Scotland -- investors continued to punish their shares on Tuesday. Shares of the Royal Bank of Scotland were down 25 percent, Lloyds TSB almost 14 percent and Barclays 6 percent, reflecting the fear that a government capital injection would dilute existing shareholders. 
 The chief executives of the three banks gathered Monday night at 10 Downing Street and pressed Chancellor Alistair Darling to move quickly on a program. 
 One person briefed on the discussions described the demeanor of the bank executives as being impatient. ''If you are going to do something, do it quickly,'' this person said in presenting the banks' view. No details were given about the possible terms or amount of a recapitalization, this person said, though any such plan would probably dilute existing shareholders
 The British Treasury has considered a recapitalization plan for weeks that would inject money -- perhaps as much as $:50 billion, according to some reports -- into the top banks as a means to bolster capital levels that most analysts and investors feel are insufficient.
 ''There is no such thing as a safe bank now,'' said Willem Buiter, a political economist at the London School of Economics. ''They are only as safe as the authorities make them.'' 
 Barclays, fresh off its acquisition of Lehman Brothers investment banking business, denied reports that it had asked the government for capital. ''Barclays has not requested capital from the government and has no reason to do so,'' the chief executive, John S. Varley, said at an investor conference on Tuesday.
 Britain's big banks have long argued that their recent capital injections and their broad deposit bases would insulate them from the need for government aid. But with policy makers in the United States having finally taken action and European governments also moving to address bank solvency fears, the British government's delay in articulating a broad strategy -- be it a guarantee of deposits or a recapitalization plan -- has heightened investor concern about the financial stability of the banks. 
 In particular, analysts have begun to point out that even large deposit-based banks like Barclays and RBS still depend on short-term money markets to meet some financing obligations. Earlier this month, analysts at the securities firm Cazenove, published a table that showed which European financial institutions were most reliant on hard-to-get short-term financing. Both Barclays and the Royal Bank of Scotland were in the upper third with 32 percent and 33 percent, of their outstanding debt securities maturing in 2008 and 2009. In normal times, such a ratio would not be of concern. Now, however, such a reliance on short-term debt is often seen as a sign of vulnerability.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (94%); BARCLAYS PLC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (94%); RBS (LSE) (94%); RBS (AMS) (94%); BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN VARLEY (56%); ALISTAIR DARLING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



308 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Iceland, in a Precarious Position, Takes Drastic Steps to Right Itself

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER and JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
REYKJAVIK, Iceland -- The government of Iceland took extraordinary measures on Tuesday to stave off ''national bankruptcy,'' as the credit crisis tightened its grip on this remote island nation in the North Atlantic.
Iceland's banks had propelled years of significant growth, lending so freely that their assets ballooned to many times the size of the country's economy. But now the boom has turned to a bust.
In an effort to avoid financial collapse, the government took control on Tuesday of the country's second-largest bank -- its second takeover in two weeks. And, in a measure more characteristic of troubled developing economies than one of the wealthiest in the world, Iceland's central bank pegged the currency to a basket of others. 
Most surprising, the government announced that it had asked Russia for a loan of 4 billion euros, about $5.5 billion, to try to keep the economy afloat.
Iceland is uniquely exposed to the global economy. Although it has a population of about 300,000 -- smaller than that of Wichita, Kan., or Tampa, Fla. -- it has played an outsize role in global trade. The country is highly leveraged in international financial markets, and the total assets of its banks grew to nine times as large as its gross domestic product at the end of 2006, from 96 percent of its G.D.P. at the end of 2000. Some estimates place the current size of the banking sector at more than 10 times as large as the G.D.P.
And Icelandic companies had been aggressively expanding in Northern Europe and across the Atlantic. The Baugur Group, an Icelandic investment company, for instance, owns the House of Fraser department store chain in Britain, as well as a stake in Saks Fifth Avenue. Another Icelandic company, the FL Group, now called Stodir, has investments in the parent of American Airlines.
The boom in the financial sector was a relatively recent phenomenon. The Iceland Stock Exchange was created only in 1985; trading in shares began several years later. Though Iceland has one of the highest per capita incomes in the world, not long ago its economy was rooted in basic industries like fishing.
To stanch the current crisis, the government said it had secured the backing for a loan from Moscow. But Russian officials told Interfax that no decision had been made. Iceland later acknowledged that its announcement had been premature.
The confusion over the status of any loan added to the sense of bewilderment here over the speed with which the financial situation went from bad to worse.
''We are still in the midst of events unfolding, and it's impossible to see where it's going to end up,'' said Bjorn Gudmundsson, head of research at Landsbanki, the second-largest bank in Iceland, after Kaupthing Bank.
Landsbanki was nationalized on Tuesday under new powers rushed into effect by the government. At the end of last month, the government took control of Glitnir, another lender.
''We were faced with the real possibility that the national economy would be sucked into the global banking swell and end in national bankruptcy,'' Prime Minister Geir H. Haarde said late Monday.
Concerns about the government's ability to support the banking sector have put the currency into a tailspin. The fall in the krona has pushed inflation into double digits, requiring the central bank to raise its benchmark interest rate to more than 15 percent.
Mr. Gudmundsson said new financing, like the proposed loan from Russia, was essential to help the central bank keep the currency from sliding further; it fell more than 30 percent against the dollar in the last month.
The central bank said that it had asked Russia about the loan ''some months ago'' but that the situation with the country's banks and economy deteriorated so rapidly over the last two days that a loan agreement became urgently needed.
It said that Russia -- home to branches of Icelandic banks -- would grant the loan for the next three to four years with an interest rate of up to half of a percentage point above the interbank lending rate.
For Russia, a loan would be a way to show its financial power and willingness to help distressed economies.
''It's a P.R. stunt to reassert Russia's position in the global economy of the 21st century,'' said James Beadle, a fund manager at Pilgrim Asset Management in Moscow. ''But Russia also has a lot of cash it can't use domestically because of the inflation problem.''
In Reykjavik, the government reiterated that all deposits in its banks were guaranteed. But the crisis could reverberate in foreign markets where Icelandic banks have set up branches, luring customers with attractive savings rates.
Customers of Icesave bank in Britain, controlled by Landsbanki, were not able to access their money on Tuesday. A note on the bank's Web site did not give any further information.
In the meantime, the deposit compensation unit of the Financial Services Authority in Britain was readying on Tuesday application forms for Icesave's 300,000 British customers, who have an estimated $:2.5 billion in deposits with the bank. Icesave provides only an Internet-based service in Britain; its depositors are partly covered by Britain's deposit insurance system.
Customers will probably have to wait a couple of weeks to receive their savings, up to $:50,000, a spokesman at the deposit unit said. Britain recently increased the level of guaranteed deposits to $:50,000.
But in Reykjavic, the government guarantee seems to have reassured many Icelanders about the safety of their money. There were no signs of lines at banks for withdrawals.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Geir H. Haarde, the prime minister of Iceland, said Tuesday that the country's central bank had pegged its slipping currency to an index of others.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYNJAR GAUTI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(B1)
Landsbanki, the second-largest bank in Iceland, was nationalized on Tuesday, part of an effort to stabilize the economy.
 Headquarters of Kaupthing, the country's largest bank.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARA KRISTINSDOTTIR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TAKEOVERS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); EURO (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); RETAILERS (63%)

COMPANY: BAUGUR GROUP HF (66%); ARION BANK HF (58%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); HOUSE OF FRASER LTD (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); NAICS522294 SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (66%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); WICHITA, KS, USA (75%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) ICELAND (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



309 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Council Clears Way for $700 Million Complex in Harlem

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Despite the weak economy and turmoil on Wall Street, a $700 million project intended to transform three parcels in East Harlem into a media, entertainment and housing complex is moving forward, city officials and real estate executives said on Tuesday.
 The 1.7-million-square-foot project includes office and retail space, a small hotel, a cultural center, open space and 800 apartments, 600 of which will be set aside for families with low and moderate incomes. Officials say it will complement recent retail and commercial developments on 125th Street, Harlem's main boulevard. 
 The city, working with community groups, recently selected the development team, a mix of national developers and local groups. On Tuesday, the City Council approved new zoning for the three largely vacant parcels, which sit between 125th and 127th Streets, from Second to Third Avenues. The city controls 82 percent of the land and is negotiating with private owners for the rest.
 ''The development of the East Harlem Media, Entertainment and Cultural Center will help cement 125th Street's legacy as Harlem's main street and the cultural retail hub of Upper Manhattan,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in a prepared statement.
 After local opposition defeated an earlier city proposal for the parcels, the administration began working with politicians and community groups to outline a project that would be economically viable and address the requests of the neighborhood for cultural space, housing and subsidized storefronts for local entrepreneurs. Seven groups competed for the project. 
 ''This is a model for how planning and economic development should be done in the future,'' said City Councilwoman Melissa Mark-Viverito, whose district includes East Harlem. ''We have produced a project that is in tune with the community.''
 The selected development team includes Archstone-Smith, General Growth Properties, the Richman Group, the Carey Group, Monadnock Construction, and two local partners, Hope Community and El Barrio's Operation Fightback. The team is required to break ground on the first phase of the project next year. Although new projects are thriving on 125th Street and work is progressing at the nearby East River Plaza, which will house several large national retailers, the economic environment is proving difficult for many builders.
 Al Neely, the managing partner of the development team, said that the group saw a great opportunity in East Harlem. ''The phased project, with a coordinated mix of uses, is planned to build off of the strength of the area,'' he said. ''We have a lot of hard work before us, and at the time the project is ready to move into construction we are confident economic conditions will be optimal.''
 Earlier this year, Vornado Realty Trust announced plans for a new office tower farther west on 125th Street that would house Major League Baseball's cable network. But the project is now on hold, city officials and real estate executives said, because Vornado was unable to secure additional tenants and financing. In general, lenders have become unwilling to finance most real estate projects because of the crisis in the credit markets. 
 Deputy Mayor Robert C. Lieber said he hoped that the ''gridlock'' in the financial markets will loosen up in the coming months. ''We want to make sure we're in a position to get these things done,'' Mr. Lieber said. ''We set some milestones for the development team. We're hopeful that the economics of this project can still work because this community is in such dire need of affordable housing and new retail.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rendering of a housing and cultural center in East Harlem.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COOPER CARRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ZONING (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MAYORS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); BASEBALL (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (60%); MEDIA ENTERTAINMENT (55%); GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (53%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (60%); GGP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (53%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



310 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: European Disunion: Facing a Financial Crisis, Nations Put Self-Interest First

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH and GRAHAM BOWLEY; Nicholas Kulish reported from Berlin, and Graham Bowley from New York. Carter Dougherty contributed reporting from Luxembourg, and Stephen Castle from Brussels.

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The global financial crisis has tested more than lending institutions, stock markets and the nerves of investors everywhere. It has put the bold notion of European unity under the microscope again, where critics say it once more has been found wanting.
 Half a century ago, the European Union was born on the ideal of close cooperation between countries torn by war. Since the formal adoption of a common currency, the euro, European leaders have pledged tight coordination of financial policies and promoted new steps toward political integration as well. 
 Speaking on Saturday of how to manage the financial storm, the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, declared, ''What is of the essence is that Europe should exist and respond with one voice.''
 But over the past week as the crisis has radiated around the globe, some of the 27 nations that make up the European Union have broken ranks, opting in ugly disarray for self-interested policies to protect their own citizens and banks first. 
 At a time when the scale of events would seem to call for concerted action, critics say, the stock and credit market upheavals have elicited raw emotions and reflexive, unilateral actions. After a week of squabbling and rushed meetings, finance ministers agreed Tuesday to take a few modest steps to shore up markets. But they did little to dispel growing doubts that the European Union could grapple collectively with a common crisis.
 ''This is unprecedented,'' said Simon Tilford, chief economist of the Center for European Reform, a research organization in London. ''It has exposed the limits of European integration and coordination when presented with a crisis of this magnitude.'' 
 Defenders of the European Union were quick to point out that its system, which lacks a central finance ministry comparable to the Treasury Department in the United States, was not designed for this kind of crisis.
 And quietly, they point out that the Treasury Department did not prevent the United States from creating the mortgage mess; nor did Congress, speaking a single language on behalf of a single nation, have such an easy time finding consensus on a response.
 ''Political will is always in short supply when there's no risk,'' said Jan Techau, director of the Europe program at the German Council on Foreign Relations, who said he was often skeptical of the European Union, but understanding of its present struggles. ''You can either say, see how long it took them, look at how impotent they are, or you can say, when push comes to shove, they can really act. You can look at it positively or negatively.''
 The meeting of member countries' finance ministers on Tuesday illustrated the virtues and the flaws of the union. The ministers managed to more than double the minimum level of guarantees for bank deposits in member countries, to around $67,500, but that was less than half what some member states had asked for. 
 ''They haven't drawn the line in the sand yet,'' said Irwin Collier, professor of economics at the Free University in Berlin. He added: ''They established a minimum, and you can hear the sound of one hand clapping for that measure. It's very modest.''
 The disarray has raised painful memories of Ireland's single-handed rejection of the European Union's Lisbon Treaty in June, dealing a serious blow to the bloc's efforts to streamline decision making and increase its political clout. It also comes five years after the start of the United States-led war in Iraq in 2003, which exposed deep fissures among European countries. Two months ago, Russia's invasion of Georgia showed that many of those same differences, particularly between countries like Germany and the more recent member states of Eastern Europe, still remained. 
 European countries struggled to agree to a joint response to the Georgia crisis, although agree they ultimately did. ''The E.U. was utterly divided over Russia,'' said Mark Leonard, executive director of the European Council on Foreign Relations and author of ''Why Europe Will Run the 21st Century.'' ''But given that, it did better than anyone expected.''
 Beating low expectations is not the same as living up to its purpose. ''The divisions mean that the E.U. is definitely punching below its weight,'' Mr. Leonard said, pointing to its much larger population, higher combined military spending and an economy that dwarfs Russia's.
 In the caldron of the global financial crisis, Ireland was the first to break ranks, acting unilaterally on Sept. 30 to guarantee the deposits and debts of its six largest financial institutions, a go-it-alone approach that was denounced by its neighbors and regulators in Brussels. They feared that savers across the Continent might flee their domestic banks in a destabilizing rush for the government-backed safety of Irish banks. 
 Even before a weekend emergency meeting in Paris of the union's four biggest economies -- Germany, France, Italy and Britain -- German officials had rejected a proposal floated by the French for a common European bailout fund along the lines of the United States plan devised by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 In Berlin, where the financial crisis has emboldened criticism of the no-holds-barred, Anglo-Saxon capitalist model, officials argued that Germany, traditionally the European Union's largest financial contributor, should not pay for a problem that began elsewhere. 
 Then on Sunday, Germany unilaterally promised to guarantee all retail deposits in its own banking system to calm the country's skittish savers. ''Trust, the most important currency for financial markets, has been lost,'' Chancellor Angela Merkel said Tuesday. 
 In Brussels, the atmosphere is fraught over the national disarray on the financial crisis, but also with a sense that the criticism is unfair. Without a unionwide banking regulatory system or fiscal policy, any reaction to the crisis was inevitably going to be national in character. 
 And that, proponents say, only underlines the need for greater integration and regulation and the creation of some kind of pan-European fiscal architecture. 
 ''I believe events have shown that no country is immune from this crisis,'' said Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, on Tuesday. ''I hope that persuades the most skeptical people of the benefits of joint E.U. action.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



311 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Uniting Around Food to Save an Ailing Town

BYLINE: By MARIAN BURROS

DATELINE: HARDWICK, Vt. 

 BODY:
 THIS town's granite companies shut down years ago and even the rowdy bars and porno theater that once inspired the nickname ''Little Chicago'' have gone.
 Facing a Main Street dotted with vacant stores, residents of this hardscrabble community of 3,000 are reaching into its past to secure its future, betting on farming to make Hardwick the town that was saved by food. 
 With the fervor of Internet pioneers, young artisans and agricultural entrepreneurs are expanding aggressively, reaching out to investors and working together to create a collective strength never before seen in this seedbed of Yankee individualism.
 Rob Lewis, the town manager, said these enterprises have added 75 to 100 jobs to the area in the past few years. 
 Rian Fried, an owner of Clean Yield Asset Management in nearby Greensboro, which has invested with local agricultural entrepreneurs, said he's never seen such cooperative effort.
 ''Across the country a lot of people are doing it individually but it's rare when you see the kind of collective they are pursuing,'' said Mr. Fried, whose firm considers social and environmental issues when investing. ''The bottom line is they are providing jobs and making it possible for others to have their own business.''
 In January, Andrew Meyer's company, Vermont Soy, was selling tofu from locally grown beans to five customers; today he has 350. Jasper Hill Farm has built a $3.2-million aging cave to finish not only its own cheeses but also those from other cheesemakers. 
 Pete Johnson, owner of Pete's Greens, is working with 30 local farmers to market their goods in an evolving community supported agriculture program. 
 ''We have something unique here: a strong sense of community, connections to the working landscape and a great work ethic,'' said Mr. Meyer, who was instrumental in moving many of these efforts forward. 
 He helped start the Center for an Agricultural Economy, a nonprofit operation that is planning an industrial park for agricultural businesses.
 Next year the Vermont Food Venture Center, where producers can rent kitchen space and get business advice for adding value to raw ingredients, is moving to Hardwick from Fairfax, 40 miles west, because, Mr. Meyer said, ''it sees the benefit of being part of the healthy food system.'' He expects it to assist 15 to 20 entrepreneurs next year.
 ''All of us have realized that by working together we will be more successful as businesses,'' said Tom Stearns, owner of High Mowing Organic Seeds. ''At the same time we will advance our mission to help rebuild the food system, conserve farmland and make it economically viable to farm in a sustainable way.''
 Cooperation takes many forms. Vermont Soy stores and cleans its beans at High Mowing, which also lends tractors to High Fields, a local compositing company. Byproducts of High Mowing's operation -- pumpkins and squash that have been smashed to extract seeds -- are now being purchased by Pete's Greens and turned into soup. Along with 40,000 pounds of squash and pumpkin, Pete's bought 2,000 pounds of High Mowing's cucumbers this year and turned them into pickles
 For the past two years, many of these farmers and businessmen have met informally once a month to share experiences for business planning and marketing or pass on information about, say, a graphic designer who did good work on promotional materials or government officials who've been particularly helpful. They promote one another's products at trade fairs and buy equipment at auctions that they know their colleagues need. 
 More important, they share capital. They've lent each other about $300,000 in short-term loans. When investors visited Mr. Stearns over the summer, he took them on a tour of his neighbors' farms and businesses.
 To expand these enterprises further, the Center for an Agricultural Economy recently bought a 15-acre property to start a center for agricultural education. There will also be a year-round farmers' market (from what began about 20 years ago as one farmer selling from the trunk of his car on Main Street) and a community garden, which started with one plot and now has 22, with a greenhouse and a paid gardening specialist. 
 Last month the center signed an agreement with the University of Vermont for faculty and students to work with farmers and food producers on marketing, research, even transportation problems. Already, Mr. Meyer has licensed a university patent to make his Vermont Natural Coatings, an environmentally friendly wood finish, from whey, a byproduct of cheesemaking.
 These entrepreneurs, mostly well educated children of baby boomers who have added business acumen to the idealism of the area's long established hippies and homesteaders, are in the right place at the right time. The growing local-food movement, with its concerns about energy usage, food safety and support for neighbors, was already strong in Vermont, a state that the National Organic Farmers' Association said had more certified organic acreage per capita than any other.
 Mr. Meyer grew up on a dairy farm in Hardwick and worked in Washington as an agricultural aide to former Senator Jim Jeffords of Vermont. ''From my time in Washington,'' Mr. Meyer said, ''I recognize that if Vermont is going to have a future in agriculture we need to look at what works in Vermont, and that is not commodity agriculture.''
 The brothers Mateo and Andy Kehler have found something that works quite well at their Jasper Hill Farm in nearby Greensboro. At first they aged their award-winning cheeses in a basement. Then they began aging for other cheesemakers. Earlier this month they opened their new caves, with space for 2 million pounds of cheese, which they buy young from other producers. 
 The Vermont Institute for Artisan Cheese at the University of Vermont is helping producers develop safety and quality programs, with costs split by Jasper Hill and the producers. ''Suddenly being a cheesemaker in Vermont becomes viable,'' Mateo Kehler said.
 Pete Johnson began a garden when he was a boy on his family's land. Now his company, Pete's Greens, grows organic crops on 50 acres in Craftsbury, about 10 miles north of here. He has four moveable greenhouses, extending the growing season to nine months, and he has installed a commercial kitchen that can make everything from frozen prepared foods and soup stocks to baked goods and sausages. In addition he has enlarged the concept of the C.S.A. by including 30 farmers and food producers rather than just a single farm. 
 ''We have 200 C.S.A. participants so we've become a fairly substantial customer of some of these businesses,'' he said. ''The local beef supplier got an order for $700 this week; that's pretty significant around here. We've encouraged the apple producer who makes apple pies to use local flour, local butter, local eggs, maple sugar as well as the apples so now we have a locavore apple pie.''
 ''Twelve years ago the market for local food was lukewarm,'' Mr. Johnson added. ''Now this state is primed for anything that is local. It's a way to preserve our villages and rebuild them.''
 Like Mr. Johnson, Mr. Stearns of High Mowing Organic Seeds in Wolcott, who is president of the Center, knew he wanted to get into agriculture when he was a boy. His company, which grew from his hobby of collecting seeds, began in 2000 with a two-page catalog that generated $36,000 in sales. Today he has a million-dollar business, selling seeds all over the United States. 
 Woody Tasch, chairman of Investors Circle, a nonprofit network of investors and foundations dedicated to sustainability, said: ''What the Hardwick guys are doing is the first wave of what could be a major social transformation, the swinging back of the pendulum from industrialization and globalization.'' 
 Mr. Tasch is having a meeting in nearby Grafton next month with investors, entrepreneurs, nonprofit groups, philanthropists and officials to discuss investing in Vermont agriculture.
 Here in Hardwick, Claire's restaurant, sort of a clubhouse for farmers, began with investments from its neighbors. It is a Community Supported Restaurant. Fifty investors who put in $1,000 each will have the money repaid through discounted meals at the restaurant over four years.
 ''Local ingredients, open to the world,'' is the motto on restaurant's floor-to-ceiling windows. ''There's Charlie who made the bread tonight,'' Kristina Michelsen, one of four partners, said in a running commentary one night, identifying farmers and producers at various tables. ''That's Pete from Pete's Greens. You're eating his tomatoes.''
 Rosy as it all seems, some worry that as businesses grow larger the owners will be tempted to sell out to companies that would not have Hardwick's best interests at heart. 
 But the participants have reason to be optimistic: Mr. Stearns said that within one week six businesses wanted to meet with him to talk about moving to the Hardwick area.
 ''Things that seemed totally impossible not so long ago are now going to happen,'' said Mr. Kehler. ''In the next few years a new wave of businesses will come in behind us. So many things are possible with collaboration.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COLLABORATORS: Pete Johnson and other farmers in northeast Vermont support one another's efforts to stay viable.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL O. BOISVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CONNECTED THROUGH FOOD: Clockwise from top left: Tomato tasters at High Mowing Organic Seeds
a street in Hardwick, Vt.
Kristina Michelsen, a partner in Claire's Restaurant
Andrew Meyer of Vermont Soy
organic cabbage
the cheese cave at Jasper Hill Farm.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, CALEB KENNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OTHER PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL O. BOISVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ETHICAL INVESTING (76%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CHEESE (71%); CHEESE MFG (69%); ETHICS (66%)

COMPANY: CLEAN YIELD ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



312 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street's Tremors Leave Harlem Shaken

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
Before its economic turnaround in recent years, Harlem was a case study in disinvestment. 
 Banks were unwilling to make mortgage loans or to open branches, national chain stores could not be lured uptown, city services lagged and the neighborhood became economically isolated from the rest of Manhattan. This has given way in the past decade to a resurgence, as national chains like Starbucks and American Apparel have moved to 125th Street and housing prices have steadily risen.
 But the collapse of financial institutions like Washington Mutual Savings Bank, Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers has left Harlem facing a double loss: The disappearance of companies that helped propel the resurgence will not only make it immediately more difficult for business people to get loans and mortgages or for developers to build large commercial projects, but will also lead to the loss of millions of dollars in charitable contributions from those same companies. That will affect everything from children's health and adult literacy to the Apollo Theater's famed amateur night.
 The effect in Harlem of these companies' failure is an example of the long -- and in some cases, unexpected -- reach of Wall Street across the city, even in neighborhoods with high poverty rates, and where relatively few people work as stockbrokers or investment bankers. 
 ''People talk about Wall Street greed, but one of the things many people don't understand is that there are a lot of organizations that have been the recipient of largess from the same Wall Street,'' said Geoffrey Canada, president and chief executive of Harlem Children's Zone, one of the neighborhood's largest private, nonprofit groups. ''Their absence leaves us scrambling to replace what has been a significant amount of support.'' 
 The relationships between Harlem and the companies ranged from the personal -- 240 Lehman Brothers employees helped build a six-unit apartment building and tutored children in mathematics each Saturday -- to the symbolic: Washington Mutual had its name on the marquee of the Apollo as the primary sponsor of amateur night. 
 Then there is the strictly financial: Bear Stearns provided critical funds for the $85 million Harlem Center, a retail and office complex on 125th Street that includes, among other businesses, a Washington Mutual branch. 
 The tight credit market will very likely have other consequences in Harlem as well, observers said, most significantly a slowdown in economic development, which could moderate the neighborhood's rapid gentrification.
 ''One of the factors that led to the changes was high housing prices in the rest of the city, which pushed people who would not have otherwise moved to Harlem into Harlem,'' said Lance Freeman, an urban planning professor at Columbia and the author of ''There Goes the 'Hood,'' a book on gentrification in Harlem and Clinton Hill in Brooklyn. ''So if housing prices in other parts of the city stop rising, that could reverse or stall some aspects of the cycle of change.''
 Much of that change during the past five years has been the result of millions of dollars in private investment, some by Wall Street companies. In recent years, so many banks sprouted up along 125th Street -- more than 15 -- that the city approved a zoning law this year that limits banks there. That legislation will also allow for high-rise office towers and some 2,100 new market-rate condominiums to be built on 125th, Harlem's main artery, effectively transforming the predominantly low-rise avenue.
 Representatives from Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns, Washington Mutual, Merrill Lynch and A.I.G. -- institutions that have foundered in various ways in recent months -- have not returned calls seeking comment or have said it was too early to determine their investment and philanthropic strategies in Harlem. 
 Business owners in the neighborhood, however, are worried. 
 Lloyd Williams, president and chief executive of the Greater Harlem Chamber of Commerce, listed several troubling signs: an already high local unemployment rate is climbing, seasonal jobs with the Postal Service and department stores have not materialized, credit for small businesses has all but dried up, and construction and rehab work on brownstones has slowed considerably.
 The other major concern is the loss of millions of dollars each year in charitable giving from the financial industry to community organizations, including schools and hospitals.
 W. Franc Perry, chairman of Community Board 10, which covers central Harlem, said many of the grants came only after years of putting pressure on the companies. 
 ''We have held these companies' feet to the fire, told them, 'If you want our dollars, you've got to help us out,' and they've been helping,'' Mr. Perry said. ''Now, this is all so new. There are so many unanswered questions, including whether they will continue to invest in Harlem.''
 Among the organizations that have benefited the most in recent years is Harlem Children's Zone, which runs a variety of programs focused on improving the lives of children in the neighborhood. 
 Among its contributors have been A.I.G. and Lehman Brothers, which had pledged $3 million before its collapse last month. The status of the Lehman aid is unclear, but Mr. Canada, the nonprofit group's president, said he might need to cut back.
 The Apollo has been another favored recipient of Wall Street aid. Merrill Lynch underwrote tours for schoolchildren. Nadja Fidelia, a managing director at Lehman Brothers, became a member of the Apollo's board of directors. Lehman had pledged $1 million to the Apollo's education and outreach initiative.
 This year, Washington Mutual became the primary sponsor of the theater's 74-year-old talent contest when it was renamed WaMu's Apollo Amateur Night. An Apollo spokeswoman declined to comment on the bank's sponsorship or the future of the theater's educational programs, which include literacy training and free nights out for poor families. 
 JPMorgan Chase, which bought Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns recently, has been active in Harlem philanthropy. 
 It now inherits a portfolio that includes, among other things, an after-school squash and tutoring program started by Bear Stearns; a pledge by Washington Mutual to establish home loan centers in underserved communities like Harlem; and Washington Mutual's sponsorships of several neighborhood cultural institutions, including the annual Harlem Week celebration and the Dance Theater of Harlem.
 A spokeswoman for JPMorgan Chase would not comment about the bank's plans for the future. 
 The unusual confluence of Harlem and Wall Street might best be represented by a nonprofit lacrosse organization called CityLAX, whose board includes members of Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Bear Stearns.
 Since 2005, the group, heavily supported by financial industry employees who grew up playing the game, has persuaded the city's Department of Education to start lacrosse teams around the city, including in two Harlem public high schools, where most students had never heard of the sport.
 The project is jointly financed: funds for equipment, transportation and playing fields comes from the group, and the coaches are paid by the school system. But since the failures of Lehman, Merrill and Bear, the future of the programs, at A. Philip Randolph Campus High School and Frederick Douglass Academy, are uncertain.
 ''Our work is vulnerable,'' said Mathew J. Levine, president and chief executive of CityLAX. ''A lot of our kids are not the elite athletes in the school, but this is a chance for them to play, so we're pulling kids from the margins who would not necessarily be involved in an organized athletic activity. And we think that's good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Washington Mutual, since seized and sold, became the primary sponsor of amateur night at the Apollo. Its WaMu logo was on the theater's marquee last week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Children in music class at Promise Academy 2, one of the projects of Harlem Children's Zone, which was backed by A.I.G. and Lehman Brothers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANK BRANCHES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (88%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CHARITIES (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); CITIES (72%); HOME PRICES (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); SECURITIES BROKERS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); WRITERS (60%); POVERTY RATES (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



313 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Sweat Equity Put to Use Within Sight of Wall St.

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The first and hardest part was deciding which crop to take to market from the farm in Red Hook, Brooklyn. 
 All arguments were charged with the stainless-steel passion of 15-year-olds.
 ''Corn,'' Narcisso Rosado said.
 ''Raspberry jam,'' said Malcom Walker. 
 ''Mine was the best idea,'' said Aseel Al Waqza. ''Lemon sorrel. A juice drink from it.''
 He paused. ''It just didn't taste that good,'' he said.
 ''In the end, everyone agreed with our idea,'' Nickeisha Hayden said. ''The mint tea.''
 Red Hook, an ancient finger of city waterfront that is lined with the husks of faded industry and old piers, sits two clear miles across New York Harbor from Wall Street. It is another galaxy.
 There, on nearly three acres of asphalt that have been covered with 18 inches of topsoil, the Red Hook Community Farm operates in an economy that rises from the actual, not the imaginary: lettuce, spinach, chard, kale, collard greens, arugula, dandelion, radicchio, Chinese cabbage, tomatoes, peppers, beets, radishes, squash, cucumber, zucchini, and beans and herbs -- oregano, sage, thyme, mint, six different basils. 
 ''And carrots,'' Narcisso said. ''I love to eat them.''
 The ground is worked by a squad of teenagers who come from across Brooklyn, in a program run by Added Value, a nonprofit organization. On Saturdays, they operate a farmers' market, selling produce grown in Red Hook and on other local farms. Brooklyn restaurants buy from the farm.
 This is sweat equity, not the steroid equity across the harbor. 
 About 30 families bring their food waste for the farm's compost heap; an additional 1,000 pounds comes from the four Rice restaurants in Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn, delivered in a van fueled by the restaurants' used vegetable oil. And, says Ian Marvy, one of the founders of Added Value, the farmers may soon get spent grain from Six Forks brewery in Brooklyn, and the crushed grape skins from the Red Hook Brooklyn winery, which recently pressed its first barrels.
 About eight years ago, Mr. Marvy, then working in the Red Hook Youth Court, was walking with a teenager named Timothy. Mr. Marvy plucked a dandelion green from the ground and chewed on it. Timothy was disgusted. 
 ''I started talking about healthy eating,'' Mr. Marvy said. ''He wasn't interested. The nutrition in leafy greens. Didn't care.
 ''Then I asked him to imagine the business that could be made from the produce on a 10-by-10 plot.''
 This grabbed Timothy, whose family was in the heroin trade. By way of example, Mr. Marvy said they could make a tincture from dandelion root, which is sold as a remedy for various ailments. ''It was going then for $9 a bottle,'' Mr. Marvy said. ''We could sell it below the market for $7. The bottle and the dropper would cost $1. So from that 10-by-10 plot, you could make $600, $700. Because of his family's business, he really understood costs and return on investment.
 ''He said, 'Do you have a job for me?' '' No, Mr. Marvy did not. But the question propelled Mr. Marvy and Michael Hurwitz, who also worked in the youth court, toward the creation of Added Value and the farm, which they set up on a little-used asphalt lot owned by the city's parks department. More than 5,000 kids have visited with their classes. About 135 teenagers have steady after-school jobs, receiving monthly stipends that range from $125 to $400 -- and plenty of free vegetables.
 ''It's more than a job,'' said Kimberly Vargas, 19, who has been coming to Red Hook from Crown Heights since she was 15, a trek of an hour by bus and subway. ''It's my go-to place.''
 Ms. Vargas said the farm showed that food did not have to come from some distant, unseen place. And Vanessa Nimblett, 14, said she had come around to the idea of collaboration. ''Doing a bed -- I can do it better with a group,'' she said. ''Weed it, turn it, rake it, seed it.''
 Tariq Alexis, 15, nodded. ''It brought me out of my shell,'' he said.
 Aseel's grandfather, a farmer in Yemen, heard about the honest work being done in a corner of America's biggest city.
 ''He's proud of me, that I found a job like this,'' Aseel said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Malcom Walker at the Red Hook Community Farm in Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESTAURANTS (86%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); FAMILY (72%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (72%); STEROIDS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); NUTRITION (66%); JUVENILE COURTS (64%); HEROIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



314 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: The States Need Help

 BODY:
Wall Street's crisis is walloping state finances across the country. The most urgent problems are in states -- like California -- that rely on short-term financing to help pay their bills until tax revenues start coming in later on in the fiscal year. This is about the safest debt on the market. Still, over the past few weeks, states have been shut out of the credit markets like everybody else. 
 Last week, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California warned that his state could be forced to seek $7 billion in emergency federal loans if the lending markets don't recover their senses quickly. The state treasurer of Massachusetts, Timothy Cahill, has asked the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and the United States Treasury to consider lending to the state on the same emergency terms being offered to the financial sector.
 The problems won't end there. As the economy tips deeper into recession, state tax revenues are expected to plummet. Gov. David Paterson of New York has already proposed $2 billion in immediate spending cuts. Even states that are less dependent on Wall Street than New York will have to figure out how to raise new money or reduce services, just when the public needs more help. This will intensify the economic downturn. 
 A recent report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a think tank, noted that 29 states already have had to cut spending, use reserves or raise new revenues to balance their budgets for the current fiscal year, which started on July 1 in most states. And 15 states already are seeing new budgetary gaps appear. 
 Washington must step up. To start, the federal government must help states like California and Massachusetts get past their short-term liquidity squeezes. Congress also must prepare a new stimulus bill, with bolstered aid for food stamps and assistance to states and cities so they can continue to provide health care and finance construction and other projects that provide jobs.
 In 2003, Washington gave states $20 billion in grants and increased Medicaid contributions to help them dig out of the 2001 recession. We hope this time it will act a lot faster. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); FOOD STAMPS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



315 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Bloomberg Keeps a Casual Eye on the News From Home

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg acted as if he had all the time in the world this week.
 On Sunday, he sampled sausage during a street fair in Berlin before delivering a speech to the European Lung Foundation on anti-smoking initiatives. The next day, he mingled with some of London's business elite before accepting a civic award that dates to 1237 and is rarely bestowed upon Americans.
 After enjoying a traditional English breakfast with Prime Minister Gordon Brown on Tuesday, Mr. Bloomberg conducted an unusually long news conference, solo, in front of 10 Downing Street. Not once did he refer to, as has been his habit in New York, the dwindling number of days -- now at 450 -- left in his second, and legally for now, final term as mayor. 
 ''He came to the home of Big Ben and forgot about his clock,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a business group. Ms. Wylde attended several of Mr. Bloomberg's events in London. 
 Mr. Bloomberg appears to be breezing along, energized yet relaxed, after his momentous announcement last week expressing his hope to change the city's 15-year-old term limits law. Such a change, if approved by the City Council, would allow him and more than 40 other city officials due to leave office in December 2009, to run for re-election.
 Mr. Bloomberg's announcement has touched off a political free-for-all, as council members, unions, business leaders and others have passionately invoked words like ''extenuating circumstances,'' ''power grab'' and ''oligarchy.''
 But it is a chaotic atmosphere that Mr. Bloomberg has been perfectly content to watch from afar.
 ''If I were back there, I can tell you, I wouldn't have been any more or less involved than I am now,'' he said, during his news conference on the global economic crisis. ''Am I involved now? I've read the papers; that's the extent of my involvement. I've got to go and focus on what would get me elected down the road: doing a good job and not getting involved in politics, and not worrying about these kinds of things.''
 Still, in a verbal slip that offered a telling sign of how his mind has already fast-forwarded to a third term, he added: ''I've been very lucky and had the opportunity to lead this city for the last seven years, and I'll be doing everything I can the next seven years, but I'm not going to be focusing on either changing term limits or campaigning until the very end, when you have to do a campaign.''
 The main purpose of Mr. Bloomberg's trip to London was to participate in a round-table discussion on the economy on Monday with his counterpart here, Mayor Boris Johnson, and civic and business leaders. The timing was fortuitous, given the downturn in the European markets. And the news conference afterward -- as well as all of Mr. Bloomberg's public events -- attracted as much media attention as most City Hall news conferences.
 The British Broadcasting Corporation even provided live coverage of Mr. Bloomberg's 25-minute news conference after his meeting Tuesday morning with Mr. Brown. That is unusually long for someone who is not a head of state.
 But Stuart Fraser, the chairman of policy for the City of London Corporation, the capital's financial district, said in an interview on Tuesday that Mr. Bloomberg was revered not just as a mayor but also as a brand-name financial titan.
 ''We talk the same language,'' Mr. Fraser said. ''We understand globalization. It feels comfortable.''
 Mr. Bloomberg was hardly shy about seconding that impression, telling an audience of business and civic leaders: ''There's nobody that understands the private sector, I think, more than I do.''
 No one should have been surprised that Mr. Bloomberg felt so much at ease. He owns a home in one of the city's most fashionable areas, and his two daughters hold British passports, since his ex-wife, Susan, is British. He has often told friends that London is the only place, other than New York, he would like to live.
 He also knows a lot of the key players in power. The prime minister? Why, Mr. Bloomberg entertained Mr. Brown at his Upper East Side town house not long ago. Peter Mandelson, the new business secretary? The two have been friends for 10, 15 years, Mr. Bloomberg said.
 During his visit, Mr. Bloomberg also found time to eat tandoori chicken during a lunch, not far from his home in Cadogan Square, with Robert H. Tuttle, the United States ambassador to the Court of St. James's. He also met privately with David Cameron, the leader of the Conservative Party, and George Osborne, another high-ranking Tory. 
 But none of that seemed to keep Mr. Bloomberg from being aware of exactly what was happening back in New York.
 Though he traveled to Europe with two deputy mayors, Patricia Harris and Kevin Sheekey, he communicated regularly by phone and e-mail with other top aides. Even during a reception after his keynote lecture on the economy in London on Monday, Mr. Bloomberg was spotted intently scrolling through his BlackBerry. He was also reported to be working the phones during a private dinner featuring lamb and spinach.
 It was, all in all, the kind of performance that offered great comfort and familiarity to those in Britain who regularly deal with him.
 ''He feels obligated to come back, and he wants to be there for the recovery,'' Mr. Fraser said. ''This is a mayor who doesn't want to leave this mess on his watch.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael R. Bloomberg's news conference from 10 Downing Street was broadcast on the BBC.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); SMOKING (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); APPROVALS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); GORDON BROWN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



316 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: In This Time of Economic Stress

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''The Crisis Agenda'' (editorial, Oct. 7):
 First, let's make one thing clear: The national debt has already exploded. Out-of-control spending, the Bush tax cuts, the war in Iraq and now the multiple bailouts have wreaked havoc on our national finances. Future generations will be paying higher taxes in return for fewer services from our government. 
 John McCain was absolutely correct when he said ''no matter what,'' the nation has to cut federal spending, and Barack Obama is equally correct when he says that taxes must go up. Now both candidates should validate the accuracies of each other's positions. 
 The financial crisis we are experiencing is not simply a matter of fallout from Wall Street greed, but also a result of misguided and irresponsible fiscal and monetary policy. We had better get our house in order soon, and that means real sacrifice, or this crisis will get much worse.
 Jeffrey B. Diamond Rye Brook, N.Y., Oct. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 You say, ''The big issue for each candidate is ... how the crisis will affect their promises on taxes.'' Then you state that although Barack Obama ''has said that he would raise taxes on the wealthy, starting next year. ... With the economy tanking, however, it's hard to imagine how he could prudently do that.'' But why should the tanking economy make Mr. Obama hesitate?
 I suspect that many sensible Americans will find raising taxes on the wealthy very prudent and easy to imagine: by definition, the wealthy are those most able to support our federal debt load and needed government expenditures. They are generally the ones who have most benefited financially from past federal expenditures on infrastructure and corporate welfare, and from the recent excesses of deregulation. 
 Moreover, they stand to gain the greatest financial return from future investment in our society. Should the rest of us feel sorry for them? Why not raise their taxes immediately?
 Robert J. Gladstone Carlisle, Mass., Oct. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 With this financial crisis reaching a point of virtual meltdown, a lot of thought has been given to the worst economic calamity of the last century -- the Great Depression. But the bigger economic story has been the shift of our economy away from being a largely agrarian-based economy over the last two centuries. 
 In fact, many of our key derivatives markets like the Chicago Board of Trade had originally been built around agriculture. Agriculture was so core to American society that many thinkers once thought farming was key to our democracy. Yet our nation's democracy continued to get stronger even as we grew well beyond our agrarian roots. 
 Today, two other important economic anchors are now being seriously challenged -- the housing and finance sectors -- but we should not panic. We are still the most versatile and dynamic country in the world, and we will also be able to get through this crisis. 
 Michael J. Szanto Chicago, Oct. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 With the credit crisis spreading around the world, it is a mystery to me that this question is never asked: Why didn't the leaders of our government apparently have access to intelligent forecasts from computer models of the economy to predict the crisis years ago and tell them how to prevent it?
 What computer models do is predict the future, and it is clearly the responsibility of the Office of Management and Budget and the Government Accountability Office to provide such results. 
 It is, of course, the responsibility of our leaders to see to it that these agencies understand this responsibility and regularly report their findings to them and to the public.
 But I have no idea whether this sort of thing happens, because such matters are never mentioned in the news or in the debates. Why not?
 Joseph N. Hilton Jekyll Island, Ga., Oct. 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof (''Save the Fat Cats,'' column, Oct. 2) writes that ''Warren Buffett and the late management guru, Peter Drucker,'' have ''argued that C.E.O. salaries should peak at no more than 20 or 25 times those of the average worker.'' What an odd, heretical idea for modern capitalists!
 Behind that idea, there must be another. It went out of economic fashion about 500 years ago, but its ghost may still be haunting us. Ask the old theologians what constituted an unjust interest rate, and they were likely to reply with words akin to the Supreme Court justice's famous imprecise answer to the question, ''What is pornography?'': ''I know it when I see it.''
 Somewhere on the way from that 1-to-25 ratio to the 1-to-344 ratio that was the average last year for C.E.O.'s, there is injustice. 
 In the nonprofit institution that I presided over for 16 years, we kept the ratio at about 1 to 7. We knew when we saw it that a 1-to-100 ratio was unjust to employees and dangerous to our institutional survival. Why are that ethic and that economic prudence radically different for the leaders of profit-making businesses? 
 Maybe the ghost of the just price should be brought back to life. 
 Donald W. Shriver New York, Oct. 2, 2008
 The writer is emeritus president of the Union Theological Seminary.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Full of Doubts, U.S. Shoppers Cut Spending'' (front page, Oct. 6):
 You quote Bo Andersen, the president and chief executive of the Entertainment Merchants Association, as saying people ''need entertainment'' when they're concerned about their finances or their country. Does anyone else see something wrong with the fact that consumers have limited spending in almost all areas but the entertainment industry?
 Stop seeking comfort! These are not times to be comfortable. Stop being pacified! These are times to act.
 Instead of standing up, speaking out, getting informed, banding together, taking initiative or putting down the remote and going outside, Americans retreat to our living rooms, scream at our sports teams, insert ourselves into video games, become brainwashed by pretty faces with little substance, and pat ourselves on the back when we send out activist chain mail. 
 Come on, America! Get up and get angry! Ignorance is not bliss.
 Robyn J. Mello Newark, Del., Oct. 7, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY IGOR KOPELNITSKY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BAILOUTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); TAX LAW (72%); GRAIN MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); DEREGULATION (67%); COMMODITIES TRADING (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MONETARY POLICY (53%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (61%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (61%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



317 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: With Outlook Dim, Bernanke Says Fed May Act on Rates

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT and EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Tuesday that the turmoil in the financial markets had increased the risk to overall growth and that federal regulators would have to be vigilant to halt the slide.
 ''Over all, the combination of the incoming data and recent financial developments suggests that the outlook for economic growth has worsened and that the downside risks to growth have increased,'' Mr. Bernanke told members of the National Association for Business Economics.
 In an address that was at once sobering but hopeful, at least for the long term, Mr. Bernanke hinted strongly that the Fed's Board of Governors would probably lower interest rates at its next meeting, on Oct. 28 and Oct. 29. 
 And he said that, however reluctantly, the Fed would continue to aggressively use all the tools it had to help ease the financial turmoil. ''These are momentous steps,'' he said, ''but they are being taken to address a problem of historic dimensions.''
 Only a few weeks ago, the Fed's official posture was that inflation was a serious concern. But now, even though the outlook remains uncertain, inflation has eased somewhat. ''In light of these developments, the Federal Reserve will need to consider whether the current stance of policy remains appropriate,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
 In effect, he was preparing the markets, and perhaps the country and even the world, to expect a lowering of the benchmark interest rate that applies to bank-to-bank lending, now at 2 percent.
 Moreover, Mr. Bernanke, while expressing faith in the just-enacted recovery program under which the government will buy troubled mortgage-backed securities and then resell them, seemed to counsel against counting on an overnight recovery.
 ''With time,'' Mr. Bernanke said, ''strengthening our financial institutions and markets will allow credit to begin flowing again, supporting economic growth.''
 The chairman emphasized that freeing the credit markets might be the most immediate need, not just for businesses that need the money to finance day-to-day operations but for ordinary households. ''By potentially restricting future flows of credit,'' he said, ''the developments in financial markets post a significant threat to economic growth.''
 President Bush also warned Tuesday against expecting a quick fix. 
 ''It's going to take time for these actions that I've described to you in the bill to have full effect,'' he told a business gathering in Chantilly, Va. ''You want to make sure that when we move, we move effectively. You want to make sure that the plan is well thought-out and well-delivered. Thawing the freeze in the financial system is not going to overnight, but it will be a process that unfolds over several stages.''
 Mr. Bernanke spoke hours after the Fed announced a new program to buy up companies' unsecured debt, a plan that pushes the agency closer than ever to the role of direct lender to business. 
 Mr. Bernanke said at the outset that the deep involvement of the Fed and other Washington agencies in trying to right the economy was not a development that he gladly embraced -- but that dire circumstances required it. 
 ''Government assistance should be provided with the greatest reluctance and only when the stability of the financial system, and thus the health of the broader economy, is at risk,'' he said.
 Mr. Bernanke virtually predicted an economy that would be sluggish, at best, in the near term. ''All told, economic activity is likely to be subdued during the remainder of this year and into next year,'' he said.
 His comments were not entirely pessimistic. He predicted, for instance, that the recovery program's cost to taxpayers ''will certainly be far less than $700 billion,'' the amount called for to purchase the troubled mortgage-backed securities. By extension, he was predicting that the securities might be worth something to investors, and perhaps much more than their opaque nature would indicate right now.
 Finally, Mr. Bernanke, who is an authority on the Great Depression, said that the country and its federal officials had learned from history that inaction or delayed reaction to financial calamity could be disastrous. 
 ''This is not the situation we face today,'' he said, predicting that official Washington's fast response ''together with the natural recuperative powers of the financial markets'' will pave the way toward recovery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



318 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Long History For Proposal By McCain On Mortgages

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Scrambling to repair his image on economic issues, Senator John McCain proposed during Tuesday night's debate a $300 billion plan authorizing the treasury secretary to buy the mortgages of homeowners in financial trouble and replace them with more affordable loans. 
 The campaign of Senator Barack Obama quickly countered by saying that the financial rescue plan that President Bush signed into law last week already gave the treasury secretary such power. And, his advisers noted, Mr. Obama recommended such a step in a news conference nearly two weeks ago.
 The Obama camp is correct that the new $700 billion bailout of the financial system gives the Treasury the authority to buy troubled mortgages. But the law leaves unclear how the authority is to be used, according to a person who was privy to the recent legislative negotiations between the White House and Congress and who is not affiliated with either campaign.
 The mortgage renewal idea actually originated with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, said Charlie Black, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain. And Mrs. Clinton, who proposed the idea in a recent newspaper column, borrowed it from a Depression-era New Deal agency, the Home Owner's Loan Corporation.
 As Mr. McCain's campaign described his program, it would be available to mortgagors for whom the property is their primary residence, who can prove they were creditworthy when the original loan was made and who made a down payment. ''Lenders in these cases must recognize the loss that they've already suffered,'' a McCain campaign summary said.
 Under the plan, it added, the Treasury would buy unaffordable mortgages directly from mortgage servicers and, in a reflection of the properties' diminished values, renegotiate ''manageable, fixed-rate mortgages that will keep families in their homes.'' Mr. McCain proposes that the roughly $300 billion cost would be covered by the $700 billion bailout law.
 That $700 billion total, however, was intended to give the Treasury the means to buy and hold troubled assets from financial institutions that might otherwise fail, so that those assets can be sold when markets recover and the assets regain value. But the McCain summary said that ''by stabilizing mortgages, it will likely be possible to avoid some purposes previously assumed needed in that bill.''
 Mr. McCain made his proposal near the start of Tuesday night's debate, and after polls in recent days showed him falling behind Mr. Obama, partly on questions of which candidate would better deal with the economic crisis.
 ''Is it expensive?'' he said of the proposal. ''Yes. But we all know, my friends, until we stabilize home values in America, we're never going to start turning around and creating jobs and fixing our economy.''
 While the Obama campaign's reaction indicated that the candidates were in agreement, the mortgage proposal raises a number of administrative questions, given the millions who might seek help. It also raises fairness issues, given the many homeowners who are scrimping in order to continue paying off mortgages based on former market values far higher than their properties' current worth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



319 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 578 words

 BODY:
THE BLEEDING CONTINUES It was sell, sell, sell in the markets as shares plummeted despite an indication from Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, that the central bank was ready to lower interest rates. 
 FEAR TURNS INTO PANIC Some financial experts say the bumpy ride in the markets shows how easily fear can escalate into outright panic, as investors sell first and ask questions later. [A1.] 
 HELP FOR THE MUNIS To free money for local governments, the Bush administration is trying to overcome legal issues in finding a way to thaw the municipal bond markets. [B1.] 
 WHAT THE BAILOUT WON'T COST The final price tag for the government's rescue of Wall Street is not likely to be anywhere near as high as the headlines say. But not spending the money would probably cost more. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [B1.]
 BICKERING OVER A BAILOUT As European leaders argued over the need for a financial bailout for Europe, Britain and Spain began rescues of their own. [B1.]
 Iceland used extraordinary measures to avoid a national bankruptcy. [B1.] 
 A.I.G. IN THE HOT SEAT Top sales agents for a unit of American International Group went on a retreat at a California resort and spent $442,000 -- a week after the government's $85 billion bailout of the company. [B1.] 
 CAR DOWN PAYMENTS GO UP It costs more initially to buy a car -- the average down payment according to one major survey was $5,915 for nonluxury vehicles as the credit crisis seeps into the auto market. [B7.]
 RETURN OF THE SHORT-SELLERS Short-sellers are returning to Wall Street after their nearly three-week ban. What will they do when they return? [B8.]
 NEW YOUTUBE SERVICEGoogle has introduced an e-commerce ad that YouTube users can click to buy digital goods from Apple iTunes or Amazon.com. [B4.] 
 ACCUSATION AGAINST PFIZER Pfizer manipulated scientific studies to increase the use of its epilepsy drug Neurontin, according to experts who reviewed company documents for plaintiffs in a lawsuit against Pfizer. [B4.] 
 NEW SHERIFF AT SIEMENS As general counsel for Siemens, Peter Y. Solmssen, below, is trying to change the large German engineering company's ways after a big bribery scandal two years ago. So far it seems to be working; many believe that Siemens has mended its ways. [B11.] 
 ANTI-HARASSMENT ADS For the first time, the Advertising Council is sponsoring ads to discourage the bullying and harassment of teenagers who are gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender. Advertising: Stuart Elliott [B4.]
 EX-UBS LAWYER SETTLES A former executive at UBS has made a $6.5 million settlement with the New York attorney general on accusations of insider trading in auction-rate securities. [B6.] 
 PROFIT DROPS FOR ALCOA Alcoa, one of the world's largest aluminum producers, reported a 52 percent drop in third-quarter profit and said it would halt a stock buyback and some capital projects. [B5.] 
 EMISSIONS LAW PASSES European Union legislators have approved laws aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions but took steps to ease the burden on industry. [B13.] 
 The European Commission will release a plan for consumer rights to help spur online and cross-border shopping. [B13.] 
 A.M.D.'S NEW TACK The split of Advanced Micro Devices gets the company out of chip manufacturing so it can focus on design. [B5.] 
 TRICKY BUSINESS For years, Ricky's has made a specialty of selling Halloween costumes. This year it has 19 stores, but securing the locations was tough. [B10.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (84%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BULLYING (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BONDS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SALES FORCE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); EPILEPSY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (66%); LITIGATION (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (65%); ENGINEERING (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); BRIBERY (60%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (60%); SCANDALS (50%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (50%); SHERIFFS (50%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (82%); SIEMENS AG (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%); APPLE INC (53%); ALCOA INC (50%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (82%); PFEB (BRU) (82%); PFE (NYSE) (82%); SIN (SWX) (81%); SIE (LSE) (81%); SIE (FRA) (81%); SIE (BIT) (81%); SI (NYSE) (81%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (53%); AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (82%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); ICELAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



320 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Palin's Kind of Patriotism

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Criticizing Sarah Palin is truly shooting fish in a barrel. But given the huge attention she is getting, you can't just ignore what she has to say. And there was one thing she said in the debate with Joe Biden that really sticks in my craw. It was when she turned to Biden and declared: ''You said recently that higher taxes or asking for higher taxes or paying higher taxes is patriotic. In the middle class of America, which is where Todd and I have been all of our lives, that's not patriotic.''
 What an awful statement. Palin defended the government's $700 billion rescue plan. She defended the surge in Iraq, where her own son is now serving. She defended sending more troops to Afghanistan. And yet, at the same time, she declared that Americans who pay their fair share of taxes to support all those government-led endeavors should not be considered patriotic. 
 I only wish she had been asked: ''Governor Palin, if paying taxes is not considered patriotic in your neighborhood, who is going to pay for the body armor that will protect your son in Iraq? Who is going to pay for the bailout you endorsed? If it isn't from tax revenues, there are only two ways to pay for those big projects -- printing more money or borrowing more money. Do you think borrowing money from China is more patriotic than raising it in taxes from Americans?'' That is not putting America first. That is selling America first.
 Sorry, I grew up in a very middle-class family in a very middle-class suburb of Minneapolis, and my parents taught me that paying taxes, while certainly no fun, was how we paid for the police and the Army, our public universities and local schools, scientific research and Medicare for the elderly. No one said it better than Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes: ''I like paying taxes. With them I buy civilization.''
 I can understand someone saying that the government has no business bailing out the financial system, but I can't understand someone arguing that we should do that but not pay for it with taxes. I can understand someone saying we have no business in Iraq, but I can't understand someone who advocates staying in Iraq until ''victory'' declaring that paying taxes to fund that is not patriotic. 
 How in the world can conservative commentators write with a straight face that this woman should be vice president of the United States? Do these people understand what serious trouble our country is in right now? 
 We are in the middle of an economic perfect storm, and we don't know how much worse it's going to get. People all over the world are hoarding cash, and no bank feels that it can fully trust anyone it is doing business with anywhere in the world. Did you notice that the government of Iceland just seized the country's second-largest bank and today is begging Russia for a $5 billion loan to stave off ''national bankruptcy.'' What does that say? It tells you that financial globalization has gone so much farther and faster than regulatory institutions could govern it. Our crisis could bankrupt Iceland! Who knew?
 And we have not yet even felt the full economic brunt here. I fear we may be at that moment just before the tsunami hits -- when the birds take flight and the insects stop chirping because their acute senses can feel what is coming before humans can. At this moment, only good governance can save us. I am not sure that this crisis will end without every government in every major economy guaranteeing the creditworthiness of every financial institution it regulates. That may be the only way to get lending going again. Organizing something that big and complex will take some really smart governance and seasoned leadership.
 Whether or not I agree with John McCain, he is of presidential timber. But putting the country in the position where a total novice like Sarah Palin could be asked to steer us through possibly the most serious economic crisis of our lives is flat out reckless. It is the opposite of conservative. 
 And please don't tell me she will hire smart advisers. What happens when her two smartest advisers disagree? 
 And please also don't tell me she is an ''energy expert.'' She is an energy expert exactly the same way the king of Saudi Arabia is an energy expert -- by accident of residence. Palin happens to be governor of the Saudi Arabia of America -- Alaska -- and the only energy expertise she has is the same as the king of Saudi Arabia's. It's about how the windfall profits from the oil in their respective kingdoms should be divided between the oil companies and the people.
 At least the king of Saudi Arabia, in advocating ''drill baby drill,'' is serving his country's interests -- by prolonging America's dependence on oil. My problem with Palin is that she is also serving his country's interests -- by prolonging America's dependence on oil. That's not patriotic. Patriotic is offering a plan to build our economy -- not by tax cuts or punching more holes in the ground, but by empowering more Americans to work in productive and innovative jobs. If Palin has that kind of a plan, I haven't heard it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); MEDICARE (74%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); FAMILY (71%); ARMED FORCES (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (50%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (91%); JOE BIDEN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



321 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Politics of Attack

 BODY:
It is a sorry fact of American political life that campaigns get ugly, often in their final weeks. But Senator John McCain and Gov. Sarah Palin have been running one of the most appalling campaigns we can remember. 
 They have gone far beyond the usual fare of quotes taken out of context and distortions of an opponent's record -- into the dark territory of race-baiting and xenophobia. Senator Barack Obama has taken some cheap shots at Mr. McCain, but there is no comparison. 
 Despite the occasional slip (referring to Mr. Obama's ''cronies'' and calling him ''that one''), Mr. McCain tried to take a higher road in Tuesday night's presidential debate. It was hard to keep track of the number of time he referred to his audience as ''my friends.'' But apart from promising to buy up troubled mortgages as president, he offered no real answers for how he plans to solve the country's deep economic crisis. He is unable or unwilling to admit that the Republican assault on regulation was to blame. 
 Ninety minutes of forced cordiality did not erase the dismal ugliness of his campaign in recent weeks, nor did it leave us with much hope that he would not just return to the same dismal ugliness on Wednesday.
 Ms. Palin, in particular, revels in the attack. Her campaign rallies have become spectacles of anger and insult. ''This is not a man who sees America as you see it and how I see America,'' Ms. Palin has taken to saying.
 That line follows passages in Ms. Palin's new stump speech in which she twists Mr. Obama's ill-advised but fleeting and long-past association with William Ayers, founder of the Weather Underground and confessed bomber. By the time she's done, she implies that Mr. Obama is right now a close friend of Mr. Ayers -- and sympathetic to the violent overthrow of the government. The Democrat, she says, ''sees America, it seems, as being so imperfect that he's palling around with terrorists who would target their own country.''
 Her demagoguery has elicited some frightening, intolerable responses. A recent Washington Post report said at a rally in Florida this week a man yelled ''kill him!'' as Ms. Palin delivered that line and others shouted epithets at an African-American member of a TV crew.
 Mr. McCain's aides haven't even tried to hide their cynical tactics, saying they were ''going negative'' in hopes of shifting attention away from the financial crisis -- and by implication Mr. McCain's stumbling response.
 We certainly expected better from Mr. McCain, who once showed withering contempt for win-at-any-cost politics. He was driven out of the 2000 Republican primaries by this sort of smear, orchestrated by some of the same people who are now running his campaign.
 And the tactic of guilt by association is perplexing, since Mr. McCain has his own list of political associates he would rather forget. We were disappointed to see the Obama campaign air an ad (held for just this occasion) reminding voters of Mr. McCain's involvement in the Keating Five savings-and-loan debacle, for which he was reprimanded by the Senate. That episode at least bears on Mr. McCain's claims to be the morally pure candidate and his argument that he alone is capable of doing away with greed, fraud and abuse. 
 In a way, we should not be surprised that Mr. McCain has stooped so low, since the debate showed once again that he has little else to talk about. He long ago abandoned his signature issues of immigration reform and global warming; his talk of ''victory'' in Iraq has little to offer a war-weary nation; and his Reagan-inspired ideology of starving government and shredding regulation lies in tatters on Wall Street.
 But surely, Mr. McCain and his team can come up with a better answer to that problem than inciting more division, anger and hatred. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); TERRORISM (64%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%); SARAH PALIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



322 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Mud Pies For 'That One'

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Some of John McCain's friends, from the good old days when he talked straight, feared that his Greek tragedy would be that he would be defeated by George Bush twice: once in 2000, because of W.'s no-conscience campaigning, and again in 2008, because of W.'s no-brains governing.
 But if McCain loses, he will have contributed to his own downfall by failing to live up to his personal standard of honor. 
 John McCain has long been torn between wanting to succeed and serving a higher cause. Right now, the drive to succeed is trumping any loftier aspirations. He cynically picked a running mate with less care than theater directors give to picking a leading actor's understudy. And he has been running a seamy campaign originally designed by the bad seed of conservative politics, Lee Atwater. 
 It was adapted in 2000 in Atwater's home state of South Carolina by Atwater acolytes in W.'s camp to harpoon McCain with rumors that he had fathered out of wedlock a black baby (as opposed to adopting a Bangladeshi infant girl in wedlock). Sulfurous Atwater-style rumor-mongering by Bush supporters -- that McCain had come home from a Hanoi tiger cage with snakes in his head -- aimed to stop him during that primary after he had zoomed in New Hampshire.
 Atwater relished teaching rich, white Republicans to feign a connection to the common man so they could get in office and economically undermine the common man. In the 1988 campaign, the Machiavellian ran to help George Bush Sr. defeat Michael Dukakis with this unholy quintet of charges:
 The Democrat was a '60s-style liberal who would raise taxes and take away guns. He was weak and would not protect the country militarily. He was a member of the elite ''Harvard Yard's boutique.'' He had a foreign-sounding name and was not on ''the American side.'' He was on the side of the Scary Black Man.
 Sound familiar?
 Certainly, at some level, John McCain must be disgusted with himself for using the tactics perfected by the same crowd that used these tactics to derail him in 2000. He's now curmudgeonly, even hostile, toward the press -- the group he used to spend hours with every day and jokingly describe as his base.
 He unleashed Sarah Palin to slime their opponent and suggested that the Democrat with the foreign-sounding name who came from the Harvard Yard boutique is not on the American side.
 Campaigning last weekend, Palin cast their Democratic rival as ''someone who sees America, it seems, as being so imperfect that he's palling around with terrorists who would target their own country.''
 The woman is sounding more Cheney than Cheney. Palin said that Obama's relationship with the former Weatherman William Ayers proved that he did not have the ''truthfulness and judgment'' to be president. Asked by William Kristol if the Rev. Jeremiah Wright should be an issue, she said, ''I don't know why that association isn't discussed more.''
 Atwater gleefully tried to paint Willie Horton as Dukakis's running mate. With a black man running, it's even easier for Atwater's disciple running McCain's campaign to warn that white Americans should not open the door to the dangerous Other, or ''That One,'' as McCain referred to Obama in Tuesday night's debate. (A cross between ''The One'' and ''That Woman.'')
 On Monday, McCain made Obama, who has been campaigning for almost two years now, sound like an ominous intruder, questioning his character and motives, telling a New Mexico crowd that ''even at this late hour in the campaign, there are essential things we don't know about Senator Obama ...
 ''All people want to know is: What has this man ever actually accomplished in government? What does he plan for America? In short: Who is the real Barack Obama?''
 The new McCain TV ad, ''Dangerous,'' calls Obama ''dishonorable,'' ''dangerous'' and ''too risky for America.''
 McCain aides have been blunt in their need to change the subject from the economy. But, as with Bush Senior's re-election campaign, slithery character attacks don't scare as well when Americans are already scared about keeping their jobs and retirement savings. Maybe that's why McCain didn't bring up Ayers or Wright during the debate, instead leaving it to Sarah Barracuda.
 Palin finally took questions on Tuesday from her traveling press corps on her campaign plane. Asked if she thought Senator Obama was dishonest, McCain's Mean Girl meandered:
 ''I'm not saying he's dishonest, but in terms of judgment, in terms of being able to answer a question forthrightly, it has two different parts to this. The judgment and the truthfulness and just being able to answer very candidly a simple question about when did you know him, how did you know him, is there still -- has there been an association continued since '02 or '05, I know I've read a couple different stories. I think it's relevant.''
 Of course she does. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); MAMMALS (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); THEATER (69%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); SARAH PALIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



323 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Palin Plays to Conservative Base in Florida Rallies

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

 BODY:
Florida is as far as Gov. Sarah Palin could be from Alaska, and still remain in the United States, but she knew home when she saw it.
 Standing before a sea of red T-shirts and homemade signs reading ''No Communists!'' and ''Palin's Pitbulls,'' Ms. Palin on Tuesday nestled in to her Republican base.
 ''Our opponent voted to cut off funding for our troops,'' Ms. Palin said, as she was interrupted by a deep-throated chorus of boos. ''He did this even after saying that he wouldn't do such a thing. And he said, too, that our troops in Afghanistan are just, quote, 'air-raiding villages and killing civilians.' I hope Americans know that is not what our brave men and women are doing in Afghanistan.'' 
 ''Treason!'' one man in the crowd shouted angrily. 
 On a two-day, five-rally campaign swing through Florida, Ms. Palin was met by an enthusiastic response from audiences who devoured every word of her anti-Democratic pitch.
 From Jacksonville in the northeast to Pensacola in the Panhandle, the fiery crowds gathered to jeer at any hint of liberalism, boo loudly at the mere mention of Senator Barack Obama's name and heckle the traveling press corps (at a rally in Clearwater, one man hurled a racial epithet at a television cameraman). 
 If there were undecideds, independents or swing voters among them, they were awfully hard to spot. 
 Florida is still a too-close-to-call battleground state, with most recent polls showing Mr. Obama ahead, but not by much. That Ms. Palin campaigned there in Republican strongholds like Pensacola suggests an effort to increase turnout among the party's base. 
 Ms. Palin, and the speakers who opened for her, gave the crowds what they came for.
 A conservative radio host who spoke Monday told the crowd that Mr. Obama ''hangs around with terrorists.'' Another speaker at the same rally wondered out loud, to wild applause, ''How can anyone aspire to be our commander in chief when he would not last two hours in one of our military academies?''
 When it was Ms. Palin's turn, she struck at some of the same themes, portraying Mr. Obama as a tax-and-spend liberal with a ''left-wing agenda that's packaged and prettied up to look good like mainstream policies.'' 
 ''Higher taxes and bigger government and activist courts and retreat in war -- that's not the right track for America,'' she said in Pensacola. ''That's another dead end.'' 
 The crowd cheered.
 She repeatedly attacked Mr. Obama for his association with Bill Ayers, the leader of a 1960s radical group, the Weather Underground. 
 ''I'm afraid this is someone who sees America as imperfect enough to work with a former domestic terrorist who had targeted his own country,'' she said at a rally in Clearwater.
 In Pensacola, she ridiculed him for his campaign's statement that he did not know Mr. Ayers's full background when they were first acquainted. ''He didn't know that he had launched his career in the living room of a domestic terrorist?'' she said. 
 ''Get him, Sarah!'' one woman yelled.
 Ms. Palin appeared relieved at her exuberant reception. ''It's really great to be around friendly crowds,'' she said at a fund-raiser in Boca Raton on Monday evening. ''Boy, you guys just get it!''
 During her Florida swing, Ms. Palin did not take questions from the audience and granted interviews only to local television reporters, common in highly managed campaigns. But after leaving Florida, on her way to Greenville, N.C., she for the first time in a month took questions from her traveling press corps, in a brief and impromptu news conference on her campaign plane.
 She answered questions on the state of the race, on the relevance of Mr. Ayers, on the state investigation in Alaska centered on her husband, Todd, and on the recent negative campaigning.
 Ms. Palin was asked if she thought voters who are worried about the economy are turned off by the ''attack politics'' of bringing up Mr. Ayers on the trail. 
 ''It is, though, about the economy about creating jobs and about resource development and energy independence here,'' Ms. Palin said. ''It comes down to one ticket's proposal that can be trusted, and another ticket's proposal to deal with some of these issues and maybe questioning the truthfulness and the intention there. I think it's very relevant there.''
 Asked if she was saying Mr. Obama is dishonest, she answered only that the Ayers association raised questions of ''judgment and the truthfulness and just being able to answer very candidly a simple question about when did you know him, how did you know him.'' She added, ''I think it's relevant.''
 The Ayers line of attack, indeed, played well with the crowds who came out to see her during her two days in Florida -- 8,000 people in an arena in Estero, in southwest Florida, with 2,000 more waiting outside, according to the fire marshal. 
 Many of those who went to see Ms. Palin -- some dressed in head-to-toe McCain-Palin regalia -- described themselves as staunch Republicans who said they would never consider voting for a Democrat. ''You can't have leadership without conservatism,'' said Misty Coleman of Lillian, Ala.
 Many people said they were still strong supporters of President Bush, part of the 25 percent of Americans in a Gallup Poll released Monday who said they approved of his performance. 
 Elizabeth Dolan, 31, a single mother and waitress, said she counted Mr. Bush among one of the great presidents. ''He was really good for my family,'' Ms. Dolan said. ''We're hurting financially, but he shares our values just like Sarah Palin does.'' 
 Watching the crowd disperse after a Palin rally there, Kyle Roberts, 65, of Pensacola, said, ''I think Bush will be remembered as a good president.'' He added: ''He's kept us safe since 9/11. He's done a lot of good for us.''
 Mr. Roberts said the only other time he had seen so many staunch Republicans in one place was at a campaign rally for Mr. Bush in 2004, held in the same arena in Pensacola.
 The crowd for Mr. Bush, he recalled, ''was a little quieter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska found a supportive crowd as she attacked Democrats on Tuesday at a rally in Jacksonville, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKE ROTH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (76%); TREASON (73%); TERRORISM (69%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (50%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (93%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



324 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHECK POINT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: On a Variety of Topics, Room for Exaggerations

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY PETER BAKER KEVIN SACK DAVID E. SANGER LARRY ROHTER; Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In their second debate, Senators Barack Obama and John McCain indulged in their fair share of misrepresentations on Tuesday night as they tried to convince voters of their fitness to be president. Here are some of their misstatements:
 Big Spender
 Mr. McCain said his Democratic rival had proposed ''$860 billion in new spending.'' This is the same assertion that Mr. McCain has been making in recent weeks on the campaign trail. 
 The McCain campaign said the figure was based on adding up all of the programs that Mr. Obama has proposed, more than 40 initiatives throughout the course of the campaign. But it does not factor in any of the money that an Obama administration would save through cuts in other programs.
 Last month, the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget called Mr. McCain's $860 billion assertion ''a misleading figure taken out of context.'' JEFF ZELENY 
 Most Liberal?
 Mr. McCain suggested that voters ''go to some of these organizations that are the watchdogs of what we do, like the Citizens Against Government Waste or the National Taxpayers Union'' and look at Mr. Obama's record. ''And you know what you'll find?'' Mr. McCain said. ''This is the most liberal, big-spending record in the United States Senate.''
 It is certainly true that Mr. Obama is not rated favorably by either group, but neither ranks him as its ''most liberal'' spender in the Senate. The National Taxpayers Union gave Mr. Obama an ''F'' grade for each of his first three years in the Senate but also ranked four senators lower than him and one the same in 2005. Thirty were ranked lower than him and three the same in 2006, and five were lower than him and five the same in 2007.
 Citizens Against Government Waste concluded that Mr. Obama voted their way just 10 percent of the time in 2007 and 18 percent of the time in his entire Senate career. PETER BAKER 
 Health Care
 Both candidates mischaracterized elements of their opponent's health care proposals and may have oversold their own.
 Mr. McCain, in arguing that Mr. Obama favors government solutions to the plight of the uninsured, charged that Mr. Obama would ''impose mandates'' on small businesses to provide coverage for employees and on parents to insure their children. As Mr. Obama pointed out in response, Mr. McCain was only half right.
 ''If you're a small-businessperson and you don't insure your employees, Senator Obama will fine you,'' Mr. McCain said. ''He'll fine you. That's remarkable. If you're a parent and you're struggling to get health insurance for your children, Senator Obama will fine you.''
 Mr. Obama would, in fact, require medium and large employers to either provide coverage to their workers or pay a tax into a fund that would help subsidize coverage for low-income people. But his plan specifically exempts small businesses from the requirement. In fact, Mr. Obama proposes to offer a substantial tax credit to small businesses to encourage them to provide insurance.
 Mr. Obama has not said how small a company would have to be in order to qualify for the exemption, nor has he quantified the size of the penalty.
 Mr. Obama has, however, said he would require parents to insure their children. He has not specified a penalty for those who do not. Though Mr. McCain asserted that ''every parent I know would acquire health insurance for their children if they could,'' studies have shown that more than one million low-income children who are eligible for inexpensive government insurance plans remain uninsured.
 Mr. Obama was correct that Mr. McCain voted against increasing financing for one of those plans, the Children's Health Insurance Program. He did so twice last year.
 Mr. Obama, meanwhile, charged that Mr. McCain would ''strip away the ability of states to provide some of the regulations on insurance companies to make sure you're not excluded for preexisting conditions or your mammograms are covered or your maternity is covered.'' Mr. McCain has not specifically proposed deregulating the insurance industry by removing coverage requirements. But some economists argue that could be the effect of his plan to allow the sale of insurance policies across state lines. Because some states require insurers to cover more conditions and procedures than others, Mr. Obama contends that insurers would flock to states that impose the least burdensome regulations. 
 Mr. Obama also repeated his oft-stated assertion that his plan will save the average family $2,500 a year in premium costs, while Mr. McCain said his plan -- which would end the exclusion of employer-sponsored health benefits from income taxes and instead give families a $5,000 tax credit -- would leave 95 percent of Americans with a net gain. Experts have disputed both of those claims. KEVIN SACK 
 Seeking Bin Laden
 When Mr. Obama was asked whether he would violate Pakistan's sovereignty and go over the Pakistan border to pursue the militants who are attacking American forces in Afghanistan he narrowed the question -- saying he would go into Pakistan if he had information about the whereabouts of Osama bin Laden. That, of course, has been the Bush administration's policy since just days after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
 The question he sidestepped is more difficult: Whether he would go after the forces attacking Americans -- a mix of Taliban, tribal militants and distant associates of Al Qaeda. That is a far more difficult question than going after Al Qaeda. In July, President Bush reversed himself on this question and issued classified orders permitting American special forces to do just that. Neither Mr. Obama nor Mr. McCain referred to that decision, or said whether they would continue the policy Mr. Bush adopted over the summer.
 Mr. McCain talked about cooperating with the Pakistanis, suggesting that it was their responsibility to take action in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas and North and South Waziristan, the safe haven for the militants. But he also, on two occasions, referred to his hero Teddy Roosevelt, citing his famous statement about the need to ''speak softly and carry a big stick.'' (Roosevelt actually said ''walk softly and carry a big stick.'') He chastised Mr. Obama as speaking too loudly, and Mr. McCain seemed to suggest that if he goes into Pakistan, he will do it quietly and covertly. In the end he never quite said whether he would respect Pakistan's sovereignty. DAVID E. SANGER 
 Humanitarian Intervention
 On the subject of humanitarian intervention to prevent genocide, Mr. Obama made some assertions about policy and history that at best are fuzzy and that many historians would probably question.
 ''If we could have intervened effectively in the Holocaust, who among us would say that we had a moral obligation not to go in?'' he asked. ''If we could have stopped Rwanda, surely if we had the ability that would be something that we would have to strongly consider and act.''
 But Bill Clinton, who was president at the time of the Rwanda genocide, said the question was not one of ''ability'' so much as political will. In two visits to Rwanda, the last in 2005, he has apologized for not having taken steps to use American power to prevent the slaughter that took place in 1994, killing hundreds of thousands of people in a three-month period.
 ''I was the government of the United States in 1994'' and did not act, Mr. Clinton said in a visit to a museum in the Rwandan capital in July 2005. ''I express regret for my personal failure,'' he added.
 The reasons for that failure are complicated and still being debated. But one factor was clearly a desire to avoid a repetition of what had happened in 1993 in nearby Somalia, where a humanitarian intervention by American troops led to the political disaster depicted in the film ''Black Hawk Down.'' LARRY ROHTER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama said his opponent's health care plan would ''strip away the ability of states to provide some of the regulations on insurance companies.''
Speaking of his rival's record in the Senate, Senator John McCain said at the debate, ''This is the most liberal, big-spending record in the United States Senate.''
 Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain differed sharply Tuesday at their Nashville debate in their responses to questions on energy and economic and foreign policy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LIBERALISM (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION (55%); CITIZENS AGAINST GOVERNMENT WASTE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



325 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ROAD TO NOVEMBER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Where He First Got Going, Cheering Obama On

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: DES MOINES 

 BODY:
This is where it all began for Barack Obama, and Democrats here long to feel as though they have a role in closing the deal. 
 ''Iowa is a bellwether,'' said Chris Matson, 33, who was one of a few dozen Obama supporters gathered for a debate party on Tuesday night at the Dos Rios, a Mexican restaurant in downtown Des Moines. ''George Bush won here in 2004, Barack Obama started his campaign here and this is the place that gave him his momentum to move on. As Iowa goes, so goes the nation.''
 The state is home to the first nominating contest, the Iowa caucuses, and voters take pride in their hyper-engagement and their sense that they set the tone for the general election, even if their seven Electoral College votes most likely will not swing the outcome. In Des Moines, one bar, Tonic, allows patrons to vote on whether or not it will air the debate. 
 ''We're huge,'' said Chasity Driscoll, 26. ''The first delegate comes from here.''
 Ms. Driscoll said Mr. Obama got her interested in politics. ''I didn't come from a family where politics were really important,'' said Ms. Driscoll, an administrative assistant. ''But I'm at the age now where everything affects me.''
 Democrats, like those in the Dos Rios, are anxious about what increasingly seems to be their chance to hand the state to Mr. Obama. Mr. Bush won the state by a whisker in 2004, but it is now leaning toward Mr. Obama, who set his sights on the state early on in 2007, building a formidable ground operation. Mr. McCain focused his campaign on the New Hampshire primary and came in fourth in the caucuses here.
 Further, Mr. McCain, of Arizona, has not endeared himself to many voters here with his vocal opposition to subsidies for ethanol, a corn-derived alternative to petroleum-based gasoline. Drive through Iowa, and it is corn to your left, corn to your right and politically risky to deride ethanol subsidies here. 
 But several Obama supporters said before the debate that they were nervous, and were looking for Mr. Obama to take a more aggressive stance than they believe he took in the first debate. Just before it began, Joan Faber, a professor, said: ''I want to make sure he doesn't let McCain shift away from important issues. McCain's whole economic theory has been discredited, so I'd like to see that point made more clearly.'' 
 Debate watchers at Dos Rios -- the sort of crowd that can cite chapter and verse of Medicaid waivers without notes -- watched intensely, taking their eyes off the television only to grab a Corona. 
 When the candidates were just out of the gate, the snickering immediately began. At Mr. McCain's first answer. At the Arizona senator's reminder that he announced he had suspended his campaign during the Congressional bailout vote. 
 ''Give me a break,'' hooted one man in a tie. When Mr. Obama tossed out the line that Mr. McCain's ''straight talk express lost a wheel,'' with regard to tax policy, there was more hooting. When he mentioned Mr. McCain's 26 years in Washington, the applause was like that given at the end of a Broadway play. 
 ''I think he's doing really well,'' said Kelli Griffis, a librarian, midway through the debate. ''I thought he was weak in the first debate, and this is more McCain's forum. But now that I've seen them in action, he's doing much better than I expected.''
 Health care was clearly a big issue in this crowd, and Mr. Obama's statement that health care was a ''right'' got a big round, too. ''I like the fact that he is taking steps toward universal health care,'' said Mr. Matson, an osteopath. 
 Back to you, Ms. Faber. ''I think he has had a pretty strong debate,'' she said, expressing relief. ''I was so happy to hear a clear difference between them on health care, with Obama saying that it was a right instead of something that the market will resolve. I think this debate helped to illustrate some strong differences between them.''
 Whitney Brown, 24, said she thought Mr. Obama, of Illinois, might have pushed some Iowa voters who were on the fence toward her candidate. ''He did well,'' said Ms. Brown, a graduate student. ''This type of debate compared to the last one showcased their personalities,'' she said. ''And I think that would be a big factor to anyone who is undecided at this point.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a Des Moines restaurant, Iowans gathered to watch the debate. Their state held the first nominating contest, nine months ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); BIOFUELS (85%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SALES & SELLING (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MEDICAID (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (66%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (66%); ETHANOL (66%); ALCOHOLS (61%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (94%) IOWA, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



326 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Downturn in Decibels, Too

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
Neither candidate was selling morning in America. At times it seemed more like a competition to see who could paint the gloaming in the least unsettling hues.
 Tuesday night's presidential debate was remarkable for the dourness of its mood, for the frequently subdued demeanors of the candidates even as they tore into each other, which they did with somewhat less vigor and venom than expected, given how little time remains until Election Day, given how nasty the campaign had recently turned.
 The debate -- No. 2 of 3, and the only one to be conducted in a town-hall style -- came on a day when the stock market closed nearly 1,700 points lower than it had in the hours before their first debate. And even back then, Senator Barack Obama was already talking of the country's worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.
 Now the situation looks gloomier still, with markets in other continents tumbling -- with a world of hurt at hand. And the sort of can-do, feel-good, rah-rah exuberance that candidates sometimes bring to debates was in conspicuously short supply. 
 ''I'm going to ask the American people to understand that there are some programs we're going to have to eliminate,'' Senator John McCain said at one point, and he said it not as a defiant assertion of waste but as a rueful acceptance of reality.
 Moments later Mr. Obama said, of rising oil prices and limited oil supplies, ''There is going to be the need for each and every one of us to start thinking about how we use energy.''
 There were echoes -- almost -- of Jimmy Carter in that sentence. When was the last time a candidate vying for the highest office in the land summoned a memory of him rather than Ronald Reagan? 
 To be sure, there were also the usual, classic, timeless paeans to American resourcefulness and optimism, along with the inevitable Reagan reference -- by Mr. McCain.
 Mr. Obama noted that President John F. Kennedy promised the moon -- and the country indeed got there.
 Mr. McCain said: ''We can attack energy and health care at the same time. We're not rifle shots here. We're Americans!'' It was the oratorical equivalent of Gov. Sarah Palin's flag pin during the last debate, easily twice as big and twinkly as that of Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr.
 And there were a few moments during the long first hour -- and a few more during the quick last half hour -- when the exchanges were more spirited and tense. Mr. McCain's apparent irritation spiked as he exhibited condescension toward his younger rival.
 ''By the way, my friends, I know you grow a little weary of this back and forth,'' Mr. McCain said, as he seized one of many occasions to characterize Mr. Obama as a relentless spender.
 ''There was an energy bill on the floor of the Senate loaded down with goodies, billions for the oil companies,'' he continued. ''And it was sponsored by Bush and Cheney. You know who voted for it -- you might never know?''
 ''That one,'' he added acerbically, and pointed toward Mr. Obama as if accusing him of a crime. Mr. McCain did not, tellingly, look at him.
 ''You know who voted against it?'' Mr. McCain concluded. ''Me.'' 
 In the last half hour, Mr. McCain -- who has been falling ever farther behind Mr. Obama in national polls and many swing-state polls -- grew even more combative, his jaw clenching ever tighter, his words squeezed out.
 And when the debate was over, Mr. McCain hustled away, while Mr. Obama lingered, chatting with the audience and signing autographs. 
 But during the first hour of the debate, candidates' voices communicated anger less often than mere frustration. The decibel level was sometimes whispery and the gestures usually muted. There were no exaggerated huffs, no big laughs, no long sighs.
 And many of the attacks, counterattacks and lightning rods of recent days never made it onto the red-carpeted stage.
 Ms. Palin? Absent. So was any mention of William C. Ayers, the former Weather Underground leader whom the McCain campaign has tried to link closely to Mr. Obama.
 And the Keating Five scandal, the subject of a recent Obama campaign Internet video, took the night off as well.
 It was as if the candidates had decided that the nation's anxiety was too profound for Americans to be subjected to anything too ugly, anything that might make them even more uneasy.
 Or, rather, that such a spectacle would not serve the candidate deemed to be the principal agent of it. They were not striving for passionate. Somber and steady seemed to be the goals.
 That is not to say they did not play on voters' fears, each candidate casting the other as someone too risky for a juncture with issues so urgent and stakes so high.
 Mr. McCain yet again suggested that Mr. Obama simply would not be able to find his way through this dangerous world.
 Mr. Obama countered: ''Now, Senator McCain suggests that somehow, you know, I'm green behind the ears and, you know, I'm just spouting off and he's somber and responsible.'' 
 ''Thank you very much,'' interjected Mr. McCain, the one who worked harder Tuesday night at such folksy notes -- like calling questioners and even Tom Brokaw by their first names; roaming so far and wide across the stage it seemed he would end up in the Nashville suburbs; and saying ''my friends'' so often it sounded less cordial than compulsive. 
 Mr. Obama then continued: ''Senator McCain, this is the guy who sang, 'Bomb, bomb, bomb Iran,' who called for the annihilation of North Korea.''
 Despite some odd verbal hiccups during that exchange, Mr. Obama spoke more fluidly than Mr. McCain, and so calmly that the town-hall format was a largely wasted opportunity. Mr. Obama did not use it to communicate any of the spontaneity he has been accused of lacking.
 Mr. McCain, for his part, used the paper in front of him to write so many notes to himself, in such a focused fashion, that he could have passed for a student in a penmanship class.
 But his message was that he was teacher, the veteran, the one who knew the score and could show the way. He insisted as well that he alone had a record of bipartisanship -- that Mr. Obama was too liberal to reach across party lines.
 Although he never mentioned Ms. Palin, Mr. McCain mentioned Senator Joseph I. Lieberman at least four times. It was a way of summoning an independent -- formerly a Democrat -- to his side and saying ''maverick'' without actually saying it, as Ms. Palin had done perhaps several times too many during her debate.
 But for almost every Lieberman reference, Mr. Obama made two to Bush. And he was not allying himself with the president. He was hanging him around Mr. McCain's neck.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the audience listening to the candidates' answers. The two presidential nominees spoke on their differences in economic policies as well as foreign affairs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); SARAH PALIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



327 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the Second Presidential Debate

 BODY:
Excerpts from the presidential debate on Tuesday night in Nashville between Senator John McCain and Senator Barack Obama, as recorded by Federal News Service. The moderator was Tom Brokaw of NBC News, with questions from the audience and submitted online. A full transcript and video: nytimes.com/politics.
 OLIVER CLARK, AUDIENCE MEMBER Well, Senators, through this economic crisis, most of the people that I know have had a difficult time. And through this bailout package, I was wondering what it is that's going to actually help those people out. 
 MR. MCCAIN That's an excellent question because, as you just described it, ''bailout'' when I believe that it's ''rescue.'' Because of the greed and excess in Washington and Wall Street, Main Street was paying a very heavy price, and we know that. I left my campaign and suspended it to go back to Washington to make sure that there were additional protections for the taxpayer in the form of good oversight and the form of taxpayers being the first to be paid back when our economy recovers, and it will recover, and a number of other measures.
 But you know, one of the real catalysts, really the match that lit this fire was Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. I'll bet you, you may never even have heard of them before this crisis. But you know, they're the ones that with the encouragement of Senator Obama and his cronies and his friends, in Washington, that went out and made all these risky loans, gave them to people that could never afford to pay back. And you know, there were some of us that stood up two years ago and said, we've got to enact legislation to fix this. We've got to stop this greed and excess. ... 
 So this rescue package means that we will stabilize markets. We will buy -- we will shore up these institutions, but it's not enough. That's why we're going to have to go out into the housing market. And we're going to have to buy up these bad loans. And we're going to have to stabilize house, home values. And that way Americans can ... realize the American dream and stay in their home. But Fannie and Freddie were the catalysts, the match that started this forest fire. There were some of us -- there were some of us that stood up against us; there was others who took a hike. 
 MR. BROKAW Senator Obama. 
 MR. OBAMA Well, Oliver, first let me tell you what's in the rescue package for you. Right now, the credit markets are frozen up. And what that means as a practical matter is that small businesses and some large businesses just can't get loans. If they can't get a loan, that means that they can't make payroll. If they can't make payroll, then they may end up having to shut their doors and lay people off. And if you imagine just one company trying to deal with that, now imagine a million companies all across the country. So it could end up having an adverse affect of everybody. And that's why we had to take action, but we shouldn't have been there in the first place. ...
 Let's first of all understand that the biggest problem in this whole process was the deregulation of the financial system. Senator McCain, as recently as March, bragged about the fact that he is a deregulator.
 On the other hand, two years ago I said that we've got a subprime lending crisis that has to be dealt with. I wrote to Secretary Paulson, I wrote to Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke, and told them this is something we have to deal with, and nobody did anything about it. 
 A year ago I went to Wall Street and said we've got to reregulate. And nothing happened. And Senator McCain during that period said that we should keep on deregulating because that's how the free enterprise system works. 
 Now, with respect to Fannie Mae, what Senator McCain didn't mention is the fact that this bill that he talked about wasn't his own bill. He jumped on it a year after it had been introduced, and it never got passed. 
 And I never promoted Fannie Mae. In fact, Senator McCain's campaign chairman's firm was a lobbyist on behalf of Fannie Mae, not me. 
 So -- but look, you're not interested in hearing politicians pointing fingers. What you're interested in is trying to figure out how is this going to impact you. 
 This is not the end of the process, this is the beginning of the process. And that's why it's going to be so important for us to work with homeowners to make sure that they can stay in their homes.
 The secretary already has the power to do that in the rescue package, but it hasn't been exercised yet. And the next president has to make sure that the next treasury secretary is thinking about how to strengthen you as a home buyer, you as a homeowner, and not simply think about bailing out banks on Wall Street.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); HOME PRICES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); FOREST FIRES (65%); FIRES (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



328 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: Economic Woes Set Tone for Rivals in 2nd Debate

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
Senators John McCain and Barack Obama debated for 90 minutes on Tuesday night before a nation in economic crisis, each promising anxious Americans that he had the better plan and vision to lead the country through what both men said was the most dire financial situation since the Great Depression.
 The gravity of the moment and the somber setting -- a town-hall-style meeting in front of 80 selected voters who, when not asking questions, watched in silence, not applauding or laughing -- produced an often stifled encounter, largely absent of dramatic confrontations or the personal exchanges that dominated the campaign over the past several days. There was no indication that the debate did anything to change the course of a campaign that appeared to be moving in Mr. Obama's direction.
 Mr. McCain chose not to use the evening -- the second of three scheduled debates -- to attack Mr. Obama's background or character. But in a moment that caught the attention of people in both parties, he appeared agitated in criticizing Mr. Obama for a Senate vote he cast, referring to his opponent only as ''that one.'' 
 Mr. Obama placed the blame for the financial crisis on deregulation and the lack of fiscal discipline under President Bush, whom he repeatedly linked to Mr. McCain. Mr. McCain, at every opportunity, presented his opponent as an advocate of spending and higher taxes, while presenting himself as pragmatic, willing to reach across the aisle and sometimes at odds with Mr. Bush.
 Mr. McCain sought to break through by highlighting a proposal under which the Treasury Department would buy up mortgages that had gone bad, and in effect refinance them at prices homeowners could afford. 
 Arriving in Nashville for the debate, Mr. McCain was under pressure to alter the dynamic of the race, with polls giving Mr. Obama an advantage nationally and in most battleground states and just four weeks left until Election Day. There were no obvious dramatic breakthrough moments by Mr. McCain; indeed, although the two men pummeled back and forth, it was Mr. Obama who more consistently drew sharp contrasts between the voting records and campaign promises of the two.
 Mr. McCain kept his distance from the types of attacks on Mr. Obama's background and character begun in recent days by his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin. Not only did he not mention Bill Ayers, the 1960s radical that the McCain campaign -- and Ms. Palin in particular -- has sought to link to Mr. Obama, he did not mention Ms. Palin once.
 Instead, standing in what he has long described as his favorite campaign setting a town hall meeting, though one set up under extraordinary strict restrictions that limited any interaction between candidates and voter -- he seemed more the McCain of an earlier campaign, repeatedly presenting himself as the agent who could end partisan division in Washington. Again and again, he criticized Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney, invoking the names of such Democratic senators as Edward M. Kennedy and Russ Feingold, as well as his friend Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who ran for vice president as a Democrat in 2000 but this year, as an independent, has endorsed Mr. McCain. 
 ''I have a clear record of bipartisanship,'' he said ''The situation today cries out for bipartisanship. Senator Obama has never taken on his leaders of his party on a single issue. And we need to reform.''
 In a moment that suggested Mr. McCain's impatience with his opponent, he described the differences between the two candidates on energy policy.
 ''By the way, my friends, I know you grow a little weary of this back and forth: there was an energy bill on the floor of the Senate, loaded down with goodies, billions for the oil companies, and it was sponsored by Bush and Cheney he said. ''You know who voted for it? You might never know.''
 He cast his arm at Mr. Obama. ''That one,'' he said. ''You know who voted against it? Me.''
 Mr. Obama appeared well-prepared to parry Mr. McCain's criticisms, matching him statistic for statistic as they argued over domestic and foreign policy.
 ''Senator McCain and I actually agree on something,'' Mr. Obama said ''He said a while back that the big problem with energy is that for the last 30 years politicians in Washington haven't done anything. What McCain doesn't mention is he's been there 26 of them and during that time he voted 23 times against alternative fuels.''
 At another point, Mr. McCain criticized Mr. Obama as saying he would speak, without preconditions, to the leaders of countries like Pakistan, quoting Theodore Roosevelt -- at first incorrectly -- explaining the way he would deal with leaders of foes.
 ''You know, my hero is a guy named Teddy Roosevelt,'' he said. ''Teddy Roosevelt used to say walk softly -- talk softly, but carry a big stick. Senator Obama likes to talk loudly.''
 Mr. Obama raised his hand to respond as the moderator, Tom Brokaw of NBC News struggled to hold the two men to the restrictive rules they had agreed. 
 Mr. McCain again seemed particularly comfortable when the questioning turned to foreign policy, suggesting that his opponent was inexperienced and lacked judgment in issues like how to deal with Pakistan. Four times, Mr. McCain invoked Gen. David H. Petraeus, who now oversees the military command for both Iraq and Afghanistan and was an early proponent of sending more troops to Iraq.
 As he did a number of times during the evening, Mr. Obama sought to counter the line of argument Mr. McCain had also stressed during their first debate, that Mr. Obama was unschooled in matters of national security.
 ''Senator McCain suggests that somehow, you know, I'm green behind the ears and, you know, I'm just spouting off, and he's somber and responsible,'' he said. ''Senator McCain, this is the guy who sang, 'Bomb, bomb, bomb Iran,' who called for the annihilation of North Korea. That I don't think is an example of 'speaking softly.' ''
 Throughout the evening, when Mr. McCain spoke, Mr. Obama stood at the side of the stage, or seated on a chair, arms folded, gazing at his rival. When Mr. Obama spoke, Mr. McCain took notes, often looked the other way, or scribbled on a pad.
 The debate occurred on a day when the stock market dropped more than 500 points. And if there was a single question overlying the debate, it was how tough Mr. McCain would be in his attacks against Mr. Obama, at a time when his campaign had promised a new round of attacks, and Ms. Palin had urged her running mates to take his gloves off, as she put it.
 That said, it was never going to be easy, speaking before an audience of 80 voters, to offer the kind of attacks on Mr. Obama that Ms. Palin has been delivering to screaming partisan crowds for the last several days. The audience at the debate again and again conveyed in their questions an anxiety about the economy and the direction of the nation. 
 Even Mr. McCain's use of humor -- a central part of his appeal in his own town hall meetings -- did not seem that effective. At one point he joked about how health care plans probably should not pay for hair transplants, a remark that did not seem to draw more than a titter.
 At another point, both men declined to say whether they thought the economy would get worse before it got better.
 Mr. McCain repeatedly portrayed Mr. Obama as liberal and a big spender who would raise taxes, producing a series of by now familiar back-and-forths about each other's tax cuts plans and spending records.
 ''This is the most liberal, big spending record in the United States Senate,'' he said, adding at another point: ''He wants to raise taxes. My friends, the last president to raise taxes during tough economic times was Herbert Hoover.''
 Mr. McCain sought to blame Mr. Obama for the crisis in the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac housing agencies, saying that Mr. Obama ''and his cronies'' had failed to speak out when the organizations began making the risky loans that he argued were at the heart of the financial crisis.
 ''Fannie and Freddie were the catalyst, the match that started this forest fire,'' he said. ''There were some who stood up against it. There were others who took a hike.'' 
 Mr. Obama nodded disapprovingly. ''Now, I've got to correct a little bit of Senator McCain's history, not surprisingly,'' he said ''Let's, first of all, understand that the biggest problem in this whole process was the deregulation of the financial system.
 ''Senator McCain, as recently as March, bragged about the fact that he is a deregulator.''
 The debate provided the most intimate encounter the two candidates have shared in the course of the campaign. On nearly every question, both men left their stools, with microphones in hand, and walked across the red-carpeted stage to speak directly to the audience.
 At one point, Mr. Obama said to a questioner, ''Oliver, let me tell you what's in the rescue package for you.'' To the same man, Mr. McCain said: ''Well, thank you, Oliver. That's an excellent question.''
 Mr. McCain had originally proposed that the two men engage in a series of town hall meetings across the country over the summer. Mr. Obama at first signaled interest in that, but, after what appeared to be a fitful round of negotiations, that effort fell apart amid clear indications that Mr. Obama did not share the same passion for the event
 Mr. McCain made mention of that the moment he took the stage. ''Senator Obama, it's good to be with you at a town hall meeting,'' he said. Mr. Obama let that pass.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senators John McCain and Barack Obama debated Tuesday night in a town hall format at Belmont University in Nashville. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
In their second debate, Senators John McCain and Barack Obama responded Tuesday night to questions asked by the audience at Belmont University in Nashville and submitted over the Internet.
 Audience members holding questions to ask the nominees. Eighty voters were selected to attend. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); DEREGULATION (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); HOMEOWNERS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); SARAH PALIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



329 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS FALL MORE DESPITE FED'S HINT IT WILL CUT RATES

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Mr. Andrews reported from Washington and Mr. Grynbaum from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The promise of lower interest rates and new federal efforts to stem the financial crisis failed to dispel the fear gripping Wall Street on Tuesday. 
 Stocks rose at the session's opening but soon began to fall, and the selling intensified during the afternoon, even after Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, all but pledged to cut interest rates by the end of the month. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 508 points, or 5.1 percent, extending a slide of months that has erased a third of its value in a year. In the last five trading days alone, the Dow has lost 1,400 points. 
 With the flow of credit still tight, investors have fixated on the threat of a serious recession despite the increasingly urgent attempts by policy makers to buttress the markets. Deepening problems in the European banking industry have compounded fears of a worldwide downturn. 
 ''The Fed is just plugging holes in the dam and the water keeps rushing over,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at the research firm MKM Partners. 
 In a somber speech, Mr. Bernanke acknowledged that the financial turmoil of the last several weeks had forced the Fed to downgrade its already gloomy economic forecast for the remainder of this year and reconsider holding its benchmark rate steady.
 ''Over all, the combination of the incoming data and recent financial developments suggests that the outlook for economic growth has worsened and that the downside risks to growth have increased,'' Mr. Bernanke told members of the National Association for Business Economics. 
 ''In light of these developments, the Federal Reserve will need to consider whether the current stance of policy remains appropriate,'' he added -- his strongest indication to date that the Fed will cut rates. 
 Fed policy makers are scheduled to meet on Oct. 28 and 29, and investors had already been betting that the central bank would reduce the overnight federal funds rate by as much as one-half of a percent, to 1.5 percent. But many analysts predict the Fed may act before the next meeting, given the sprawling nature of the credit crisis. 
 In its latest tactic, the Fed announced on Tuesday morning a new program to buy up parts of the short-term financing market to unlock the flow of credit to businesses. The program, which is expected to begin soon, was the latest and potentially biggest in a series of unprecedented efforts by the Fed to combat the worst turmoil that financial markets in the United States have endured since the Great Depression. 
 ''These are momentous steps,'' Mr. Bernanke said, ''but they are being taken to address a problem of historic dimensions.''
 Only a few weeks ago, the Fed's official posture was that the risk of rising inflation was almost as big a concern as the risk of slowing growth and rising unemployment.
 But on Tuesday, Mr. Bernanke said the outlook for inflation had ''improved somewhat'' and made it clear that worries about a recession had now trumped worries about rising prices.
 While he noted that energy and commodity prices, a significant burden on American consumers, had declined from their recent peaks, he painted a bleak picture of an economy stalling on multiple fronts. The housing collapse has yet to abate, and the slowdown has now spread to other parts of the economy. Unemployment has been rising, household purchasing power has been eroded by inflation and consumer spending, adjusted for inflation, has been falling since May.
 Mr. Bernanke made it clear that the latest round of market turmoil would depress growth for the rest of the year. He said he hoped for a gradual recovery in 2009.
 President Bush, trying to sound a note of reassurance, said on Tuesday that the $700 billion financial rescue passed by Congress last week was ''bold and necessary'' and would eventually work to ease the credit crunch. But he warned that the plan would ''take time.''
 ''We'll work through this,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We're taking aggressive steps. And it's not an easy problem, no question about it. But I am -- I am confident in the long term for this country. I'm confident that the steps we've taken are bold and necessary.''
 Earlier in the day, Mr. Bush spoke by phone with European leaders, including Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who has proposed an emergency meeting of the so-called Group of 8 leaders of industrialized nations. The White House said Mr. Bush was open to Mr. Sarkozy's idea.
 But the question for Wall Street is why none of these extraordinary, precedent-shattering efforts have stanched the selling that has infected the market for five straight days.
 ''You are getting all the things that you would think the equity markets would respond very favorably to,'' said Steve Sachs, director of trading at Rydex Investments. ''But at this point it just doesn't seem to be doing it. It's the attitude of 'sell' -- regardless of what the news is.''
 Although investors fled stocks, there were signs on Tuesday that the Fed's latest plan did have a positive impact on the troubles in the credit market. The cost to borrow commercial paper overnight fell significantly, and yields on Treasury bills rose, a sign that investors were more willing to leave the safe haven of government notes.
 But the Dow, which had lumbered downward from early in the session, accelerated its losses in the final hour and ended down 508.39 points, breaking below the 9,500 mark to close at 9,447.11. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell by 5.7 percent, ending below 1,000 for the first time in five years.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury bill fell 14/32, to 104 3/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.50 percent, up from 3.45 percent late Monday.
 Shares of banks and financial firms shouldered the biggest losses by far, with Bank of America, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley all losing about 25 percent.
 Fears about the health of the banking industry were stoked by a disappointing earnings report from Bank of America, which had been perceived as one of the few winners in the current crisis. The bank cut its dividend on Monday and said profits fell sharply.
 Late in the afternoon, rumors flew across trading desks that a financing deal between Morgan Stanley and a Japanese bank had fallen through. Shares of Morgan fell more than 30 percent before officials at the bank reassured investors that the deal was, in fact, still on track. 
 In a sign of how the credit crisis is affecting ordinary Americans, the amount of credit provided to consumers in August dropped for the first time since 1998. Consumer credit declined by $7.9 billion, the biggest monthly drop in more than half a century, according to the Fed.
 ''Nobody trusts anybody right now,'' said Ryan Detrick, an analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research.
 Others said the market could start to recover when credit starts to flow again. But as long as businesses are forced to scramble for cash -- and even states like California and Massachusetts have approached the federal government for billions in loans -- the economy will only worsen. That brings the prospect of a deep recession.
 ''There's a realization that this problem is much bigger than anyone had thought,'' said T. J. Marta, a strategist at Royal Bank of Canada. ''There's a fear that the Fed can't get its arms around it.''
 Asian stock markets were moving sharply lower in early trading on Wednesday in response toWall Street's losses. The Nikkei 225 index fell in Tokyo soon after the opening of trading, after the Bank of Japan added nearly $15 billion to the financial system. 
 The Standard and Poor's/Australian Stock Exchange 200 Index dropped 4.3 percent in early trading on Wednesday morning, more than erasing a gain of 1.7 percent on Tuesday, when Australia's central bank unexpectedly cut interest rates by a full percentage point. 
 James Chirnside, who manages $65 million at Asia Pacific Asset Management in Sydney, said that investors feared corporate profits would fall and many companies would fail if banks did not resume lending soon. He recommended a coordinated round of interest rate cuts by central banks to unfreeze interbank lending markets.
 ''Without that sort of global coordination, we'll still be hostage to these violent moves in the market,'' Mr. Chirnside said. 
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of 79-day cash management bills and 4-week bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tuesday's speech by Ben Bernake, the Federal reserve chairman, was shown on the New York Stock Exchange trading floor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A23) CHARTS: DOW INDUSTRIALS (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.A1)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) (pg/A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



330 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Ignoring Reality Has a Price

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Thirty billion dollars to keep Bear Stearns from collapsing. Another $85 billion for A.I.G. Hundreds of billions, here and there, lent to banks. 
 All told, the Federal Reserve has pumped $800 billion into the financial system, Ben Bernanke, its chairman, estimated on Tuesday. That figure doesn't include the untold sum that the Fed now plans to spend buying short-term debt so that companies can continue to pay for their daily operations. And it doesn't include any of the money the Treasury Department is laying out, like the $700 billion bailout fund or the $200 billion that could be spent propping up Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 After 14 months of crisis, the federal government -- meaning you and me -- has put serious money on the line. As a point of comparison, the entire annual federal budget is about $3 trillion. 
 Just how are we going to pay for all this? 
 The short answer is that the budget problems the country seemed to have a year ago are now even worse. Next year's deficit (relative to the economy's size) will probably be the biggest since 1992, and maybe since 1983. Taxes will have to rise or government spending will have to fall, if not both. Trying to contain the mess created by a bubble no doubt costs serious money. 
 Yet this is also a case in which the short answer isn't the full answer, or even the best answer. 
 As expensive as the damage control may be, it isn't likely to cost near as much as the headline numbers suggest. More to the point, the alternative -- not spending some serious money to deal with the crisis -- would probably end up costing a lot more. As it is, the various bailouts are not the main reason next year's deficit is growing. The deteriorating state of the economy is.
 So if you want to conjure up some doomsday stories about the federal budget, I'm happy to play along (and will do so momentarily). But those stories aren't mainly about the credit crisis. They're about the dangers of ignoring economic realities -- which, when you think about it, is how we ended up in this credit crisis in the first place. 
 The most newsworthy part of Mr. Bernanke's lunchtime speech on Tuesday was his sober overview of the economy. He called the financial crisis ''a problem of historic dimensions'' and indicated that the Fed would soon cut its benchmark interest rate once again. 
 But the bulk of the speech was a catalog of the extraordinary steps that the Fed and Treasury had taken since August and the delicate line they had tried to walk along the way. They have lent enormous amounts of money to banks and trumpeted those efforts to try to restore some confidence to the credit markets. Fed officials have pointed out that they are nowhere close to being out of bullets either. They work for the central bank, after all. They can always print money.
 But Mr. Bernanke and the Treasury secretary, Henry Paulson, have also emphasized that they're not being too generous. They are mainly making loans and investments, and they expect to recoup much of the money they're spreading around. 
 Outside the government, economists differ about whether Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson have been too aggressive or not aggressive enough and whether they have been aggressive in the right ways. But there is not much concern that they are taking on additional debt -- or even about the amount of it.
 ''The policy actions are not likely to have a large effect on the budget over the next five or 10 years,'' Douglas Elmendorf, who has become a go-to Democratic economist during the crisis, told me. John Makin, of the conservative American Enterprise Institute, added: ''The last thing I'm worried about right now is additional government indebtedness. There really isn't an alternative.''
 Mr. Makin pointed out that during Japan's long malaise, the government passed a stimulus package almost every year that was equal to more than 2 percent of the country's gross domestic product (equivalent to about $400 billion in this country today). But interest rates in Japan remained low, a sign that economic weakness, not deficits, was still the problem. 
 That being said, today's ever-expanding bailouts do create some dangers. You've probably heard the term moral hazard, which is shorthand for the idea that government rescues may lead investors to take new, unwise risks -- and ultimately require yet more rescues.
 The Fed is also setting itself up for tough decisions about when to end its various emergency programs. If it waits too long, it could leave so much money sloshing around the economy that inflation will take off. Fed officials have suggested they understand that they made precisely this mistake after the 2001 recession, when they kept interest rates low and added to the mania in the housing market.
 Finally, there is the net cost of the bailouts, which may well be bigger than Mr. Bernanke has acknowledged. Under the new program announced Tuesday, the Fed will own the commercial paper that serves as short-term loans for companies. If some of those companies go bankrupt, the Fed could suffer some losses. 
 The Treasury's $700 billion bailout fund, meanwhile, is based on the premise that investors are collectively undervaluing assets and that the government can pay above current market prices without losing much money. ''One has to be at least a bit skeptical,'' the economist Greg Mankiw says, ''about the idea that government policy makers gambling with other people's money are better at judging the value of complex financial instruments than are private investors gambling with their own.'' 
 After talking with budget analysts, I think it's reasonable to assume that the bailouts will end up costing several hundred billion dollars, spread over several years. Perhaps $100 billion of that cost may come next year. Add in another $100 billion or so for the weakening economy -- specifically the fall in tax revenue, increases in spending on social programs and the possibility of another stimulus package.
 Even before the crisis, the Bush administration was set to bequeath a $550 billion deficit to its successor. Now, a better estimate appears to be $750 billion -- or 5 percent of gross domestic product. The only years since the 1960s that the deficit has been nearly so large were the early 1990s (almost 4.5 percent of G.D.P.) and the mid-1980s (with a peak of 6 percent in 1983).
 Obviously, next year's deficit is a problem. And if you assume the credit crisis isn't about to lift -- which seems smart at this point -- the ultimate cost of the bailouts could conceivably go higher. Whatever the final figure, it should still be put in some context. 
 Despite everything, the biggest fiscal problem remains, far and away, health care. Based on the rate that medical spending has been rising, the Congressional Budget Office forecasts that Medicare and Medicaid will take up 10 percent of G.D.P. within two decades, up from about 4 percent now. In today's terms, that would be the equivalent of adding at least $900 billion to the deficit every single year, in perpetuity. It makes the cost of the bailouts look like a rounding error. 
 When it comes to health care, we have a situation that is blatantly unsustainable. With the right choices, we can prevent that. But so far, we instead seem to be hoping that the situation will magically resolve itself, which is a recipe for big problems and perhaps even a crisis.
 Let's see. That doesn't sound familiar, does it? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke, Federal Reserve chairman, called the financial crisis ''a problem of historic dimensions'' and indicated that the Fed would cut its interest rate again.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (70%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



331 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Gates, in Kosovo, Highlights U.S. Balancing Act on Russia

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Kosovo 

 BODY:
The United States will maintain its troop presence in Kosovo until at least late next year, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said on Tuesday, underlining American support for the country, which declared independence in February in defiance of Serbia and Russia.
 Mr. Gates's visit was the first by a United States cabinet member since Kosovo's independence declaration and the first here of an American defense secretary since 2001. At a time when Russia has been seeking to assert its political and economic clout in the Balkans and the Caucasus, Mr. Gates's presence served to reinforce American intentions in the region. 
 His arrival began a week of meetings with European defense ministers, during which the United States is expected to reassure allies in the former Communist bloc about their prospects for joining NATO and the West, even as Russia seeks to show former Soviet republics and satellites that doing so comes at a price. 
 Mr. Gates said that the United States wanted to balance the need to show Russia that its war with Georgia in August had altered Russian-American relations, with an effort to keep avenues open for cooperation on significant issues like Iranian nuclear proliferation. 
 ''We have to figure out the right path in terms of the reality that we have to do business with Russia on important issues,'' he said, ''but at the same time convey the message that it can't be business as usual after what happened in Georgia.'' 
 After meeting with Prime Minister Hashim Thaci and President Fatmir Sejdiu, Mr. Gates pledged to maintain the level of American troops in Kosovo, where the United States has about 1,600 soldiers, part of a 16,000-member NATO peacekeeping force. He also said the United States would continue to provide Kosovo with military equipment and training. 
 The pledge of support was enthusiastically received in Kosovo, a pro-American country where a main street is named after Bill Clinton, and above a hotel is a copy of the Statue of Liberty. 
 Still, the conflict between Russia and Georgia casts a shadow. After the brief war, Russia recognized Georgia's two breakaway enclaves, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, as independent. The Kremlin said Western support for Kosovo had given it the moral and legal right to do so. 
 Some analysts contend that the events in Georgia have undermined Western diplomacy in Kosovo by giving credence to those who argued that Kosovo's independence would spur other secessionist movements in Europe and beyond. A recent report by the International Crisis Group, a research organization, said the European Union and the United States were ''struggling to come to terms with Russia's attempts to portray its support for breakaway regions in Georgia as a mirror image of what they did in Kosovo.'' 
 At the same time, Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leadership is showing increasing concern about Serbia's attempt to expand its influence over the administration of the Serbian-dominated northern part of the country, which threatens to effectively partition the country. 
 Already, dozens of Serbian police officers have abandoned Kosovo's multiethnic police force and pledged allegiance to Serbia, while Serbia and Kosovo's Serb authorities have made clear that European Union police officers deployed in Kosovo will be unwelcome in the north. 
 Mr. Gates was emphatic that the United States opposed partitioning Kosovo. ''I do not believe partition is a solution now or at any time in the future,'' he said. ''The United States supports the territorial integrity of Kosovo.'' 
 Kosovo's fragile independence could suffer a psychological blow on Wednesday, in a vote scheduled at the United Nations on a Serbian challenge to the legality of Kosovo's independence. Serbia is seeking permission from the United Nations to request an opinion from the International Court of Justice in The Hague, which would be nonbinding but symbolic. So far, only 47 of the 192 members of the United Nations have recognized Kosovo's independence, and Serbia is confident that it will obtain the simple majority it needs to seek the court's legal opinion. 
 Vuk Jeremic, the Serbian foreign minister, expressed his hope in a recent interview that if the case were sent to the International Court of Justice, other countries would be discouraged from recognizing Kosovo, and nations that had recognized Kosovo would reconsider. 
 Kosovo's stability has also been undermined by the question of which international organization has authority to supervise the territory. Kosovo's new Constitution calls for the European Union to assume an oversight role now exercised by the United Nations. But Serbia and Russia insist that this would be illegal because it has not been approved by the United Nations Security Council, and they have moved to block it. The result, analysts said, is a messy patchwork of overlapping institutions that threatens to create a security vacuum. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates received a briefing on Tuesday in a visit with United States Army forces in Gjilan, Kosovo. (POOL PHOTO BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (93%); BILL CLINTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); SERBIA (96%); KOSOVO (95%); GEORGIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2008



332 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(In Transit)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2008

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: American Cinema goes to the Mall in Moscow

BYLINE: SOPHIA KISHKOVSKY


HIGHLIGHT: The 3rd American Film Festival in Moscow is taking place at an interesting time, with Russian-American relations at a longtime low. Undeterred, the festival organizers -- including the U.S. Embassy's cultural affairs division -- have optimistically titled the event: "New Images of America." 

 BODY:
The 3rd American Film Festival in Moscow is taking place at an interesting time, with Russian-American relations at a longtime low. Undeterred, the festival organizers -- including the U.S. Embassy's cultural affairs division -- have optimistically titled the event: "New Images of America."
The location might provoke a double take too: The massive Yevropeisky shopping mall - in Russia they're called trade centers (www.europe-tc.ru) -- next door to Moscow's Kievsky vokzal, or train station, on the banks of the Moscow River. The mall has over 400 stores, a spa, and a rooftop skating rink and nightclub, and bills itself as the largest urban mall in Europe. The central atrium is called Moskva, the other four are named after Paris, Rome, Berlin and London.
This combination of cinema and shopping, if unconventional, has much to recommend it. 
This year's festival runs October 8-12, with public screenings starting on October 9. Highlights include a chance to see Clint Eastwood's "Changeling," starring Angelina Jolie, on October 12, three months before its Russian release. Other premiers include "Lakeview Terrace," Neil LaBute's take on race relations, and David Mamet's "Redbelt." For nostalgia fans, this year's festival offers up Hollywood classics, with the focus this year on great screenwriters of the 1930s-40s.
There's also a good selection of independent films from recent years and a documentary film program curated by Robin Hessman, an American film maker who studied at VGIK, the Russian state film school. This year's retrospective showcases the documentary films of Ross McElwee. Amfest (www.amfest.ru) as it's known for short, is a favorite of Moscow cinephiles, who have been feeling a bit out of sorts since their art house home, the Film Museum, was pushed out of its permanent quarters.
The sophisticated festival of fine cinema has landed here at the Yevropeisky mall, in part because it has a luxurious multiplex, Formula Kino. Now, I usually find malls depressing. But this one actually deserves some exploration: Yevropeisky is a window onto Russian consumerism, and it's brought much needed cachet to its once seedy neighborhood. 
I paid my most recent visit last Sunday evening, and was shocked to find that the financial crisis, which has resulted in an actual stock market crash in Russia, has done nothing to thin the rank of shoppers here. The mall was packed and Russians were shopping -- as always -- until they dropped. The mall is open until 10 p.m., and on Fridays and Saturdays until 11 p.m.
So...Before, after or in between screenings, head to the mall's food court, which offers a varied selection, from sushi, to blini to quiche. There are also independent restaurants, from the inexpensive Grabli, with its artificial orange trees and fine river view, to Goodman (www.goodman.ru), an upscale steakhouse.
If you need some air after the movies and mall walking, take a stroll along the pedestrian bridge that runs over the Moscow River from Ploshchad Evropy (Europe Square), to the increasingly upscale Plyushchikha neighborhood on the other bank, known as Moscow's Serebyanaya Milya, or Silver Mile. Grab some tasty French pastries at the Brioche kiosk on that end - I was amazed to find tarte tropezienne there recently. 
As you're walking back towards the mall, notice the staircase leading down to the metro -- you might even think you've been transported to Paris. The once bland staircase is now framed by a Parisian wrought-iron art nouveau entrance, thanks to a cooperation agreement between the Moscow Metro and the Paris Transport Authority. (A less happy observation: this is also steps from where Paul Tatum, an American businessman, was gunned down in 1996.)
In the theater or out, it all seems like a movie.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (94%); FILM (93%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); FILM SCHOOLS (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); RETAILERS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (60%); RACE & RACISM (51%); WRITERS (50%) Festivals; Movies; Travel and Vacations; Moscow (Russia); Food and Drink; Globespotters; Moscow

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (70%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (58%); ANGELINA JOLIE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%) Moscow (Russia)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012



333 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: In Russia, Stock Markets Struggle Just to Stay Open

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
At what point is a stock market no longer a functioning stock market?
 Every day this week, regulators have had to halt trading on Russia's main bourses, the world's hardest-hit stock markets during the current crisis. 
 They closed the RTS and Micex exchanges three times on Monday -- and the RTS still managed to lose 19.1 percent, its worst day. Trading reopened at 1 p.m. on Tuesday, and on Wednesday, it was suspended after shares collapsed 14 percent in the first hour. 
 Regulators said the Micex would reopen on Friday; the RTS was suspended indefinitely. 
 At issue are two problems. First, Russian companies used shares as collateral to borrow an untold amount of money. Second, the market decline is forcing a spiral of margin-call selling. 
 ''It's a little embarrassing for Russia,'' Rory MacFarquhar, an economist at Goldman Sachs's office here, said of the daily market closures. 
 Though the closures sow growing doubt among investors, the larger problem is the leveraging, which has revealed a fundamental and central flaw in the Russian market. 
 If mortgage-backed securities are the toxic asset in the United States, loans backed by shares are the problem in Russia. A bailout package of more than $200 billion by the Kremlin of loans and tax cuts has failed to stanch the sell-off. 
 ''Russia does have its own problem now,'' Mr. MacFarquhar said.
 Indonesia, Ukraine and Romania also closed their exchanges on Wednesday, and a rate cut by six big central banks failed to reverse a global rout in stocks. 
 The Standard & Poor's index for Russian stocks has fallen 53.2 percent this year as of Oct. 3 -- the most of the 30 markets monitored by the S.& P.'s emerging-markets index. The second-biggest drop was in Indian stocks, which fell 51.8 percent. 
 Russia's market has fallen further than any other, in spite of trade and budget surpluses, partly because of the unusual ownership structure that took hold after the breakup of the Soviet Union. 
 A few wealthy individuals, known as oligarchs, obtained huge stakes in companies as Russia privatized. In ''loans-for-shares'' auctions in the mid-1990s, they became owners of the big mining and petroleum companies in exchange for small loans to the government.
 In this sense, Russia is in contrast, for example, to the United States, where large companies have a diffuse stockholder base. Typically, oligarchs hold more than 50 percent in the companies they control, with the remaining shares split between domestic and foreign investors. 
 As the market here swooned and commodity prices fell, risk-averse foreign investors pulled out. Russia's war with Georgia and government attacks on private companies also scared away foreign investors. Meanwhile, the oligarchs had, to an unknown degree, pledged portions of their far larger stakes as collateral for loans. 
 As the smaller investors left and the market dropped, banks made margin calls. The fear is that now the shares that had been locked in the core holdings of the oligarchs will flood the market, at a time when there are no buyers. Just on Tuesday, regulators introduced more sweeping power to suspend trading on the stock exchanges to halt margin-call selling. 
 Unless trading is closed permanently, however, this measure will not solve the underlying problem. 
 ''At some point, you must let market forces take their course,'' Michael Kavanagh, a metals sector analyst at UralSib bank, said. 
 Also on Tuesday, President Dmitri A. Medvedev said he would submit a bill to the Duma that he said would simplify the rules for the seizure of collateral by creditors, which might encourage new lending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Micex exchange on Wednesday. Trading was suspended after shares fell 14 percent in an hour, and it is to reopen Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXIM SHIENKOV/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUSPENSION OF TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK SPLITS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); PRIVATIZATION (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



334 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Supermarket Cheated Workers, State Says

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The top two executives at an Associated supermarket in Brooklyn were arrested on Wednesday on charges that they had cheated workers out of more than $300,000 and had falsified business records that they gave to state officials.
 Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo said the executives paid no wages to supermarket baggers -- who received only tips -- and paid a weekly salary of $300 to other employees who worked 70-hour weeks; the pay rate breaks down to $4.29 an hour, far less than the state's minimum wage of $7.15 an hour.
 State officials said the two executives, Bienvenido Nunez and Martin Duran, the president and vice president of the Associated supermarket at 229 Knickerbocker Avenue in Bushwick, surrendered on Wednesday morning to investigators in Mr. Cuomo's office. 
 They pleaded not guilty when they were arraigned in Kings County Criminal Court on Wednesday afternoon. 
 Gisele Kalonzo, a lawyer for the supermarket and the two executives, said: ''They maintain their innocence. They're not guilty as charged, and the facts will bear that out over the course of time.''
 Tomacina Nunez, a bagger at the store since 2004, said that she often worked 11-hour days, and that she received $12 or $14 in tips some days, and as much as $30 other days. 
 In addition to the criminal charges, Mr. Cuomo's office filed a civil lawsuit demanding that the supermarket pay $600,000 in back wages and penalties for more than 30 workers who received inadequate pay from 2004 to 2006.
 ''Our New York City work force must be paid for every hour they work, and my office is committed to tracking down the deceitful employers who swindle them, as well as getting every hard-earned penny back to the employees who earned them.'' Mr. Cuomo said in a prepared statement. 
 The attorney general also accused the supermarket of giving the state falsified business records, specifically a separate set of payroll records showing that most of its employees worked no more than 40 hours a week. Mr. Cuomo said his office had evidence that ''every worker worked overtime for most weeks.''
 The two executives were also charged with filing false documents with the State Unemployment Insurance Fund, saying the supermarket employed fewer workers than it actually did, to cut down on unemployment insurance taxes the market was supposed to pay. 
 Complaints of wage violations were brought to the attention of Mr. Cuomo's office by a workers' advocacy group in Bushwick, called Make the Road New York, and the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. Most of the supermarket's employees are Hispanic immigrants.
 The two executives were charged with falsifying business records in the first degree and offering a false instrument for filing in the first degree, felonies punishable by up to four years in prison. They were also charged with failure to pay wages, a misdemeanor.
 One longtime worker at the supermarket, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of losing his job, said that the store now paid the state's minimum wage for its employees' first 40 hours in a week. 
 Noting that many workers still worked 70-hour weeks, this employee added that many of them did not receive time-and-a-half pay for overtime, as is required. And sometimes, the employee added, they were not paid anything for some of the overtime worked. 
 Nieves Padilla, an organizer with Make the Road New York, said, ''These arrests send a strong signal to abusive employers throughout the state that the days of impunity for inhumane exploitation are over.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); ARRESTS (78%); BACK PAY (78%); OVERTIME (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); FELONIES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); RETAILERS (66%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



335 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Imports Suffering Identity Problems

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
These are times when it's hard to view flashbacks to the final days of the Nixon era -- oil crisis, unemployment, wage and price controls, stagflation -- and not wonder if that's our post-bailout comeuppance.
 So there is nothing escapist about ''Life on Mars,'' which begins on Thursday on ABC, an unusual cop show that is partly set in 1973 and exhumes a raunchier, dirtier, more dangerous New York City, the one depicted in ''Serpico,'' ''Mean Streets'' and, most recently, ''American Gangster.'' And it's the show's back-to-the-future feel, underscored by Harvey Keitel as a tyrannical police lieutenant and Michael Imperioli as a shaggy-haired, smart-mouthed detective, that lifts it above the ordinary and adds Scorsesian pizazz. 
 Pizazz is what's missing from CBS's new drama, ''Eleventh Hour,'' in which Rufus Sewell plays Dr. Jacob Hood, a biophysicist and special adviser to the F.B.I. who is so brilliant that he was considered for a Nobel Prize. Hood is dispatched to solve complex, scientifically baffling cases (human cloning is one) at the 11th hour -- hence the title. 
 Eccentric and unpredictable, Hood is watched over by an F.B.I. agent, Special Agent Rachel Young (Marley Shelton), who serves as his muscle and minder. The show is a little like ''Fringe,'' on Fox, with the benefit of being based on science, not pseudoscience. But unlike the leads of ''Fringe,'' Hood and Young have no chemistry, and neither do Hood and viewers.
 ''Eleventh Hour,'' a Jerry Bruckheimer production in the same vein as the ''CSI'' shows, ''Cold Case'' and ''Criminal Minds,'' is adapted from a British series. So is ''Life on Mars,'' while ''Kath & Kim,'' which also begins on Thursday on NBC, is a copy of a popular Australian sitcom. 
 There's nothing new about television outsourcing. In the 1970s, for example, ''All in the Family'' and ''Sanford and Son'' were based on British forebears. But the imbalance of trade keeps growing; many of the most notable shows of the season are adaptations of foreign series. It may even be the natural evolution, or devolution, of the communications business. The first phase in the rise of Japan's postwar economy was based on imitation (transistor radios, television sets), and it looks as if the first phase in the decline of American hegemony in popular culture is marked by imitation. 
 Not all copycat shows are equally well made, however. What these three series suggest is that the closer an original fits into indigenous American settings and sensibilities, the better. ''Life on Mars'' easily makes the transition from Manchester, England, to New York City -- gritty cop shows with big cars, big guns, chase scenes, kicked-down doors and blaring sirens are an all-American genre, after all. 
 The original ''Eleventh Hour'' starred Patrick Stewart as Hood, and his replacement, Mr. Sewell, is an English actor who adopts an American accent. But the show's conceit -- a highly cultivated, eccentric sleuth solving brainy crimes -- is as British as Sherlock Holmes and Adam Dalgliesh. American variations on the genre are too often paler and less distinctive than the originals. 
 ''Kath & Kim'' suffers from the same identity problem. It stars two very funny actresses -- Molly Shannon, as Kath, a single mother, and Selma Blair as her sullen, spoiled daughter, Kim -- and theirs is a trailer-trash version of ''Absolutely Fabulous,'' celebrating the bond between idiotic women obsessed with romance, shopping and food courts.
 The Australian version is broader, bolder and more callous, gleefully unabashed about sending up lower-class accents and suburban vulgarity; the NBC adaptation tiptoes a little too squeamishly through snobbery and bad taste. ''Kath & Kim'' should be funnier, and could yet be, but the pilot disappoints. 
 The premiere episode of ''Life on Mars,'' by contrast, is strange and exhilarating. Sam Tyler (Jason O'Mara, an Irish-born actor) is a modern-day New York City detective whose partner, Maya (Lisa Bonet), vanishes. After an accident, Sam finds himself transported to the same precinct 25 years earlier, back to the days when police work was done by typewriter, rotary phone and fists -- a time when cops could be cavalier about search warrants, interrogation rules and a suspect's right to a lawyer.
 Sam is welcomed, barely, as a transfer from another precinct. Angry and frightened by his new surroundings, Sam at first thinks it's some kind of joke. When he tells a fellow officer he needs his cellphone, the officer replies, ''You want to sell what?'' 
 Sam is ridiculed by his new colleagues as a head case; his new boss, Lt. Gene Hunt (Mr. Keitel), explains the system by punching him in the stomach. 
 Aesthetically, ''Life on Mars'' is to the 1970s what ''Mad Men'' is to the early '60s -- a drama festooned with vintage artifacts like eight-track tapes, sideburns, wide-collar shirts and episodes of ''Kojak,'' and saturated with music by the Rolling Stones, the Who and David Bowie. 
 Sam doesn't know, and viewers are not told, whether he is in a coma and hallucinating the time travel, or the victim of something even more paranormal, but the settings shift between past and present. Trapped in the past, Sam is desperate to return to 2008 and rescue Maya. 
 While working in 1973, he finds clues to a serial-killer case that could be linked to the one he was pursuing in 2008. His one ally in the squad room is Annie Norris (Gretchen Mol), a smart, aspiring detective who is relegated to errands and paperwork in the Police Women's Bureau. (The New York City police department fully integrated women into the force in 1973 and allowed them on patrols; the cult show ''Police Woman,'' starring Angie Dickinson, had its premiere in 1974.) 
 Annie and Sam have a spark, but the real chemistry is between Sam and Lieutenant Hunt and the other detectives who come to detect some method behind Sam's madness. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harvey Keitel, left, and Jason O'Mara in ''Life on Mars.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC LIEBOWITZ/ABC)
 Marley Shelton and Rufus Sewell in ''Eleventh Hour'' on CBS.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCEL WILLIAMS/WARNER BROTHERS)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); IMPORT TRADE (84%); BAILOUTS (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (71%); BIOLOGY (67%); CLONING (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (51%); HUMAN CLONING (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%)

PERSON: JERRY BRUCKHEIMER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

TITLE: Life on Mars (TV Program)>; Eleventh Hour (TV Program)>; Kath & Kim (TV Program)>; Life on Mars (TV Program)>; Eleventh Hour (TV Program)>; Kath & Kim (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



336 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Young, Black and Republican in New York, Blogging Against the Tide

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
The barbs have become like a soundtrack to Richard Ivory's life: Uncle Tom, sellout, self-hater. Being black and Republican does indeed have its challenges -- especially in New York. And even though the remarks sometimes wear on Mr. Ivory, they mostly seem to have emboldened him.
 Mr. Ivory started a blog, HipHopRepublican.com, four years ago to voice criticism of what he perceived to be the political pigeonholing of blacks. 
 The blog is part of a small but vibrant collection of black Republican sites that have given right-leaning blacks a sense of community during an election in which Senator Barack Obama's candidacy has made their political stance seem particularly unlikely. 
 Indeed, Mr. Ivory, despite being a devout Republican, feels history tugging at his loyalties.
 ''That a country that was founded by slavery could actually elect a black person to be its highest person in office, it's just amazing,'' said Mr. Ivory, 30, who lives in Chelsea and works as a counselor to mentally ill patients.
 It was in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks that Mr. Ivory engaged in politics and became interested in the Republican Party. As a staunch supporter of the Iraq war, he was often the only black person at pro-war rallies, he said.
 At one demonstration in New York in 2004, he recalled, an antiwar protester, who was white, used a racial slur against him, and black demonstrators with the protester kept silent. 
 Mr. Ivory said he was incensed that blacks would ignore such a slur because it was aimed at someone with opposing political views.
 ''There was something annoying about the idea that if you were black, you had to be Democrat,'' Mr. Ivory said. ''The blog started out as a means to vent.'' Beyond his support for the Iraq war, Mr. Ivory considers himself a conservative on economic issues who believes government should help people help themselves. 
 Mr. Ivory recently posted a blog entry about a poll suggesting that one-third of white Democrats held negative views toward blacks. The headline: ''Poll: Dixiecrats Still Democrats???'' 
 More than 20 people regularly contribute essays to his site, Mr. Ivory said, and it gets more than 1,400 hits a day. 
 The site has caught the attention of Senator John McCain's campaign, which invited him to attend the Republican convention, he said. (Mr. Ivory accepted the offer and blogged for The Root, an online magazine affiliated with The Washington Post.)
 Michael Steele, a former Maryland lieutenant governor and a prominent black Republican, said that he regularly reads HipHopRepublican.com. 
 ''It's just refreshing to know that there is this spectrum of opinion out there that exists,'' said Mr. Steele, chairman of Gopac, a group that cultivates Republican candidates. 
 Though Mr. Ivory has succeeded in finding a niche in cyberspace, his message certainly runs counter to what polls of black voters have found. Polls show that likely black voters overwhelmingly support Mr. Obama over Mr. McCain. 
 Several black conservatives also said there was a perception among many blacks that Republicans did not care about them. 
 Even Mr. Ivory is sparring with his conscience. He said he was about 80 percent sure he would vote for Mr. McCain.
 ''I always say my heart is with Obama but my brain is with McCain,'' Mr. Ivory said. ''That sums up the struggle with me.''
 He added: ''The appeal of Barack and Michelle Obama in my life is that when I look at them, I also see members of my family. 
 ''When I see their two daughters, I see my cousins. There is an appeal there -- a personal appeal.''
 Still, Mr. Ivory said that while his site might not win many votes for the Republican Party, it could at least show that political activism among blacks is not monolithic. 
 While some blacks lean conservative on issues like abortion and gay marriage, Web sites like Mr. Ivory's raise issues important to blacks that many Americans are concerned about: health care, affordable housing, the economy, the environment and education. 
 Many black Republicans believe that conservative policies are more beneficial to the black community than liberal policies.
 Mr. Ivory believes that his Web site addresses Republican issues in a way that a black audience can relate to them.
 It is difficult to gauge the size of the black conservative blogosphere, but Michael Bowen, 47, a senior management consultant for a global information technology firm, said it had mushroomed in recent years. Booker Rising, a blog started in 2004 by Shay Riley, a 37-year-old freelance writer from Chicago, is another popular forum for black conservatives.
 The virtual networks are a refuge for conservative blacks who might be reluctant to publicly espouse their views. Other than these Web sites, Mr. Bowen said, ''there's no support for them, there's no place they could go and not be ridiculed.'' 
 Being black and Republican, however, can still be very lonely. Kimberly Brown, 26, a personal trainer in Chicago, said she lost about 100 friends from her MySpace page after she revealed that she was Republican. ''I think it's just ignorant,'' Ms. Brown said of the reaction. 
 The potential for Mr. Obama to make history in November, however, has swayed some conservative blacks. Cleo Brown, 53, who teaches G.E.D. preparation classes in Chelsea, has been a registered Republican since 1994, but said she planned to vote for Mr. Obama. 
 ''I remember that when I was a girl and the civil rights movement was going on, they kept telling me I would never go to college,'' she said, ''not only because I was female, but because I was African-American. And they told me I would never see an African-American president.
 ''The time is upon us and it's really, really inspiring.''
 Lenny McAllister, a 36-year-old Republican political commentator for Fox News in Charlotte, N.C., compared this election to Jackie Robinson's breaking baseball's color barrier in 1947. 
 Back then, Mr. McAllister said, many blacks rooted for the Brooklyn Dodgers because Robinson was on the team. Now, of course, baseball is a far different game. 
 ''We need to be at a point in time where there is such a diverse inclusion of African-Americans that the African-American roots for their favorite team based on their preferences, not based on the existence of one person playing on the ball field,'' said Mr. McCallister, who planned to vote for Mr. McCain.
 Mr. Steele said he believed sites like Mr. Ivory's could help inject greater diversity into the Republican Party.
 ''The only way the party is ever going to be able to gain momentum in the black community is if it understands those issues, embraces them and is ready to speak about them in a genuine way,'' Mr. Steele said. ''The only way to do that is to get the word from black folks. This is one opportunity to do that.''
 Already, Mr. Ivory said, people have gotten jobs with the Republican National Committee through connections made on his Web site. 
 During the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York, Mr. Ivory said, a black friend walking into Madison Square Garden, the convention site, was confronted by a white man who said protesters were not welcome. Mr. Ivory told the man that his friend was a fellow Republican.
 The encounter, he said, underscored why his blog is useful. ''If the party can't reach out to urban people,'' Mr. Ivory said, ''then in some ways we have to take them there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Ivory and Tiffany Shorter, both Republicans, at a meeting in Manhattan. Mr. Ivory started the HipHopRepublican blog.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMIN TALAIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); IRAQ WAR (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); MENTAL ILLNESS (67%); TERRORISM (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MICHAEL STEELE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



337 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: U.S. STUDY IS SAID TO DETAIL CHAOS IN AFGHANISTAN

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A draft report by American intelligence agencies concludes that Afghanistan is in a ''downward spiral'' and casts serious doubt on the ability of the Afghan government to stem the rise in the Taliban's influence there, according to American officials familiar with the document.
 The classified report finds that the breakdown in central authority in Afghanistan has been accelerated by rampant corruption within the government of President Hamid Karzai and by an increase in violence by militants who have launched increasingly sophisticated attacks from havens in Pakistan. 
 The report, a nearly completed version of a National Intelligence Estimate, is set to be finished after the November elections and will be the most comprehensive American assessment in years on the situation in Afghanistan. Its conclusions represent a harsh verdict on decision-making in the Bush administration, which in the months after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks made Afghanistan the central focus of a global campaign against terrorism.
 Beyond the cross-border attacks launched by militants in neighboring Pakistan, the intelligence report asserts that many of Afghanistan's most vexing problems are of the country's own making, the officials said. 
 The report cites gains in the building of Afghanistan's national army, the officials said. But they said it also laid out in stark terms what it described as the destabilizing impact of the booming heroin trade, which by some estimates accounts for 50 percent of Afghanistan's economy.
 The Bush administration has initiated a major review of its Afghanistan policy and has decided to send additional troops to the country. The downward slide in the security situation in Afghanistan has also become an issue in the presidential campaign, along with questions about whether the White House emphasis in recent years on the war in Iraq has been misplaced.
 Inside the government, reports issued by the Central Intelligence Agency for more than two years have chronicled the worsening violence and rampant corruption inside Afghanistan, and some in the agency say they believe that it has taken the White House too long to respond to the warnings. 
 Henry A. Crumpton, a career C.I.A. officer who last year stepped down as the State Department's top counterterrorism official, attributed some of Afghanistan's problems to a ''lack of leadership'' both at the White House and in European capitals where commitments to rebuild Afghanistan after 2001 have never been met. 
 Mr. Crumpton, who was in charge of the C.I.A. teams that entered Afghanistan after the 9/11 attacks but who said he had not seen the draft report, said that Afghanistan was ''bad and getting worse'' and that officials in Washington were just beginning to wake up to the problem.
 ''It's taken them a long time to realize it, but now they know it's pretty grim,'' he said. 
 A National Intelligence Estimate is a formal document that reflects the consensus judgments of all 16 American intelligence agencies. Although the Bush administration has made public the crucial findings from some recent N.I.E.'s on Iraq and terrorism, most remain classified. The assessment on Afghanistan is the first since the Taliban regained strength there beginning in 2006 and launched an offensive that has allowed them to seize large swaths of territory.
 The draft intelligence report was described by more than a half dozen current government officials who had read its conclusions. They spoke on the condition of anonymity because the report remains classified and has not been completed. 
 Richard Willing, a spokesman for the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, which produces the national intelligence assessments, declined to comment for this article. A White House spokesman, Gordon D. Johndroe, also declined to comment on the report's conclusions but said: ''Everyone understands that the current situation in Afghanistan is a tough one. That's why the president ordered additional troops there. That's why we're increasing the size of the Afghanistan Army.''
 Both major presidential candidates, Senators Barack Obama and John McCain, have called for American troop increases in Afghanistan even beyond those the White House has ordered. Mr. Obama has accused the White House of paying too little attention to Afghanistan as it poured the vast bulk of American military resources into the war in Iraq, while Mr. McCain has defended the administration's decision, saying that Iraq remains the more important front in the battle against terrorism.
 In Tuesday's presidential debate, Mr. Obama said he told Mr. Karzai during a visit to Afghanistan in July that the Afghan leader had ''to do better by your people in order for us to gain the popular support that's necessary.''
 ''We have to have a government that is responsive to the Afghan people, and frankly it's just not responsive right now,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 American officials said that intelligence agencies were also working to produce an assessment on Pakistan, and that both were to be completed after next month's elections. They said the draft findings had already begun to influence the recommendations of the White House-led review of Afghanistan policy, which was scheduled to be completed this month but has now been postponed several weeks. 
 The administration is considering whether the United States should devote more effort to working directly with tribal leaders in far-flung provinces, and possibly arming tribal militias, to fight the Taliban in places where Afghanistan's army and police forces have been ineffective. 
 The Bush administration had long resisted making tribal elders a centerpiece of American strategy in Afghanistan. American officials had hoped instead that strong national institutions like the Afghan Army could protect the Afghan population, but the escalating violence this year has forced a reassessment of the value of the tribal system for counterinsurgency operations. 
 ''In order to have an effective counterinsurgency strategy, you need to have strong local governance in the districts and the provinces,'' said a senior State Department official who has been briefed on the report's broad conclusions, and who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
 In a sign of the seriousness of the administration's policy review, the White House's top coordinator for Afghanistan policy, Lt. Gen. Douglas E. Lute of the Army, will lead a team of specialists who will go there to assess the situation, a senior administration official said Wednesday.
 Administration officials say the review is examining how and where the nearly $6 billion in annual American assistance to Afghanistan is being spent; how to improve the effectiveness of small teams of American and European civilians and troops seeded throughout the Afghan provinces to spur economic growth; and how to strike the right balance between taking military action against the Taliban and Al Qaeda in Pakistan and providing more development aid to that country. 
 Senior American commanders have recently been blunt in their assessment of the security trends in the country. ''In large parts of Afghanistan, we don't see progress,'' Gen. David D. McKiernan, the top American officer in Afghanistan, told reporters last week. ''We're into a very tough counterinsurgency fight and will be for some time.''
 It is not just American officials who offer a grim prognosis. A French diplomatic cable leaked to a French newspaper last week quoted the British ambassador to Afghanistan as forecasting that the NATO-led mission there would fail. 
 ''The current situation is bad, the security situation is getting worse, so is corruption, and the government has lost all trust,'' the British envoy, Sherard Cowper-Coles, was quoted as telling the French deputy ambassador to Kabul, who wrote the cable. 
 British officials have said the comments attributed to Sir Sherard were distorted and do not reflect official British policy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Afghan policemen operating in Kandahar Province on Wednesday discovered cans of acid that could be used to make explosives.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLAUDDIN KHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A12) CHART: Money for Two Wars: Dept. of Defense budgets for Afghanistan and Iraq.(Source: Congressional Research Service, report of July 14) Chart details line graph for IRAQ AFGHANISTAN. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ARMIES (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); ARMED FORCES (66%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (63%); HEROIN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



338 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Says Cancer Test Failed to Get Its Approval

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration has told the Laboratory Corporation of America that it is illegally marketing a blood test to detect ovarian cancer, according to a warning letter posted Wednesday on the F.D.A.'s Web site. 
 The test, introduced in June, has raised hopes among women and their doctors because it promises to detect ovarian cancer at an early stage, when it is still treatable. 
 But some outside experts, including the Society of Gynecologic Oncologists, have said the test had not been proved accurate and might cause women to have unnecessary surgeries to remove their ovaries. The F.D.A. itself, in a previous letter to LabCorp, said the test ''may harm the public health.'' 
 In its new letter, which was sent Sept. 29, the F.D.A. said the test, called OvaSure, required agency approval before it could be marketed. 
 Typically, the agency has not regulated tests that are developed and performed by a single laboratory, as opposed to test kits that are sold to hospitals, laboratories and doctors. But the F.D.A. said that OvaSure did not qualify for this exemption because the test was developed at Yale University, not at LabCorp, and the materials for the test were not manufactured by LabCorp.
 Eric Lindblom, a spokesman for LabCorp, said the company was in discussions with the F.D.A. over the next steps. He would not say whether the test would be removed from the market. 
 ''Obviously, we are disappointed about receiving the warning letter,'' Mr. Lindblom said in an e-mail message. LabCorp and Dr. Gil Mor, the lead developer of OvaSure at Yale, have said the test was accurate in studies done so far.
 The F.D.A. has been under pressure to play a greater role in regulating genetic and protein-based tests now entering the market. But executives in the medical diagnostics industry say overregulation could slow innovation and make it economically infeasible to develop such tests. 
 An F.D.A. spokeswoman said the move against OvaSure did not represent a new policy. The agency had taken similar action a year ago against a colon cancer screening test that LabCorp was marketing because the test had not been developed by LabCorp. 
 The OvaSure test measures the level of six proteins in a sample of a woman's blood and calculates a probability that the woman has ovarian cancer. 
 LabCorp is the nation's second largest clinical laboratory company, after Quest Diagnostics. LabCorp shares fell nearly 2 percent to end the day at $60.63. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (92%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (92%); OVARIAN CANCER (90%); APPROVALS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (89%); IN VITRO DIAGNOSTICS MFG (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (89%); IMMUNODIAGNOSTICS (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); COLORECTAL CANCER (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%)

COMPANY: LABORATORY CORP OF AMERICA HOLDINGS (90%); QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: LH (NYSE) (90%); DGX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS621511 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (90%); SIC8071 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (90%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



339 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Korea Aims to End Stigma of Adoption and Stop 'Exporting' Babies

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
Daunted by the stigma surrounding adoption here, Cho Joong-bae and Kim In-soon delayed expanding their family for years. When they finally did six years ago, Mr. Cho chose to tell his elderly parents that the child was the result of an affair, rather than admit she was adopted. 
 ''My parents later died believing that I'd had an affair,'' said Mr. Cho, 48, a civil engineer who has since adopted a second daughter. 
 Now, with South Korea becoming more accepting of adoptive families, Mr. Cho and Ms. Kim feel they can be more open, with relatives and nonrelatives alike. Ms. Kim, 49, attributed the change partly to the growth of other nontraditional families, like those headed by single parents or including foreign spouses. 
 ''We feel attitudes have changed,'' she said.
 Just how much, though, is the critical question as the South Korean government is pushing aggressively to increase adoptions by South Koreans and decrease what officials consider the shameful act of sending babies overseas for adoption. Since the 1950s, tens of thousands of South Korean children have been adopted by foreigners, mostly Americans, because of South Koreans' traditional emphasis on family bloodlines and reluctance to adopt.
 But last year, for the first time, more babies here were adopted by South Koreans than foreigners, as the government announced recently with great fanfare: 1,388 local adoptions compared with 1,264 foreign ones. What is more, South Korea -- which still is one of the top countries from which Americans adopt -- has set a goal of eliminating foreign adoptions altogether by 2012. 
 ''South Korea is the world's 12th largest economy and is now almost an advanced country, so we would like to rid ourselves of the international stigma or disgrace of being a baby-exporting country,'' Kim Dong-won, who oversees adoptions at the Ministry of Health, said in an interview. ''It's embarrassing.''
 To bolster domestic adoptions, the government last year began offering $90 monthly allowances per child for those who adopt children up to 12 years old, as well as more generous health benefits for the children. Even greater health benefits are now given to adopted disabled children. 
 The government also made it easier for South Koreans to adopt. Single people can now qualify, as well as older ones. Until last year, prospective adoptive parents could be no more than 50 years older than the child; now the age gap has been increased to 60 years. In addition, the government has made foreign adoptions more difficult by imposing a five-month waiting period before children can even be considered for overseas adoption. It also increased payments to foster parents to try to keep children inside South Korea longer and increase their chances of being adopted domestically.
 The government's goal has received much media attention and popular support here. But adoption agencies and some adoptive parents and experts say the government's new policies are concerned less with the children's welfare than with saving face. Increasing the age gap and allowing singles to adopt have lowered the standards for domestic adoptions in a way that could be detrimental to the children, they say, even as the government has created unnecessary obstacles to foreign ones. 
 ''The government is hung up on numbers and on South Korea's image,'' said Lee Mira, who oversees domestic adoptions at Social Welfare Society, a private, nonprofit organization that is the second largest adoption agency in South Korea. ''When North Korea taunts South Korea by saying we're selling Korean babies to foreigners, it hurts the pride of South Korea.''
 Since 1958, when South Korea began keeping track of adoptions, 230,635 children have been adopted. About 30 percent were adopted by South Koreans, while 70 percent found homes overseas. Two-thirds of all foreign adoptees ended up in the United States.
 While orphans made up a majority of adopted children in the two decades following the Korean War, children born to unwed mothers have accounted for the largest numbers since then. 
 South Koreans who did adopt tended to hide their children's origins from the children and others. 
 In recent years, adoption agencies have conducted campaigns -- some featuring movie and TV stars -- urging adoptive parents to tell people about how their families were formed in the hopes that more openness would lead to less prejudice. The government's efforts got a boost when some celebrities adopted and went public with the news. 
 Still, many adoptive parents choose not to share how their families were formed, according to adoption agencies, with some engaging in elaborate ruses to pass off the children as their biological sons or daughters.
 A middle-aged couple now living in a suburb of Seoul learned long ago that the husband was sterile. But he was reluctant to consider adopting, unwilling to accept his condition and afraid of the lingering prejudice against adopted children. In a Confucian society that still values bloodlines, where many people keep detailed records of their ancestors, he was worried that adopted children might face difficulties in their careers or with marriage prospects. 
 So when the couple decided to adopt three years ago, they chose to fake a pregnancy, as many adoptive parents here do. The couple moved, and the husband, now 43 and a real estate agent, switched jobs. 
 The wife, an employee at a telecommunications company, began wearing maternity clothes over a special pillow, made by a company recommended by the couple's adoption agency.
 All was going well until a colleague the woman had confided in spilled the secret to a supervisor.
 ''I was so hurt and embarrassed by that experience,'' she said. ''I would like to adopt a second child, if only to go through the experience in a proper manner this time.''
 Given the bias against adoptions, some couples who are initially open become more guarded as their children grow older.
 Yoo Hae-yon, 48, has told relatives and neighbors that his two sons, now 4 years old and 18 months, were adopted. But he has since become worried that the boys will suffer in a society where television shows typically portray adopted children negatively, as schemers who end up damaging families.
 ''My sons haven't been teased yet, but that will be a possibility in elementary school,'' Mr. Yoo said. ''So once they start school, we won't disclose their adoptions. And in junior high school or later on, we'll let them decide.''
 Holt International, a private American adoption agency that has long been South Korea's leading agency, welcomed the government's new financial incentives for families but said that trying to curb foreign adoptions would risk hurting the children least likely to be adopted by South Koreans: older ones; the disabled, who still face severe discrimination; and boys, who, once preferred by South Koreans, are now considered by many to be less devoted to their parents than daughters. 
 ''The changes could end up postponing the adoption process of those children,'' said Lee Jin-hee, who oversees domestic adoptions at Holt here.
 And Huh Nam-soon, dean of the social welfare department at Hallym University outside Seoul, said changing the standards for domestic adoptions could cause serious problems in the future.
 ''How many of those adopted children will end up in orphanages because of broken adoptions?'' she said.
 Ms. Huh, who has researched the history of South Korean children adopted by Americans, said that, in general, they had found good homes in the United States, even though some struggled with their identities.
 Mr. Kim, the Health Ministry official, acknowledged that the history of American adoption had been largely positive. But he said that the government believed that South Korean children would be happier if adopted by South Koreans and that it would stick to its goal of phasing out foreign adoptions in four years.
 Agencies and adoptive parents said the goal was unrealistic, if only because very few disabled children had been adopted here. Last year, only 40 disabled children were adopted domestically, while 500 went abroad.
 ''We wouldn't feel confident adopting a disabled child since we even felt overwhelmed adopting a healthy one,'' said Kim Chang-shik, 37, who, with his wife, Yoon Yeo-rim, 38, adopted a daughter four years ago, after the birth of their biological son. ''I don't know whether it's because I'm Korean, but I'm grateful that foreigners are willing to adopt children who can't find homes here.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kim Chang-shik, left, and his wife, Yoon Yeo-rim, of Seoul adopted their daughter, Kim Ih-rin, top right, after first having a son, Kim Shi-eon.
 Babies awaited adoptive parents in Seoul, at Holt International, the leading adoption agency in South Korea.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SEOKYONG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOPTION (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); FOSTER CARE (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



340 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M.'s Quarterly Earnings Cast Light in a Darkening Economic Cloud

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Amid the deepening economic anxiety, I.B.M. delivered a dose of reassuring news on Wednesday evening after the close of the stock market. 
 Big Blue, long regarded as a barometer of corporate technology spending, reported its quarterly earnings ahead of schedule and the results slightly surpassed Wall Street's expectations.
 The I.B.M. report, analysts said, might be an early sign that the corporate sector outside of banking is withstanding the turmoil in the financial markets better than had been expected. 
 More evidence is needed, however, before investors will be convinced, they cautioned. While some other technology bellwethers, like Oracle, have said they see little sign of a slowdown, others, like Dell and SAP, have warned that the weakening global economy was hurting their results.
 ''Every bit of sunshine helps here, but the stock market is totally obsessed by the credit crisis,'' said Edward Yardeni, an independent investment strategist. ''But if we start getting better-than-expected numbers from other companies, that could provide a big lift.''
 I.B.M. said its third-quarter net income rose 22 percent, to $2.05 a share, which was 3 cents higher than analysts' consensus estimate, as compiled by ThomsonReuters. 
 On a dollar basis, net income rose 20 percent, to $2.8 billion; the technology giant has been buying back its own shares so its earnings were spread across fewer shares than a year earlier.
 I.B.M., which is based in Armonk, N.Y., made the early announcement of its third-quarter results with an eye on the sinking stock market. 
 The company had been scheduled to report its quarterly sales and profits on Oct. 16. ''But with these market conditions, we thought it was important to get our results out as soon as possible,'' said Edward Barbini, an I.B.M. spokesman.
 In recent days, some Wall Street analysts had been paring back their estimates for I.B.M.'s earnings for the quarter and the remainder of the year, given the deteriorating global economy and its probable impact on I.B.M.'s sales of computer hardware, software and services.
 The company's shares have dropped nearly 18 percent in the last week, and closed at $90.55 Wednesday, down more than 5 percent. After it announced its quarterly results, I.B.M.'s shares gained more than 5 percent, or $5.35, to $95.90 in after-hours trading.
 I.B.M. went beyond saying it did well last quarter. It also reaffirmed its previous guidance for its profits for the entire year, despite the weakening economic outlook in the United States and elsewhere. 
 The company expects to earn $8.75 a share for 2008, a 22 percent increase over 2007.
 In its announcement, the company also noted its solid financial footing, with ample cash flow from its operations and $9.8 billion in cash in the corporate treasury.
 Analysts noted that I.B.M. was well positioned to withstand cyclical swings in business conditions that might batter other companies. Nearly two-thirds of I.B.M.'s revenue is from stable streams of corporate software licenses and longer-term technology services contracts. 
 Today, the majority of I.B.M.'s business is outside the United States, and it has had particular success winning big technology contracts with corporations and government agencies in fast-growing foreign markets like India and China.
 I.B.M.'s revenue growth did slow to 5 percent in the quarter, coming in at $25.3 billion. Excluding currency gains, the revenue growth was 2 percent.
 Still, analysts said that the strong performance in the quarter was impressive. 
 ''This reaffirms the notion that I.B.M. is a safe haven,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. ''There are unique factors at work for I.B.M., but the fact that a company with as broad a reach across so many sectors of the economy as I.B.M. can do this well in this environment has to be viewed positively.''
 In a statement, Samuel J. Palmisano, I.B.M.'s chief executive, said the company's strong portfolio of products and services, investments in emerging markets and sturdy financial foundation work to give the company ''a competitive edge in good times and tough times.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



341 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: The City's Flowery Parks Turn a Danish Group Green

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS

 BODY:
To its natives, New York may seem like a city on the verge of a nervous breakdown. But to a team of Danes from the Copenhagen parks department on a grand tour of New York's best parks this week, everything appeared to be coming up roses. Or at least flowers.
 ''In your parks, you have so many more flowers than we do,'' said Jon Pape, the director of the Copenhagen parks system, gesturing at a spray of buds in Hunts Point Riverside Park in the Bronx. ''This is very expensive.'' 
 In Copenhagen, flowering plants are particularly hard to maintain because pesticides are not used in the public parks. That pesticide-free policy may be the only way that Copenhagen parks could be considered more advanced than New York's, in the opinion of Mr. Pape, whose parents were from the Bronx and Brooklyn. In the typical American mind's eye, a Copenhagen park is a model of symmetry, grooming and order. 
 ''Not at all,'' said Mr. Pape, who brought 14 Danish parks employees and consultants to tour New York's green jewels on Monday and Tuesday. ''No, no, no -- they aren't pristine at all.''
 That Copenhagen could have dirtier parks than New York seems to subvert the natural order of things -- next we'll start hearing that the Danes are also pushier in line and are even more insistent that they get better tables when they eat out.
 But the public-private model of financing for parks that has helped New York's green spaces thrive is a harder sell in Denmark, where high taxes quell spontaneous civic donations. The same goes for the challenge there in involving the community in maintenance, a cornerstone of such beautiful New York oases as Fort Tryon Park.
 ''People feel like, 'I paid such high taxes, you do the work,' '' Mr. Pape explained.
 The Copenhagen visitors said that one of the biggest problems with parks in Denmark was the prevalence of graffiti. Mr. Pape, who saw the graffiti that marred New York's parks in the early 1990s, was flabbergasted to see almost none on this visit.
 ''In Copenhagen, we see it more in the middle-class parks than the ones in very poor neighborhoods,'' he noted.
 Apparently hip-hop culture there, as here, has been adopted as street chic far outside the urban areas where it originated.
 ''Maybe they don't have money for spray paint,'' Mr. Pape said of the young men in less-affluent neighborhoods of Copenhagen. ''Or they have other things on their mind. He said of graffiti: ''In Denmark, there are a lot of officials who believe that it is an art form. They don't want to come down too hard on it. There is no consensus that it is something we should eliminate.''
 After their tour -- Central Park and Morningside Park in Manhattan, Prospect Park in Brooklyn and Barretto Point Park in the Bronx were among the stops -- Mr. Pape and his team decided that they would try to create at least one graffiti-free park in Copenhagen, and measure how much use increased as a result of the cleaner environment (or the art-free environment, as some officials would have it).
 Right now might not seem like the best time for Danish officials to be reaching out for big investments in public-private partnerships, but Mr. Pape said that his country's economy appeared to be weathering the storm pretty well (with a caveat that he had been away from home for two weeks -- two fairly eventful weeks for the world's economy). 
 Steen Bisgaard, a landscape architect in the Danish group, said that of all the parks they visited, he liked Prospect Park best. All the new parks he saw were impressive and creative, he said, but he found there was something about all of that Brooklyn park's ''old trees'' that gave it a remarkable atmosphere.
 ''You really feel that you're going out of the city and into a small paradise,'' Mr. Bisgaard said. ''To build a beautiful park -- that's something that takes time.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A group of Danish parks department officials found the flowers and greenery at Prospect Park in Brooklyn very impressive.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES0 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); VANDALISM (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (91%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); DENMARK (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



342 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: In Flailing Iceland, Disbelief and Regret

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
REYKJAVIK, Iceland -- People go bankrupt all the time. Companies do, too. But countries?
Iceland was on the verge of doing exactly that on Thursday as the government shut down the stock market and seized control of its last major independent bank. That brought trading in the country's currency to a halt, with foreign banks no longer willing to take Icelandic krona, even at fire-sale rates.
As the meltdown in the Icelandic financial system quickened, with the government seemingly powerless to do anything about it, analysts said there was probably only one realistic option left: for Iceland to be bailed out by the International Monetary Fund.
''Iceland is bankrupt,'' said Arsaell Valfells, a professor at the University of Iceland. ''The Icelandic krona is history. The I.M.F. has to come and rescue us.'' 
Prime Minister Geir Haarde, who had warned this week of the threat of ''national bankruptcy,'' said Thursday that Iceland's finance minister, Arni Mathiesen, would be in Washington this weekend for the autumn International Monetary Fund/World Bank meetings. He declined to say whether Iceland was seeking a rescue package from the international lender.
''We will certainly keep this option open, but we have not yet made a decision,'' Mr. Haarde said Thursday at a news conference.
The I.M.F. managing director, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, said in Washington that he had activated an emergency financing system, last used during the Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s, to help countries in crisis. Though not mentioning Iceland by name, he said: ''We are ready to answer any demand by countries facing problems.''
Iceland has approached Russia about a 4 billion euro, or $5.5 billion, loan to help see it through the crisis, but Mr. Haarde said no agreement had been reached.
An I.M.F. intervention in Iceland, which would necessarily involve accepting a series of harsh measures to restore fiscal and monetary stability, would underline the extraordinary reversal in the country's fortunes after a decade-long, debt-fueled binge by the country's banks, businesses and some private citizens. The banks, while avoiding the toxic mortgage securities that have humbled Wall Street, expanded aggressively at home and abroad. When credit tightened and the krona fell this year, they were unable to finance their debts.
In these circumstances, going to the I.M.F. ''is probably the only thing Iceland can do,'' said Richard Portes, an economist at the London Business School.
Events have moved so fast that the full import of national bankruptcy has yet to sink in here. It has happened before, of course, but in places like Argentina and Thailand, not a country that likes to think of itself as close to Europe.
And on an island raked by icy North Atlantic winds and dotted with volcanoes and geysers, where people live with the threat of earthquakes and maritime disasters, few residents seem to be losing their cool over the financial crisis -- yet. But some have suffered deep losses, and others are simply bewildered at how things could have gone so wrong so quickly.
''There is a lot of fear in society and there are people who are losing everything,'' Bubbi Morthens, an Icelandic rock favorite, said Wednesday after singing at an impromptu midday concert in central Reykjavik intended to lift people's spirits.
Like many of his compatriots, Mr. Morthens did well when Iceland was riding high, accumulating considerable wealth. But when the government seized control of Iceland's third-largest bank, Glitnir, last month, Mr. Morthens said he lost his life savings, which he had invested in the bank's stock.
On Thursday, the government seized Kaupthing Bank, the country's largest lender, effectively completing the nationalization of the banking system after the previous takeover of Glitnir and the No. 2 lender, Landsbanki.
Meanwhile trading in the currency froze up Thursday, according to Bloomberg News, citing dealers at Nordea, a big Scandinavian bank. The last trade was made at 340 krona to the euro, Nordea said -- less than half what the Icelandic currency was worth at the start of the week.
Mr. Haarde said the Central Bank of Iceland had set up a special system to handle currency transactions, so that Icelandic companies could conduct international business.
''We are gradually moving through this crisis,'' he said, sounding surprisingly unworried for the leader of a country facing economic and financial disaster. ''There are still a few issues to resolve but that is the nature of these kinds of things.''
Problems with the krona have been at the core of the government's inability to control the crisis. Without a viable currency, there is no way to support the banks, which have done the bulk of their business in foreign markets. There is also no way to bring down inflation or interest rates, both already in double digits before the crisis intensified in recent days.
Mr. Valfells and Mr. Portes said that once the situation is stabilized, the best way forward would be for Iceland is to give up on the krona and adopt the euro instead.
How could Iceland, which is not even a member of the European Union, adopt the currency?
One option would be to simply ''peg'' its currency to the euro. In that case, Iceland would also hand over control of monetary policy, including the setting of interest rates, to the European Central Bank in Frankfurt.
But fixing the currency to the euro could be difficult for Iceland, given that its central bank probably lacks the necessary reserve to defend such a level if the currency were to come under renewed attack, Mr. Portes said.
That leaves another option: applying to join the European Union and adding Iceland to the euro zone. Because Iceland is already part of the European Economic Area, a looser trading bloc, it already abides by many European Union rules.
Still, such a move would be politically challenging. The conservative Independence Party, headed by the prime minister, has been dead set against it. Another member of that party, which is governing in a coalition with the Social Democrats, is the central bank chairman, David Oddsson, a former prime minister.
They are supported by the powerful fishing industry, which mostly wants to stay out of the euro and to keep Europe at a comfortable distance. Fishing has been the focus of many clashes between Iceland and its European neighbors -- most heatedly with Britain, in what became known as the Cod Wars of the 1950s to the 70s. The two countries clashed repeatedly over Iceland's move to extend exclusive fishing rights into waters that had long been trawled by British vessels, too.
Tension with Britain has flared anew during the current crisis. It centers on hundreds of thousands of accounts that Britons hold in online branches of the Icelandic banks; now they fear they will lose their money, and the British government wants Iceland to pay up. The government of Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain has used powers granted under anti-terrorism laws to freeze British assets of Landsbanki until the standoff is resolved.
''We do not consider this to be a particularly friendly act,'' Mr. Haarde said, adding that he had tried to defuse the situation in a telephone call with Mr. Brown on Thursday.
For all the worries, this capital city of 120,000 people still displays the fruits of the decade-long economic boom that followed the deregulation of Iceland's financial sector in the 1990s -- hip cafes, lobster restaurants and stylish shops selling outdoor gear.
But the days when the economy seemed capable of gravity-defying feats are gone. So are the days when investors went on an international buying spree, adding some of the biggest names of the British and American retailing industries to their portfolios. Gone too, are the days when ordinary citizens effortlessly joined in the fun, taking out second mortgages to finance their own trips abroad or at least to the Laugavegur, the main shopping strip in Reykjavik.
''It's difficult; the landscape is very difficult,'' said Franch Michelsen, a watch dealer in central Reykjavik, as he took a break Wednesday from cleaning his shop window.
Some ordinary Icelanders face a similar problem to the one that brought down the banks. In recent months, many mortgages were taken out in foreign currencies -- marketed by the banks as a way to benefit from lower interest rates abroad, as rates in Iceland rose into the double digits.
Now, with the Icelandic krona plunging, homeowners suddenly have to pay back far more expensive euro or dollar values of their mortgages. At the same time, house prices are falling.
The Reverend Karl Sigurbjornsson, the bishop of Iceland, who leads the state-sponsored Lutheran church, says he worries about how the prospect of financial suffering will affect a society that ''was led to believe that it was unlimited growth forever.''
''What will happen when the dust settles?'' he asked. ''A lot of people will be very angry. It will be a challenge for our society.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The value of the Icelandic krona is plunging, and the government ended an attempt to peg its value to other currencies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PALL STEFANSSON/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
The Rev. Karl Sigurbjornsson, leader of the state-sponsored Lutheran church, said he hoped for a return to traditional values.
 In an attempt to lift peoples' spirits, a concert was held outside the offices of Landsbanki, Iceland's second-largest bank, on Wednesday. The bank was nationalized on Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARA KRISTINSDOTTIR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CLOSINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); FOREIGN LENDING (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (91%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) ICELAND (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); THAILAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



343 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Serbia Wins Bid to Review Independence Of Kosovo

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
In an unusual resort to international law, Serbia won a bid on Wednesday to have the International Court of Justice review the manner in which Kosovo declared its independence.
 The vote in the United Nations General Assembly was sharply polarized, with 77 countries supporting Serbia's request, 6 opposed, including the United States, and 76 nations abstaining. 
 Serbia's foreign minister, Vuk Jeremic, said the nonbinding decision from the court ''will serve to reduce tensions in the region and facilitate our efforts at reconciliation'' by transferring the dispute to a judicial arena. Serbia, calling Kosovo a breakaway province, believes that it acted illegally by announcing what Serbia considers a unilateral declaration of independence, and that the court case will make other states hesitate before extending diplomatic recognition.
 The court, based in The Hague, is often called upon to mediate border disputes and the like, but requests from the United Nations for legal rulings are rare. 
 The case of Kosovo's independence will be particularly difficult. While international law recognizes certain formal steps toward independence by former colonies in places like Africa or Latin America, there are no similar guidelines for secession in more established regions like Europe, said Nicolas Burniat, a lawyer who worked for the court for six years and is now with Human Rights First, a nonprofit group that works for human rights. 
 Most European states abstained from voting on the request, with several ambassadors warning Serbia that the initiative would serve only to hobble its entry into the European Union. 
 Noting that 22 of 27 European Union members have recognized Kosovo since it declared independence in February, Sir John Sawers, the British ambassador to the United Nations, said, ''Serbia will need to work constructively with its future E.U. partners.'' 
 Jean-Maurice Ripert, the French ambassador, said the measure ''does not help the necessary easing of tensions.''
 European states could not reach a consensus because several members with separatist tensions of their own, like Spain and Cyprus, want to hear how the court might rule. South Africa noted that while 48 countries had recognized Kosovo, 144 had not, meaning there were plenty of nations that might be influenced by the court's opinion. 
 Rosemary DiCarlo, the American envoy, said, ''Kosovo's independence is irreversible.'' She described the Serbian request as unnecessary and unhelpful. 
 Neighboring Albania, which voted against the measure and has strong ties with Kosovo, accused Serbia of dragging its domestic disputes into the international arena. The high number of abstentions suggested that many agreed, with one senior European diplomat saying that Serbia was trying to reconcile the opposite goals of placating the domestic constituency opposed to independence for Kosovo while still pursuing European Union membership. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (84%); HUMAN RIGHTS FIRST (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (78%) SERBIA (99%); EUROPE (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CYPRUS (79%); FRANCE (79%); AFRICA (79%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



344 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 405 words

 BODY:
U.S. MAY BUY STAKES IN BANKS The Treasury Department is considering buying ownership stakes in banks in the United States as a way to unlock credit system and to try to restore confidence in the financial system. 
 DEFENDER OF DERIVATIVESAlan Greenspan, below, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, has always fiercely supported derivatives. Now, in what he has said is a ''wrenching financial crisis that comes along only once in a century,'' his faith in derivatives remains.[A1.] 
 TOUGH TIMES FOR RETAILERS Some of America's best-known retailers had sales fall by double digits in September. [B1.]
 A BIT OF ADVICE For investors tempted to move to cash right now: the right time to move out of stocks was a year or so ago. Your Money: Ron Lieber. [B1.]
 TEETERING ON BANKRUPTCY With Iceland on the brink of a national bankruptcy, many Icelanders are talking about an epochal change -- but nobody knows what that might mean. [B1.]
 OVERSEEING THE BAILOUTNeel Kashkari, 35, a former Goldman Sachs banker, has been chosen by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. to oversee the $700 billion bailout effort. [B1.]
 MORE HELP FOR A.I.G. The Federal Reserve Board will provide as much as $37.8 billion more to the American International Group to help the insurer deal with a continuing liquidity crisis. [B1.] 
 A RESCUE IN BRITAIN Britain will provide $:50 billion government lifeline ($88 billion) to the nation's banks and said that it would be a quicker solution to the credit crisis than the American bailout. [B7.] 
 Every day this week, regulators have had to halt trading on Russia's main stock exchanges, the hardest hit in the current crisis. [B5.] 
 A RALLY FIZZLES Wall Street watched at 150-point rally disappear in the closing minutes of trading. [B9.] 
 A DEAL ON WACHOVIA?Citigroup and Wells Fargo are negotiating a compromise that would hand the bulk of the troubled Wachovia bank to Wells Fargo, people close to the situation say. [B8.]
 A NEW KIND OF CHARGER Need to charge your cellphone and iPod? Just lay them on a thin device that's about the size of a typical mouse pad. State of the Art: David Pogue. [B1.] 
 MAKING PEACE WITH VISTAMicrosoft Vista can be adjusted to make it more livable, and perhaps even more loveable. [B10.] 
 LESSON FOR SMALL BUSINESSES Christopher Hazlett's struggle through one crisis after another may hold lessons for small businesses caught in the credit squeeze. [B13.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); RETAILERS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (86%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (86%); AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ICELAND (87%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



345 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: A Home in Florida That Nobody Seems to Want

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''This could have been our stadium,'' Eddie Einhorn said he was thinking last week, as he sat in a suite at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was watching his Chicago White Sox lose Games 1 and 2 of the American League division series to the Tampa Bay Rays. 
 ''They're playing in our old place,'' said Einhorn, the White Sox' vice chairman. 
 Almost. Twenty years ago, the White Sox nearly committed to moving to Florida. Local authorities were planning to build a domed stadium in hopes of attracting a major league franchise -- Commissioner Peter V. Ueberroth warned against such audacity -- but in the White Sox they found a willing target to fulfill their dreams. 
 Their ancient home, Comiskey Park, ''was starting to fall apart,'' Einhorn said.
 Thus started one of the great flirtations in (attempted) team relocation history.
 Local government interests craved a major league team and were willing to provide the White Sox with a fully subsidized domed gift, with dandy lease terms. 
 Why wait for baseball to expand if you could get an existing team? 
 ''This would be the first shot for baseball in Florida,'' Einhorn said, except for spring training. He and Jerry Reinsdorf, the White Sox' chairman, were ready to pack up for suburban Addison, Ill., or maybe Denver or Washington.
 But the team stayed put after a midnight vote in July 1988 by the Illinois General Assembly. Lobbying by Gov. James R. Thompson delivered the needed votes for state financing to build a stadium across the street from Comiskey. 
 ''He went down the aisle promising help to downstaters who saw nothing in the stadium for them,'' Einhorn said. 
 So, pork in the Land of Lincoln saved baseball on Chicago's South Side.
 Florida Suncoast Dome (now Tropicana Field) opened in 1990; the Giants nearly left San Francisco for it in 1992. Six years later, the Devil Rays moved in. The White Sox moved into the new Comiskey (now U.S. Cellular Field) in 1991. 
 The Trop is not a lovely place, with its drab insides and slanted roof. It will be the only ballpark with a fixed lid when the Twins move into the new Target Field in 2010.
 ''Hindsight is very good, but that stadium is not very esthetically pleasing,'' Einhorn said ''We don't like a dome. It's not pure baseball. Fans love to see grass.''
 He added: ''I don't know if it would have been the best place for us, but it looked better than what we were being offered in Chicago. We really didn't want to stay on the South Side.''
 Tropicana Field is an antique that does not draw adequate attendance or generate substantial revenues, at least not enough to satisfy ownership. The Rays won the American League East this season with 97 victories after averaging 64.5 over the previous 10. But they drew just over 22,000 fans a game, up from 17,148 last year. 
 The Rays want a new home after only a decade in their current one. In June, they withdrew a plan for voters to decide on a $450 million waterfront ballpark proposal that would have required public financing ($150 million was to come from the team). Now, a coalition of civic leaders and businesspeople is examining other sites in the region.
 ''We stepped back because the obvious political support wasn't there, which was partly a function of the economy, but we began to have questions about the location,'' said Michael Kalt, the Rays' senior vice president for development and business affairs. 
 The economy, with its frozen credit markets, does not favor stadium financing, with or without public money. The Mets and the Yankees were fortunate to have financed their new ballparks, largely with tax-free bonds, long before the current meltdown. 
 ''I'd think that by the time the coalition makes its recommendations, the markets will have stabilized somewhat,'' Kalt said. ''If our deal is not financeable in two or three years, we have more problems than finding money for a stadium.'' 
 The Rays are bound to their lease through 2027, but by 2016 the penalties for early termination are significantly reduced. Ideally, the team would prefer to have a new stadium by 2012. But until that goal becomes more realistic, the Rays want to expand their corporate support and attract more season-ticket buyers. Playing in their first postseason may increase next season's revenues, but in an economy close to, or already in, a recession, winning the World Series might not be the bonanza it otherwise might be.
 ''This market is challenging, because while it may look like Phoenix or Seattle with its population, it doesn't act that way,'' Kalt said. ''It doesn't have a downtown everybody identifies with. It's really a market that is five separate towns, but each has little to do with each other. There's a real issue in unifying the region.''
 That is a different problem for the team that almost took their pale hose to Florida.
 ''We have to win to draw,'' Einhorn said. ''The Cubs just have to show up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Thome at Tampa Bay's Tropicana Field, which the White Sox once considered moving to. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENC/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); SPORTS FANS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO WHITE SOX (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



346 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Employees Agree to Buyouts and Work Concessions to Save Star-Ledger in Newark

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The largest newspaper in New Jersey, The Star-Ledger, will not change hands or go out of business -- at least not for a while -- its owners said on Wednesday, after employees agreed to buyouts and concessions.
 The final piece demanded by Advance Publications, the paper's publisher, fell into place on Tuesday night, when The Star-Ledger's drivers agreed to a wage freeze and other concessions. 
 The paper will reduce its work force through buyouts from more than 1,000 people to fewer than 800, said Donald Newhouse, president of Advance Publications, which is owned by his family. A similar cost-cutting program staved off the potential closure of a smaller sister paper, The Trenton Times.
 Mr. Newhouse has said that The Star-Ledger, based in Newark, is on a pace to lose $40 million this year, as the economy slows and the newspaper industry suffers through the sharpest drop in advertising revenue since the Depression. With the buyouts and union concessions, the paper should return to operating in the black, he said, but he added that the times were too uncertain for firm predictions.
 ''Hope is the operative word,'' he said. ''I hope we can make it work, that the economic conditions will allow us to make it work.''
 In late July, Advance announced that it needed to obtain wage and work-rule concessions from its unions, and to have at least 200 of The Star-Ledger's roughly 750 nonunion employees accept voluntary buyouts. The buyout offer was a year's salary and a year of continued health insurance. It was expected that more than 100 of the employees accepting the buyout would be in the paper's newsroom.
 The company said that unless both conditions were met by Oct. 1, it would sell The Star-Ledger -- most likely to an owner who would lay off large numbers of people. Without 25 buyouts at The Trenton Times, it said, that paper would simply close.
 Buyers are scarce in a business with rapidly dwindling profits at a time when banks have all but stopped lending money. Executives at other newspaper companies said that in better times they would have been interested in The Star-Ledger, but that they were scared away by the economic climate and by what they were able to determine about the paper's finances.
 Last month, Advance executives raised the prospect that they might simply close The Star-Ledger rather than sell it. New Jersey business and political leaders protested that it would be a severe blow to lose the state's dominant paper, whose weekday circulation of 345,000 ranks 15th in the country. Five years ago, the paper's circulation was 408,000.
 The number of nonunion workers offering to take a buyout exceeded the company's target of 200, and it is not clear how many will actually be allowed to leave under the program, Mr. Newhouse said. In addition, he said, up to 20 union drivers will get buyouts.
 Advance had won concessions from most of its unions this year, and by last month, the sole holdout was the Newspaper and Mail Deliverers Union, representing about 100 Star-Ledger drivers.
 On Tuesday night, the drivers voted overwhelmingly to give up scheduled wage increases -- partly offset by lump-sum payments -- along with making some smaller concessions. Under the union's rules, all of its members, including those working at other companies, were allowed to cast ballots, and the company said the vote was 161-6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



347 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: From Wall Street to the Boardwalk, No Sign of Lady Luck

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY 

 BODY:
 Ines Santa Maria is singing ''Can't Help Lovin' Dat Man'' in a lovely, clear soprano that wafts through the air in front of Atlantic City's old Boardwalk Hall convention center like a soft breeze. She's leaning on a cane. In front of her is a plastic tip bucket full of beach sand. On a really good summer day she makes about $50. Maybe she'll make a third of that today. 
 Ms. Santa Maria, who sang and was in a comedy troupe in New York for many years, does not look like a high roller, but long ago, in her own way, she was. She invested in a hot telecommunications stock based on a broker's tip in the 1970s and built up an account worth $34,000. Not big money to some hedge fund guy from Greenwich, but pretty good for a struggling entertainer in the 1970s. 
 She knows she should have nurtured it for the long term, but most of us aren't too smart about the stock market, and she wasn't either. She bought more on margin, lost it all in the market crash of 1987 and is only dimly aware of the even scarier crash going on now.
 ''My problem was I was always looking to get the money now, right away,'' she said. ''If I ever have money, I'm not going to do that again.''
 Fish gotta swim, birds gotta fly. The current market horror show is like no other except all the others that came before it.
 So for those who can't bear to look at their 401(k) statements, those without much in there to start with, people who prefer a more intimate form of investment risk, there's always Atlantic City. No, you don't have those confident projections of 8 percent annual appreciation, but we all know what those are worth these days.
 ''Sign up. Everybody wins!'' reads the welcoming billboard in front of the Caesars parking lot, a novel and welcome thought almost anywhere else on the planet this week. Truth we'll worry about next week.
 And who couldn't feel just a little bit better with the fresh sea air, some Fralinger's saltwater taffy, a 99-cent Boardwalk hot dog, a nice healthful funnel cake? Inside was the merry cacophony of the slots promising prosperous outcomes (Stinkin' Rich, Money Island), reunions with dear old friends (Dean Martin's Wild Party, the Village People Party), or exotic locales (Treasures of Troy, Brazilian Beauty). No locked-up credit markets, just accommodating A.T.M.'s at every corner.
 For some, there was something comforting in the clarity of it.
 ''At least here you know you're throwing your money away,'' said Eric Langley, a package delivery driver up for the day from Baltimore.
 But from the sign at the Virginia City Buffet at Bally's Wild Wild West Casino (''For a maverick-sized appetite'') to the scary headlines in The Press of Atlantic City (''Financial Crisis -- Dow Drops Below 10,000''), even at the swanky Borgata, with its terrazzo and earth-tone air of rarefied cool, everything inside has reverberations in everything outside.
 The casino business in Atlantic City, after all, is in the same fix as everyone else facing the drag of high gas prices, a sagging economy and the overly optimistic projections of the gambling companies, now with too many casinos in Pennsylvania, Connecticut and New York chasing too few gamblers. 
 Revenues for the first eight months of the year -- before the economic bottom fell out -- are down 5.2 percent over the same period in 2007, and the Atlantic City Council took a preliminary vote on Wednesday to delay for a year a complete smoking ban at the 11 casinos here.
 Comparisons with Wall Street were hard to avoid.
 ''At least here they know how to run their businesses,'' said William Falkenmayer, a retiree from West Islip on Long Island, perhaps a bit charitably contrasting the casinos with banks offering so-called Ninja (no income, no job, no assets) loans.
 ''On Wall Street, win or lose, they still win with their golden parachutes and the rest,'' added Joe Blees, a retired construction project manager from Broomall, Pa. ''Everything's a risk today.''
 Minus the parachutes, you could say the same about the casinos, but the weather was lovely. Comforting music -- the Moody Blues, Norah Jones, Bonnie Raitt -- was washing over the Boardwalk. Things could be worse.
 And, of course they were. 
 On Monday, far from the Boardwalk, where people faced issues far grimmer than imploded 401(k)s, hundreds of low-income residents in Atlantic City desperate to get one of the 150 scarce vouchers for the federally subsidized Section 8 housing program waited for as long as 11 hours to put their names on a waiting list. Many were sent home without even getting a chance to leave their names. 
 Maybe Lady Luck will shine on them someday, on the happy losers in the casinos, on the afflicted masses stuffing unread 401(k) reports into desk drawers. But in Atlantic City, on Wall Street and most places in between, it doesn't look like it will happen anytime soon. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ines Santa Maria, singing for tips on the Boardwalk in Atlantic City, lost $34,000 in the stock market in the 1980s.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



348 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Sales Underwhelm at Art Auctions

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
Adding to speculation about how the worldwide economic downturn will affect next month's big auctions in New York, two sales abroad drew disappointing numbers. On Tuesday an auction of Islamic and Indian art at Christie's in London sold just 47 percent of its 439 lots, Bloomberg News reported. The auction generated total sales of $18.1 million, according to Bloomberg; a similar auction at Christie's in April generated $20.5 million from 282 lots. On Wednesday, Bloomberg reported, Sotheby's in Hong Kong had lower sales than expected at the end of a five-day auction of Asian art. The auction was expected to yield about $257 million, but garnered $141.7 million from a sale of 1,700 items. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); RELIGION (71%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



349 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Homes Log a Rise In Pending Sales

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Pending home sales rose 7.4 percent from July to August, an industry group said Wednesday in an unexpected piece of positive news for the battered housing market. 
 The group, the National Association of Realtors, said its seasonally adjusted index of pending sales for existing homes rose to 93.4 from an upwardly revised July reading of 87. The reading was the highest since June 2007.
 Home sales are considered pending when the seller has accepted an offer but the deal has not yet closed. Typically there is a one- to two-month lag before a sale is completed.
 Wall Street economists surveyed by Thomson IFR had predicted the index would fall to 84.9.
 The index, which sunk to a record low of 83 in March, stood at 85.8 in August 2007.
 Sales are picking up in places where housing prices have declined severely, including Arizona, California, Florida, Nevada and Rhode Island and the Washington, D.C., area, said Lawrence Yun, the association's chief economist. Still, Mr. Yun does not expect home prices to rebound until next year and expects only a modest gain -- 2 to 3 percent -- in 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); NEVADA, USA (52%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



350 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Debra Messing's 'Starter' Role Has Staying Power

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Molly Kagan, the ex-wife of a thoughtless movie mogul who dumps her for a younger model, was supposed to be just a summer fling for Debra Messing. 
 Ms. Messing, casting about for a new challenge after the long-running NBC sitcom ''Will & Grace'' concluded in 2006, took on the role of Molly in ''The Starter Wife,'' a six-part mini-series in May and June of last year on the USA Network. Ms. Messing's character, informed by cellphone that her husband wants a divorce, soon finds herself rejected by her (fake) friends, her country club and her charities, and seeks to remake herself as a writer and a single mother without cachet in Brentwood and Malibu.
 Molly struck such a chord with both audiences and critics, garnering high ratings, good reviews and 10 Emmy nominations, that beginning Friday night ''The Starter Wife'' is back -- this time as a regular series. 
 Molly resonated with viewers, Ms. Messing said, because many women (men too) know a thing or two about reinventing themselves because spouses find them too familiar or too (fill in the blank). ''The choices you make as a woman inevitably are messy, and no choice brings pure happiness,'' Ms. Messing said in an interview on a soundstage in this corner of the San Fernando Valley, perched on a tacky sofa squeezed between dangling cords and huge lights, an electric chair (a prop for a fantasy sequence) lurking in the distance. Thin, her auburn hair fluffed around her face, Ms. Messing, 40, was taking a break last month from filming a segment of the 10-episode season. 
 ''I love Molly,'' added Ms. Messing, who is herself the wife of Daniel Zelman, a screenwriter and co-creator of ''Damages'' on FX, and the mother of a 4-year-old boy. ''She's not running away, she's staying in the community where she's an outsider.'' 
 For executives at USA, the audience's passionate response dovetailed with their search for a regular comedy series with a hint of darkness and a female lead, said Bonnie Hammer, the president of NBC Universal Cable Entertainment and Universal Cable Productions. The mini-series attracted people from the start: its premiere drew the most viewers in the 18-49 age category for the network since the premiere of the science-fiction series ''The 4400.'' While the show does satirize the world of surgery-enhanced women and their big-deal husbands in places where the right handbag and the right table at the charity event really, really matter, it does delve beneath the frothy surface. 
 ''As we looked at the project and saw the response from women living in similar situations all over the country, in different economic situations, we realized we could add a level of gravitas and poignancy in a series,'' Ms. Hammer said. 
 And the USA executives were able to persuade Ms. Messing and her colleagues, including Judy Davis (who won an Emmy for her portrayal of an acerbic socialite and recovering alcoholic), to sign on. ''When the mini-series ended, we looked at each other and said, 'This works, we have to work together again,' '' Ms. Messing said of the chance to develop the story and the characters beyond the divorce.
 Though USA had success transforming ''4400'' from a mini-series into a full series, the task has challenges. While the ''Starter Wife'' mini-series had the best-selling novel of the same name by Gigi Levangie Grazer to inspire characters and plotlines, the series must find fresh ways to explore them. 
 Ms. Messing said Molly and her friends' ever-shifting universe offers plenty of potential threads: Will Kenny, Molly's ex-husband, realize he made a big mistake? Will Molly find her voice as a writer? What other romantic entanglements will Rodney, a gay man with an interior design business and one of Molly's best friends, stumble into? 
 ''From the mini-series to the series, we really go into what it's like to be a divorced woman and navigating with your ex-husband, what it's like to have that relationship, how to raise a child in those conditions, how to date in those conditions,'' said Josann McGibbon, who, with Sara Parriott (with whom she wrote ''Runaway Bride''), is an executive producer and writer for the series. Kenny (played by David Alan Basche), seems spectacularly unsuited for raising a child as half of a divorced couple. Once, before a beach vacation, he entertained their daughter, Jaden, with the film ''Jaws.'' 
 The series also introduces new characters. In the two-hour premiere Molly joins a writing group led by Zach McNeill (played by Hart Bochner), a novelist and serial dater of living Barbie dolls. When information in Molly's missing journal show up on a gossip Web site -- spilling secrets of the Botoxed, the fabulous and the forsaken -- Zach comes to her aid and looks promising as more than a friend.
 Despite the fame she found as Grace Adler in ''Will & Grace'' or her leading role in the 2005 film ''The Wedding Date'' or making it onto People magazine's ''most beautiful'' list, Ms. Messing said she very much connects to Molly's outsider status. 
 ''I've always felt like I was on the periphery, always,'' Ms. Messing insisted, adding that she has tried to live a very private life outside the fishbowl that is Los Angeles. ''I'm still not the obvious choice for anything, really. I'm not beautiful enough to be, you know, a leading lady in the conventional term. It's about what has always been the standard, and I don't look like the standard. I've got the flat chest. I'm more ethnic-looking than most people.'' 
 But like Molly, Ms. Messing has spunk. She said no when network executives for ''Will & Grace'' asked her to enhance her bust, and she became an executive producer on ''The Starter Wife'' to ensure that the series stays true to its roots, she said. 
 ''It was important for me that it picks up where it left off and retain the same comic voice, the same darkness,'' Ms. Messing said, ''not shying away from social satire because it's now a TV show.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Debra Messing stars in ''The Starter Wife,'' a series on USA.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (89%); FILM (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); WRITERS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (73%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



351 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2234 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: October 9, 2008

 BODY:
International
 WITH TRADITIONAL STIGMAS WANING,
 Adoptions Increase in South Korea
 With a traditional emphasis on family bloodlines, South Koreans have long been reluctant to adopt. As a result, since the 1950s tens of thousands of South Korean children have been adopted by foreigners, mostly Americans. But the government is pushing aggressively to increase domestic adoptions in South Korea and last year, for the first time, more babies there were adopted by South Koreans than by foreigners. The country has set a goal of eliminating foreign adoptions altogether by 2012. PAGE A6 
 BRIEFING IN PAKISTAN ON TERRORISM
 In an extraordinary step in Pakistan, the military gave a classified briefing to Parliament about its efforts to combat terrorism. Although many parliamentarians said the briefing was focused too narrowly on military operations rather than the strategic issues facing the country, the ruling party's members hailed it as historic, and some analysts saw it as a first step in evolving a grand national strategy against terrorism. PAGE A13 
 NEW BLAST ON TARGETED IRAQI STREET
 A suicide bomber blew herself up in the provincial capital of Diyala Province, killing 10 people on a street that has already been attacked by suicide bombers at least 16 times in the last five years. The street, lined by a number of government buildings, has become known as the ''street of suicide bombers and car bombers'' because there have been so many explosions there. PAGE A13 
 KOSOVO'S INDEPENDENCE SCRUTINIZED
 Serbia won its bid in a sharply polarized vote in the United Nations General Assembly to have the International Court of Justice review the manner in which Kosovo declared its independence last February. Addressing the General Assembly before the vote, the Serbian foreign minister, Vuk Jeremic, said the court review would ''serve to reduce tensions in the region and facilitate our efforts at reconciliation.'' PAGE A10 
 A CALL FOR TROOPS IN AFGHANISTAN
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates called on America's allies in southeastern Europe, a group of countries that includes Italy, Turkey, Ukraine, Romania and Macedonia, to expand their troop commitments to Afghanistan, where NATO is struggling to combat an emboldened Taliban. PAGE A13 
 CHINA SETS MELAMINE LIMITS
 In an effort to rebuild consumer confidence, China's Health Ministry said that it had established limits for the allowable trace amounts of melamine in dairy products that officials said would make the items safe. This announcement follows revelations last month that at least three babies had died and 53,000 children had been sickened by drinking contaminated milk products. PAGE A10 
 NATIONAL
 IN A BOOK OF OLD PHOTOS, 
 A Town Gets a Tribute
 The photographs Everett Kuntz took as a teenager in Ridgeway, Iowa, in the late 1930s were unprinted for 60 years until Mr. Kuntz, dying with cancer, remembered them. They have since been published by the University of Iowa Press, and in Ridgeway the pictures have given the town something to smile about. PAGE A14
 CHICAGO HALTS EVICTIONS
 Law enforcement officers in Chicago will no longer evict residents from foreclosed properties, Sheriff Thomas Dart of Cook County said. The sheriff said he took the measure because an increasing number of the residents in foreclosed properties were renters who may have been dutifully paying their rent and may have no knowledge that the owner was behind on the mortgage. A new Chicago law gives renters 90 days from thetime a foreclosure sale is confirmed before they can be evicted. PAGE A14
 A HAVEN ACROSS A STATE LINE
 An Iowa resident crossed into Nebraska on Tuesday to abandon a 14-year-old girl in a hospital under a Nebraska law that allows parents or guardians to leave a child in state custody. Nebraska officials said it was the first time a child from out of state has been dropped off under the that law, posing legal and policy questions, including what to do with the girl. PAGE A15 
 GUIDELINES FOR STOPPING INFECTIONS
 Hoping to improve infection control in hospitals, the nation's top epidemiological societies joined with the American Hospital Association and the Joint Commission, which accredits hospitals, to issue a compendium of guidelines. The recommended practices, like vigorous hand-washing before the insertion of catheters, do not vary in significant ways from the guidelines issued and revised over the last two decades by a government advisory panel. PAGE A15 
 STEVENS PROSECUTION IS DEALT BLOW
 The judge presiding at the corruption trial of Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska dealt a sharp blow to the prosecution by excluding some evidence because he said Justice Department prosecutors used documents they knew contained lies. The judge declined to declare a mistrial or dismiss any of the seven felony counts as had been urged by Mr. Stevens's lawyers, but he delivered a severe scolding to the prosecution. PAGE A18 
 OBITUARIES
 DR. ERNEST BEUTLER, 80
 In the 1980s, he and his colleagues at the Scripps Research Institute developed and tested a drug which was found to be effective in treating a potentially fatal disease of the blood and bone marrow. PAGE A29 
 SPORTS
 YANKEES COMPLEX CLOSE TO,
 But Not Part of, Playoff Picture
 At the Yankees minor league training complex in Tampa, Fla., the signs pay tribute to the team's record 26 World Series titles. But just a short drive away, the team that is getting ready to play in the American League Championship Series against the Boston Red Sox is the Tampa Bay Rays, who, along with the Red Sox and Mets, might just be the Yankees' biggest rivals. PAGE B17
 GENDER GAP IN EXERCISE
 Girls who are not white, come from immigrant backgrounds or live in urban areas are less likely to be physically active than boys, while children in suburban areas have achieved a level of relative gender parity in athletics, according to a national survey of more than 2,000 school-age children to be released Thursday by the Women's Sports Foundation. PAGE B17
 NEW YORK
 THE LONG HISTORY 
 Behind a Change of Heart
 After an expensive and unsuccessful campaign for mayor almost 20 years ago, Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics magnate, single-handedly engineered and underwrote a referendum that enshrined him as the father of term limits for city officials. But after coffee and cookies with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at Gracie Mansion on Wednesday, Mr. Lauder said he would not oppose a City Council bill to extend the limits to three terms for next year's election. PAGE A30
 SHARPTON AND OTHERS GUILTY
 The Rev. Al Sharpton and seven others were found guilty of disorderly conduct, a charge that stemmed from their blocking of several bridges and tunnels around the city in May during a protest of the acquittal of three detectives charged in the shooting death of Sean Bell. The judge, Larry R. Stephen of Manhattan Criminal Court, said he was ''sympathetic to the underlying causes which gave rise to the protests and demonstrations,'' but added, ''The evidence is overwhelming.'' PAGE A31
 BLOGGING AGAINST THE TIDE
 Richard Ivory is black and Republican and a New Yorker, a combination that presents challenges even under normal circumstances. He started a blog, HipHopRepublican.com, four years ago to voice criticism of what he perceived to be the political pigeonholing of blacks. But he acknowledges that this year, despite being a devout Republican, he feels history tugging at his loyalties. PAGE A31
 BUSINESS
 ICELAND COULD BE FIRST
 Country to Go Bust
 After a decade-long binge in which its major banks, and some of its citizens, expanded beyond their means, Iceland may be the first country to face the prospect of ''national bankruptcy'' since the credit crisis began. Many people are talking about an epochal change, but no one is quite sure what that would mean. PAGE B1
 THE FACE OF THE BAILOUT
 The man with the shaved head and intense eyes who has been traveling with the Treasury secretary to Capitol Hill to testify about the unfolding financial crisis is -- to the surprise of many -- a 35-year-old former Goldman Sachs investment banker, Neel Kashkari, whom Mr. Paulson has tapped to oversee the $700 billion bailout effort. PAGE B1
 UPBEAT AMID THE DOWNTURN
 Small-business owners might take solace in the upbeat attitude of Christopher Hazlett, founder and president of a software design firm in Hoboken, N.J. He is introducing a software program called Event Clipboard on Friday in the midst of the financial system's breakdown. Is he nervous? ''Most of all, I feel exuberant,'' he said. PAGE B5
 AN ALMOST PERFECT IDEA
 The concept is irresistible: a single, sleek pad that can replace the assorted black power bricks that are required to recharge your mobile gadgets. But you have to retrofit each existing appliance with special connections at a price of $35 each for it to work. David Pogue, State of the Art. PAGE B1
 STRAIGHTENING OUT VISTA
 Much has been made about the issues with Microsoft's Vista operating system -- including a series of TV commercials by Apple poking fun at it. But there are some ways to make your Vista experience more livable, and perhaps even more lovable. PAGE B10
 HOME
 A ROCK STAR WHO STAYS
 Close to His Old Haunts
 If you're Wayne Coyne, the singer, guitarist and guiding force of the Flaming Lips, a house isn't enough. You need a compound where you can put up visitors, rehearse without neighbors complaining, and shoot the movie you're co-directing and starring in. PAGE D1
 DEALING WITH ASBESTOS
 Building owners have spent millions of dollars to remove contaminated insulation, but it still isn't unusual to find asbestos in homes. What to do about it? The first rule is, don't disturb it. The second step depends on where you find it. PAGE D2
 Arts
 WITH HER COMPANY ALL GROWN UP,
 A Director Says Goodbye
 Tina Ramirez, above, the artistic director of Ballet Hispanico, is stepping down from her position after almost 40 years, but she doesn't want to call it retirement: ''I've been in the theater my whole life, how can you retire?'' The engagement is Ms. Ramirez's last as the leader of a company she helped to turn into one of the most prominent Hispanic-American dance organizations in the country. PAGE C1
 NETWORKS COPYCAT FROM ABROAD
 Jobs are not the only things being outsourced. ''Life on Mars,'' which premieres on ABC, is adapted from a British series. So is CBS's ''Eleventh Hour,'' in the same vein as the ''CSI'' shows, but by contrast it lacks pizzazz. ''Kath & Kim,'' which begins on NBC, is a copy of a popular Australian sitcom, but suffers from identity problems, Alessandra Stanley writes. PAGE C1
 FOX NEWS HOST RENEWS CONTRACT
 Sean Hannity, a cornerstone of Fox News Channel's prime-time schedule, has agreed to appear on the network through the next presidential election in 2012. With the contract renewal Mr. Hannity is expected to become an even more prominent part of Fox's opinion programming, especially since it remains unclear how much longer Bill O'Reilly, Fox News Channel's host of the 8 p.m. hour, will remain now that his contract has expired. PAGE C3
 SECOND START FOR SERIES AND LIFE
 Debra Messing, casting about for a new challenge after ''Will & Grace'' ended in 2006, took on the role of Molly in ''The Starter Wife,'' a six-part mini-series in May and June. Her character, who tries to remake herself as a writer and a single mother after her husband leaves her along with her (fake) friends, struck such a chord with both audiences and critics that the series is back and not as a mini. PAGE C1
 Styles
 DOWN TO BARE ESSENTIALS
 And Moving Along
 In covering fashion shows, looking at naked people becomes part of this often surreal job. But perhaps, what is strangest about this particular form of employment is that being around rooms filled with unclad women and men is anything but stimulating. PAGE E1
 DO-IT-YOURSELF SPA AT HOME
 With a $28,000 home massage machine, tooth whitening gel or a skin-friendly Taser, home spa treatment has come a long way from a Listerine gargle. PAGE E3
 Editorial
 NEARING THE END
 No matter who wins the presidential election, the United States is on its way out of Iraq. Senator Barack Obama offers the most specific and speediest withdrawal plan, but even Senator John McCain will not be able to keep a large number of combat troops there for long. PAGE A36 
 THAT'S A PRETTY BIG GLITCH
 Election officials, who will have plenty on their minds on Nov. 4, have one more thing to worry about: Diebold electronic voting machines that drop votes. PAGE A36 
 Op-Ed 
 GAIL COLLINS
 Senator John McCain may feel compelled to go back to his guilt-by-association theme. And this has me feeling very guilty about my associates. PAGE A37 
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 The Bush administration is quietly cutting off birth control supplies to some of the world's poorest women. Thus the paradox: A ''pro-life'' administration adopts a policy that will result in tens of thousands of additional abortions each year and more women dying in childbirth. PAGE A37 
 SAVED BY THE DEFICIT?
 In an Op-Ed article, Robert B. Reich, President Bill Clinton's first secretary of labor, insists that deficit spending will be necessary to get America out of its economic malaise, and that the next president need not cut back on any of his campaign proposals. PAGE A37 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); ADOPTION LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); TALIBAN (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (63%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (60%); MILK (60%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); TURKEY (79%); UKRAINE (73%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (54%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



352 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FINE POINTS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: A Right Way To Go Wrong

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
ONE award fashion does not give out is the ''A'' for effort. No matter how many hundreds of dollars and careful man-hours you spend on a look, it has to appear as if you got dressed while tranked on Haldol (or at least a Pabst Blue Ribbon or two), or you are likely to receive fashion's cruelest judgment: ''Trying too hard.'' 
 So men who want to indulge in the latest trend -- seen on fall runways from Giorgio Armani to Gilded Age, and on stylish guys all over town -- should tread carefully. Wearing your pants nonchalantly tucked into your boots requires not only fastidious attention to detail, but also the right boots and pants.
 ''It's definitely a good look,'' said Madeline Weeks, the fashion director of GQ. ''But the proportion of the boot and the pants has to be right. You don't want to the boots to be too short or too tall -- say, four to six inches above the ankle, or up to eight if you're really going to go there.''
 Boots that are too short, or knee high, can be too costumey. As can anything too slick, given that the aim is to suggest a woodsy outdoorsman style. You can't go wrong with tried-and-true workingman classics from Red Wing, Carolina and L. L. Bean. Ms. Weeks also ticked off several fashion labels -- Neil Barrett, John Varvatos, Rogues Gallery, Rag & Bone -- whose boots are up to scuff.
 Then, too, the pants need to be slim or even tight. If they're baggy, they look like plus fours. While the economic outlook may have some of us giving serious thought to a sequel to the French Revolution, Ms. Weeks suggests that dressing for one is de trop.
 ''The idea is that you had to run out of the house and couldn't take time to lace up your boots or get your pants over them, so you just shoved them in,'' she said. In other words, a little cavalier (an adjective that, nota bene, derives from ''horseman'').
 So if it looks as if you're trying too hard, you should try a little harder.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PERFECT MESS: From left, Hunter rubber boots, $115 at Jeffrey New York
Rogues Gallery carpenter jeans, $180 at Barneys New York. Duck boots, $85 at L. L. Bean
plaid cotton trousers, $275 at Paul Smith. Red Wing Traction Tred Crepe Wedge boots, $175 at Dave's New York
plaid wool-polyester pants, $238 at Marc Jacobs. Leather boots with a strap with crest detail, $1,250 at Gucci
 gray jeans, $68 at American Apparel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS SHIPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (58%); MARC JACOBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



353 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Not long ago, hipsters snubbed their noses at the brownstones and tree-lined streets of sleepy Prospect Heights. But a burst of stylish new spots has attracted young couples and professionals who have outgrown Williamsburg and Manhattan's Lower East Side. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 Opinion
 TIMOTHY EGAN My Own Focus Group
 Colorado Springs, a center of evangelical political power, is looking to the future in some surprising ways.
 nytimes.com/egan
 LESSON PLANS A Unique Approach
 Inside the Classroom For children at a school in Georgia, some of whom face difficult problems at home, creative exploration and expression in the classroom are vital.
 nytimes.com/egan
 INTERACTIVE: THEN AND NOW
 The first in a recurring series showcasing historical photographs of New York compared with recent photographs of the same scene. Today's edition looks northwest across Bryant Park to the Avenue of the Americas and West 42nd Street in Manhattan.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 VIDEO: ROAD TO NOVEMBER:
 Greeley, Colo.
 The Times's trek across the country continues in a tossup state where both presidential campaigns have sunk significant resources into getting the nine electoral votes that are up for grabs.
 nytimes.com/politics
 RECIPES FOR HEALTH
 This week's batch of healthy recipes showcases five ways to prepare chard, a green that is sturdier than spinach but adds a delicate flavor to dishes it is used in.
 nytimes.com/nutrition
 VIDEO: AFGHANISTAN'S 
 Disability Crisis
 A profile of Dost Mohammad Khi-Ree, a disabled Afghan refugee who returned to Afghanistan to advocate greater services for the country's disabled population.
 nytimes.com/world
 Economix
 Q & A on Rate Cuts
 David Leonhardt and Catherine Rampell answer reader questions about the significance of the coordinated worldwide rate cut.
 nytimes.com/economix
 TECH TALK
 Saul Hansell on Twitter's new political twist, the tech term ''meme,'' a gadget preview for the gift-giving season and new features for Gmail. 
 nytimes.com/techtalk

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (76%); POLITICS (76%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); RELIGION (56%); REFUGEES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (85%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



354 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; GEAR TEST WITH KIRSTEN KAUFMAN, BIKING COMMUTER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Because Bikes Don't Have Trunks

BYLINE: By STEVEN KRCMAR

 BODY:
WITH high gas prices and a struggling economy, interest in cycling as a way to get around is attracting a new audience. ''Until recently, bike commuting was for the super-dedicated bike person, but that whole notion has been thrown out the window in the last year,'' says Tim Blumenthal, executive director at Bikes Belong, a nationwide cycling advocacy group. ''Now, all kinds of people are riding bikes.'' 
 And products that have been introduced in the last two years have made it easier for even casual pedalers to leave their cars parked and still be able to haul gear and groceries, or take work home without resorting to a sweat-producing backpack or messenger bag. 
 Recent updates in saddlebags, commonly know as panniers, which attach to a bike's rack, include models that are easier to attach and remove, less expensive, double as grocery bags, and are designed specifically to carry and protect a laptop computer. Kirsten Kaufman, a real estate agent in Portland, Ore., who started bike commuting regularly this January, tested five panniers as she ran errands, took her children to school, and conducted her on-bike neighborhood tours over the course of a month. STEPHEN KRCMAR

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ARKEL COMMUTER: $159, www.arkel-od.com Designed for a computer-hauling cyclist, the Commuter (right) made Ms. Kaufman ''feel really comfortable about carrying my laptop, because there's not only a sleeve but straps to stabilize it.'' She appreciated the outer pockets, and the zipper pouch that gave ''easy access'' to her keys and cellphone. She liked that it was ''super roomy'' and ''ergonomic,'' but wasn't thrilled that it ''looked like a backpack, because I associate that with a student.''
DETOURS TOOCAN: $55, www.adventurecycling.org It found the sweet spot amid form, function and fashion for Ms. Kaufman (shown at left with the Toocan), who appreciated that she could bring the bag into a business meeting and not feel ''scrungy.'' Calling it ''stylish,'' ''practical,'' ''intuitive'' and ''easy'' to put on the bike, she also appreciated the ''handy'' rain cover, shoulder strap and the fact that its flat bottom lets it stand up on its own. But she didn't like that it sat higher on her bike rack, slightly affecting the center of gravity.
JANDD GROCERY BAG: $52.95, www.jandd.com This bag (above), sold as a single unit, has clips that were ''secure'' and made Ms. Kaufman ''confident that it would hold on well.'' And with a shoulder strap, ''you could theoretically shop with it, if you didn't want to use a bag at the store.'' She also liked the mesh sides because she believed that they wouldn't get as dirty as a solid surface.
ORTLIEB BIKE SHOPPER: $93.50, www.ortliebusa.com Made by a brand synonymous with waterproof cycling gear, the Bike Shopper (left) had the best clip system in the test, Ms. Kaufman said. It was ''easy to use'' and ''roomy,'' and she said she was able to stuff her laptop, multiple files and her purse into a single bag. She ''didn't have any concerns about overloading it or anything getting wet.'' The only negative: she disliked the yellow color and ''would never carry it to a meeting unless it was with another cyclist.''
 NOVARA 'ROUND TOWN: $55, www.rei.com Ms. Kaufman liked that this unit (right), which is sold in pairs, folded up flat and snapped shut when not in use. But she wished that there was a shoulder strap instead of just a handle for carrying basic groceries. Although the clips for attaching the bags to the rack were ''shallow'' and ''didn't seem super sturdy,'' she said, they performed ''O.K.'' when carrying a load. She thought that the open-mouth tops made them a good choice for cyclists who don't ride in the rain or on bumpy terrain. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LISA BAUSO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); CYCLING (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); CHILDREN (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (51%) OREGON, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



355 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Economy Stalling Your Business? Shift Gears

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
THESE may not be the best of times to start or run a small business, but Christopher Hazlett's struggle to hang tough through one crisis after another may hold lessons for the legions of entrepreneurs caught between a stumbling economy and crippling credit squeeze.
 At the very least, his upbeat attitude should offer them solace, and maybe even a bit of inspiration. 
 It has been a rough year for Mr. Hazlett, founder and president of Integrate Consulting L.L.C., a software design firm in Hoboken, N.J. First, during the market turmoil last January, Johnson & Johnson, Merrill Lynch and almost all his other clients walked away from their contracts in just two weeks. His company's revenue projections for 2008 fell from six figures to close to zero.
 Then, he spent a disheartening four months trying to find new business.
 Admitting defeat, he made a big gamble to save his company by switching from his comfortable perch of doing software design for Fortune 100 companies to the uncharted territory of developing a Web product for a market that includes churches and synagogues.
 His timing is not optimal. He is introducing a software program called Event Clipboard on Friday in the midst of the American financial system's current nervous breakdown.
 Is Mr. Hazlett, 31 years old, nervous?
 ''Most of all, I feel exuberant,'' he said. ''I wake up in the morning saying, 'Yes! I wonder what's going to happen today?' ''
 It helps that the entrepreneurial urge is in his genes. He formed a theater group in college and made money creating publicity posters and Web sites. Though he weighed a career in acting or the Navy, ''I always knew I wanted to start my own company and create something from nothing,'' he said.
 In jobs after college as a fund-raiser and later as a marketer for a couple of architectural firms, he said, ''I got bitten by the bug to make software to make it easier to do things.'' Once, he said, for example, he redesigned an operational system that allowed his employer to create photo portfolios for clients in five minutes instead of eight hours.
 He said he also inherited his father's fierce work ethic. He started Integrate in June 2005 while simultaneously studying for a master's degree in communications at Rutgers University and holding down a part-time job as a data analyst at Johnson & Johnson.
 Finally, he exhibited that tell-tale trait of the entrepreneur, boundless self-confidence. After graduating in December 2005, with hardly any savings, he threw himself full-time into Integrate, with Johnson & Johnson as his first big customer.
 ''Not that I had any huge background in computer science,'' he says. ''I just knew what I could do.''
 He had already learned from a couple of mistakes in his start-up's early stages. The first was creating a bar code system to manage inventory for a machine shop. The problem was that the owners did not show much interest in it. The lesson, from that, he said, was, ''If people aren't going to use it, don't make it.''
 The second was signing a lopsided contract with a client. The lesson there, he said, was to find a good lawyer and make sure you know exactly what you are getting into when you enter into an agreement.
 In 2006, with all his energies centered on Integrate, he prospered. He signed a big contract with Merrill Lynch and a few smaller deals. He hired an assistant, who, like him, worked out of her home. The money rolled in -- in the low six figures in 2006 and again in 2007, with phone bills his biggest expense.
 But while all this was happening, Mr. Hazlett was also committing a classic blunder of the fledgling entrepreneur: putting his eggs in too few baskets. He said his gut instinct warned him of the danger, but after landing a big job with yet another big corporation last November, he stopped worrying. 
 Then, it all fell apart. ''In early January, we had 12 months of work in the pipeline,'' Mr. Hazlett said. ''But in just two weeks, all our active clients backed out of their contracts. We went from euphoria to fear.''
 After a futile search for new customers, he decided to develop a new product, event-planning software for small and medium-size organizations. Using the open-source Web framework Ruby on Rails, he spent six months writing and fine-tuning Event Clipboard.
 ''I have a lot of faith in it, in my gut, based on my research,'' he said. ''We fill a niche that didn't exist,'' which he defines as groups within large corporations, nonprofits, including houses of worship, as well as small and medium-size businesses. Smaller organizations can subscribe to a personal account, which costs $20 a month, while the most advanced version sells for $160.
 So far, Mr. Hazlett said, he has recruited nearly 50 beta testers, ''and their reaction is very positive.''
 The day of reckoning approaches. But he said that the road he had traveled so far had hardened him for whatever lies ahead. These are among the other lessons for running a business that he has absorbed over the past year, he said:
 Be frugal. Mr. Hazlett never sought outside financing, and has no debt. In Integrate's heyday, he thought about renting an office, but concluded there was no compelling reason to do so. He cut his salary last year, and even so, puts much of it into his personal savings account.
 Switch to a new product or service if the one you are marketing is not selling. ''I saw that we could only do one of two things: change or close our doors for good,'' he said.
 Be patient. ''It takes time to get it right,'' he says.
 Look for opportunity in tough economic times. It was corporate cost-cutting that hurt him last year, he says, and so he is marketing Event Clipboard as a tool for the budget-conscious to save money.
 ''I'm hoping that by the end of 2009 we'll have 250 accounts,'' he said. ''I think it's going to go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: When Christopher Hazlett's software development business faltered in the economic downturn, he changed his target companies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX di SUVERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (75%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (71%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (70%); RELIGION (67%); FUNDRAISING (67%); THEATER (64%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (73%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



356 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: At the End of the Day, a Jittery Wall Street More Than Gives Back Its Gains

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM and KEITH BRADSHER; Reporting was contributed by David Jolly, Bettina Wassener, Peter Gelling and Graham Bowley.

 BODY:
Wall Street could not hold onto its gains on Wednesday, as a 150-point rally vanished in the closing minutes of trading amid the continued uncertainty about the global financial system. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 189.01 points or 2 percent, to 9,258.10, after falling 316 points in the final 28 minutes of the session. 
 The broader market finished down 11.29 points or 1.1 percent, to 984.94, a modest decline compared with the rest of the week, as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The technology-heavy Nasdaq fell 14.55 points, or 0.83 percent, to 1,740.33. 
 ''It just feels like more of the same,'' said Richard Sparks, an analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research. ''This is an extremely weak market with a tremendous amount of uncertainty.''
 Stocks were volatile through much of the day, lurching up and down the chart across a 400-point range. 
 Crude oil for November delivery fell $1.11 to close at $88.95 a barrel, as concerns about a slowdown continued to drive prices down. The price of 10-year Treasury notes fell 1 3/32, to 103, while the yield rose to 3.64 percent from 3.50 percent.
 Investors had appeared conflicted about the extraordinary global rate cut by the world's central banks that came before trading opened in New York. Stocks ducked in and out of positive territory as investors weighed the good -- a half-point reduction in the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate -- against the bad, the growing realization that a serious recession might be difficult to avoid.
 ''The Fed, worldwide government agencies and central banks have done just about anything they can now,'' Mr. Sparks said. ''And that may be the biggest fear now. They've used up all their bullets, and there's really nothing left to do other than let it work its way through the system.''
 Just a half-hour before the close, it looked as if stocks on Wall Street would snap a five-day losing streak. Telecommunications and technology stocks were higher, and even financial shares advanced. By the bell, however, those gains had been erased. Bank of America shares ended down 7 percent at $22.10, and shares of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley finished lower.
 In London, the FTSE 100, which had been down more than 6 percent on the day, recovered into positive territory, only to fall back. It closed down almost 5 percent. Hong Kong, which pegs its currency to the dollar and its discount rate to the federal funds rate, narrowed the premium it charges over the fed funds rate on Wednesday. Then on Thursday, it matched the Federal Reserve's rate cut.
 Central banks in South Korea and Taiwan also cut interest rates on Thursday after the moves by the United States and Europe.
 The rate cuts seemed to bolster investor confidence in Asia, at least for now.
 In Hong Kong, shares surged 3.4 percent on Thursday morning. They had slumped 8.2 percent on Wednesday.
 Japanese stocks rebounded in morning trading on Thursday, rising 1.3 percent. The Nikkei 225 had plunged 9.4 percent on Wednesday, leading it to close at its lowest level since 2003. The index is still down nearly 40 percent in 2008.
 Ahead of the interest rate cuts, Hans Genberg, the executive director for research at the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said that even if the Federal Reserve were to push down its overnight interest rate -- the federal funds rate -- financial markets might keep falling and harm to the global economy would not be contained. 
 ''Rate cuts, federal funds cuts, are not going to be enough,'' at a time when banks are reluctant to lend to one another, Mr. Genberg said, adding that considerable academic research suggests that the United States must find a way to restore the capital bases of its banks. 
 Olaf Unteroberdoerster, the International Monetary Fund's representative in Hong Kong, was similarly gloomy about the potential of interest rate cuts to stop the problems. ''The key lesson is when you face a confidence issue where the market participants no longer trust each other, the conventional macroeconomic tools are not as effective,'' he said. 
 Economists have been gradually reducing their forecasts for economic growth in Asia, and warn that further reductions may be coming soon. ''All the risks to those numbers are very much on the downside,'' said Michael Buchanan, Goldman Sachs's chief economist for Asia except Japan.
 Mounting difficulties in European economies are starting to spill over into Asia, where many companies had been trying to step up sales to European consumers before the euro started falling in recent weeks. ''For a long time, I think Asia was hoping exports to Europe would make up for a shortfall in the U.S.,'' Mr. Buchanan said. 
 Robert Cardarelli, a senior International Monetary Fund economist, said at a news conference in Hong Kong on Wednesday that the fund's recent research showed that during financial crises in which banks are particularly affected, ''we are in for a much more severe and protracted downturn.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Investors on Wednesday in Mumbai, India, left, and in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, right, had concerns over the markets.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ISSOUF SANOGO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
Little confidence is expressed by a broker at a firm in Mumbai, left, and a not-so-subtle plea at the stock exchange in Milan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ARKO DATTA/REUTERS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL DAL ZENNARO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(SOURCES: ASSOCIATED PRESS
BLOOMBERG) Chart details line graph.
Then: $19.1 Trillion MARKET PEAK, OCT. 9, 2007: One year ago, the stock market hit its highest point. The total value of all the stocks covered by the Dow Jones Wilshire 5000, the broadest measure of the entire market, was just over $19.1 trillion. Since then, that value has fallen $7.4 trillion, nearly 40 percent. These snapshots show the major market sectors and the largest company in each by dollar value, found by multiplying the stock price by the number of shares outstanding.
 Now: $11.7 Trillion WEDNESDAY, OCT. 8, 2008 (Source: Wilshire Associates) Chart details statistics for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); CURRENCIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



357 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER ALEXANDER MCQUEEN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Metamorphosis Has a Price Tag

BYLINE: By CINTRA WILSON

 BODY:
I'VE never really been able to relate to the idea of vastly expensive clothes, no matter how ''classic'' they are, as an ''investment.'' I figured this was the language absurdly rich women used to justify obscene purchases they should be punished for. 
 Alexander McQueen's designs strike me with such terrible love, I avoid the place -- it crowbars the knees of my financial intelligence. I was in the shop once, several years ago. In a fit of design intoxication, I plonked down $500 for a perfect black pencil skirt, a reckless expenditure that launched me into nosebleeding panic for months afterward.
 Since then, I have worn that skirt so relentlessly that even with the most conservative math, it cost me about five bucks a session to wear it. It still looks new; I figure that if it doesn't rot off my body, it will, in a couple of years, officially work its way to being free. Recalling the initial layout, however, still freezes my marrow. These things are hard enough to justify in an economy that doesn't look like an avalanche of scratched lotto tickets; now such purchases are indefensible. 
 I knew my resolve was in jeopardy the minute I stepped inside the shop and a stiletto wingtip spectator bootie ($1,120) stuck all three of its brogued leather tongues out at me. I was vulnerable: I had a performance at a literary festival in San Francisco in a few days, for which I wanted very much to look what the girls at Missbehave magazine call ''bangingsome.''
 The McQueen fall 2008 runway collection was being shown on the plasma TV. The stage was moody and moonlit; models walked around an enormous artichoke-shape tree, candy-wrapped for fumigation in pleated cellophane that spread around the stage like the train of a silvery wedding gown. Breathtaking. 
 ''What was the inspiration?'' I asked a young man with a mohawk named Xuan (pronounced ''Sean''). There was so much white tulle and gold brocade, my guess was ''Swan Lake'' as directed by Crazy Ludwig II of Bavaria. 
 The collection, I was told, was inspired by a 600-year-old tree in back of Mr. McQueen's country house. ''It's a story about a girl emerging from the tree, coming out of darkness,'' Xuan explained. 
 A tale of metamorphosis: Girl sheds her duckling down and becomes a crowned head of the Orient. 
 There was a particularly fetching group of czarist items: a Persian lamb-collared greatcoat ($4,190); silk blouses with jeweled buttons and bunchy princess necks ($1,450); and finally, an enormous crimson satin teardrop of an evening coat with a high ruffled collar (shorter sapphire blue version: $6,880) that perfectly matched a lacquered oval handbag resembling a Faberge egg. I nicknamed the more Gothic of these offerings: ''Anastasia Romanov is back ... and boy is she PO'd.'' The perfect style motto to outfit the End Times, or at least a good class war. 
 I tried on a pair of wonderfully cut, black stretch gabardine pants ($795). 
 ''These are a sound investment,'' said the devil in Miss Wilson. ''These are inarguably classic. You will wear them for at least 150 years.'' 
 ''Shut up,'' I told myself, prying them off. I attempted to restrain my impulses by inspecting other aisles.
 When Mr. McQueen goes wrong, he goes wrong big. Some of the rubberized waterproof-looking black damask pieces were so lousy with ornate buckles and silver skulls as to require Cher to do a cameo on ''Deadwood'' (embroidered hourglass leather jacket with asymmetrical motorcycle zipper: $7,795). 
 And that's when I saw it: A double-V-neck, Sofia-Loren-Goes-to-Wellesley miniature houndstooth wiggle-dress ($1,230). 
 Confession: Never in my life had I crossed the $1,000 barrier for a dress I didn't get married in. I consider it fiscal suicide. Some outrageously tempting garments have clung to me like weepy James Deans, but I have turned and left them coldly on their racks. The Narciso Rodriguez That Got Away stands out as one of the more bitter regrets of my sartorial life, but such is the price of survival. 
 But this wasn't a dress: It was the fulfillment of my deepest desires, in wool. For a literary performance, it was the perfect fusion of tweedy respectability and autobahn curves. Elves had tailored it on me while I slept. 
 ''Dammit!'' I snarled miserably at my ideal reflection. 
 My credit cards were banging steel cups against the bars of my wallet. Black smoke began pouring out of my handbag.
 After much weeping and rending of sensibility, I bought the dress. There is no investment more worthwhile, I reasoned, than an investment in your own transformation into a better future-self. 
 Naturally, this flight of rationalization would not go unpunished. 
 I FOUND myself in a car service on the way to the airport, frantically calling the Alexander McQueen store, the night before my performance. 
 ''Xuan,'' I said, ''you left the security tag on the dress.'' 
 I had seen it while packing. My brain had exploded, envisioning myself walking onstage and San Francisco saying: ''Great dress. Too bad she stole it.'' 
 Xuan sounded miserable. ''You can take it to the Gucci store,'' he whimpered. ''They can remove the tag.'' 
 Was there any other option? Powerful magnets and a crowbar? 
 ''If your hotel has a dry cleaner, they can remove the seams and take it off that way.''
 I could hardly bring myself to pay to dismantle a dress of such astronomical expense before I had even spilled anything on it. 
 Suffice to say, Gucci San Francisco (Alexander McQueen is part of the Gucci Group) came to my rescue. A very nice young man named Dominic removed the offending tag and gave me a new garment bag besides. It was a mild inconvenience. 
 But if the audience at my event that night doesn't remember a word I said, I bet they'll never forget that dress. And I am never taking it off. 
 Alexander McQueen
 417 West 14th Street (between Ninth and Tenth Avenues); (212) 645-1797.
 MCCLEAN The designer's meatpacking district boutique continues to thrill with laser-sharp designs for all modern Ladies Macbeth (or gals who just want to look like them). 
 MCMEAN The Samsonite roller bags, molded to resemble a human rib cage, appear to have the power to roll you right out of the airport and into Matthew Barney's Cremaster Cycle. Ideal when matched with Union Jack evening clutches with jeweled skull clasps.
 MCSLIGHTLY OBSCENE If Jimi Hendrix were alive and raising reindeer in Siberia, a certain nomadic bolero jacket ($16,385) might inspire a free-love revolution in his yurt.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); FESTIVALS (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (67%); LOTTERIES (66%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



358 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Down and Out ... Or In?

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER. 
Tara Siegel-Bernard contributed reporting. E-mail: rlieber@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's a question we've all asked in our darker moments of late: Why not just put all of our investments in cash, 100 percent, just for a little while, until things calm down? 
 Some people already seem to be acting on that instinct. In the first six days of October (through Monday), investors pulled $19 billion out of mutual funds that invest in United States stocks, matching the outflows for the entire month of September, according to TrimTabs Investment Research. 
 ''What clients are looking for is safety,'' said John Bunch, president of retail distribution at TD Ameritrade. ''They are seeking solutions that are backed by the federal government. Specifically, F.D.I.C-insured money funds and certificates of deposit. All of it is under the umbrella of, 'Am I safe and insured?' ''
 By fleeing for the comfort of safe and insured, however, investors with a time horizon beyond a few years may be doing real damage to their long-term finances. If you're tempted to make a big move to cash right now, you're doing something called market timing. It's an implied statement that you've figured out the right moment to get out of stocks -- and will also know the right time to get back in. 
 So let's dispense with the first part straightaway. The right time to move out of stocks was a year or so ago, before various stock indexes the world over fell by one-third or more. 
 If you missed that opportunity, you're hardly alone. 
 But if you sell now, you'll be locking in your losses. And once you're in cash, there isn't much upside. In fact, with interest rates low, you're likely to lose money in cash, because inflation will probably eat up the after-tax returns you earn from a savings or money-market account. 
 A guarantee of a small loss may sound good right now. But if you're not bailing out of stocks once and for all, how will you know when it's time to get back in? The fact is, any peace of mind you gain by being on the sidelines now will turn into a migraine once you see how much you can harm your portfolio over time by missing just a bit of any rebound.
 H. Nejat Seyhun, a professor of finance at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan, put together a study in 2005 for Towneley Capital Management, where he tested the long-term damage that investors could do to their portfolios if they missed out on the small percentage of days when the stock market experienced big gains. 
 From 1963 to 2004, the index of American stocks he tested gained 10.84 percent annually in a geometric average, which avoided overstating the true performance. For people who missed the 90 biggest-gaining days in that period, however, the annual return fell to just 3.2 percent. Less than 1 percent of the trading days accounted for 96 percent of the market gains. 
 This fall, Javier Estrada, a professor of finance at IESE Business School in Barcelona, published a similar study in The Journal of Investing that looked at equity markets in 15 nations, including the United States. A portfolio belonging to an investor who missed the 10 best days over several decades across all of those markets would end up, on average, with about half the balance of someone who sat tight throughout. 
 So moving to cash right now is just fine as long as you know precisely when to get back into stocks (even though you didn't know when to get out of them). 
 At some point, stocks will indeed fall enough that investors will remove the money from their mattresses and put it to work, causing prices to rise significantly. But, as Bonnie A. Hughes, a certified financial planner with the Enrichment Group in Miami, put it to me, there won't be an e-mail message or news release that goes out when this is about to happen. It will be evident only afterward, on the few days when the market surges. 
 And it gets worse for those who think they won't have any trouble investing in stocks again later. Medium- or long-term investors who are considering a big move into cash right now are probably making an emotional decision, at least in part. For those who follow through, the same instincts will probably hurt when trying to figure out when to reinvest in stocks. 
 ''The emotional forces that drove them out of the market aren't likely to let them back in 'until things are better,' '' Dan Danford of the Family Investment Center in St. Joseph, Mo., said in an e-mail message. ''And for most people, things won't feel better again until the market has already moved back up.'' In fact, he added, plenty of people may not allow themselves to get back in until the market has already risen significantly. 
 That situation is worth considering if you think your mood, or returns, can't get any worse. ''People feel worse missing out on the bounce-back that will inevitably come than they do hanging in there through the down period,'' said Elaine D. Scoggins, a certified financial planner with Merriman Berkman Next in Seattle. 
 The truly downbeat do not see the bounce as inevitable. This outlook is essentially a bet that our current predicament is so different that the equity markets won't bounce back at all, even though they survived 1929, the Great Depression, 1987 and a major terrorist attack. I do not believe that the markets are in some kind of permanent decline, and I haven't found an expert who does.
 That said, some retirees, or those close to leaving the work force, may be well-off enough to leave stocks behind for now. If the tumult in the economy and the decline in the markets have altered your risk tolerance, then it may make sense to move to a portfolio of Treasury bills, certificates of deposit and money market funds. 
 Michael G. Coli, 56, of Crystal Lake, Ill., decided to take his 401(k) money out of the market in February. As an investor in his sons' pizza restaurants, he noticed that an increasing number of customers were relying on credit cards. And as the owner of a winter home in Naples, Fla., he witnessed the housing market dive. Taken together, he decided to pull his retirement money, which he would need in five years, from the Vanguard Balanced Index Fund and move it all into certificates of deposit.
 ''I had the feeling the economy was not on real firm ground,'' Mr. Coli said. ''I decided to get out and put it all in C.D.'s, and that is where I've been ever since.''
 If you can't afford to live off the proceeds of cash investments (or dividends from your investment in your kids' pizza joints), you may have no choice but to hold on to whatever stocks you have left. Then, you can hope for a rebound that will allow you to live out your later years more comfortably. Selling now and moving to cash could mean guaranteeing a lower standard of living for the rest of your life, because you'd be locking in your losses. 
 But if you're a bit younger, try to think of your investment portfolio in the same way you consider the value of your home, if you own one. After all, if you're not moving anytime soon, your home is a long-term investment, too. 
 ''Today's price is not your price. Your price is 10 or 20 years from now,'' said Thomas A. Orecchio, of Greenbaum & Orecchio, a wealth management firm in Old Tappan, N.J. ''Unfortunately, stock market investors don't always see things that way.''
 a studya similar study

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some indexes around the world have fallen by a third or more.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) CHART: The Dow Jones Industrial Average peaked on Oct. 9, 2007.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for November through September. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (83%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (57%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (56%); TOWNELEY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (50%)

TICKER: AMTD (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (56%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



359 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Enigmatic Billionaire Is Drawn Back to the Term Limits Fray

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS and ERIC KONIGSBERG

 BODY:
It has been nearly 20 years since Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics heir, mounted a hugely expensive and unsuccessful campaign for mayor. And it has been 15 years since he single-handedly engineered and underwrote a referendum that enshrined him as the father of term limits for city officials.
 In those intervening years, he has devoted himself to art collecting, philanthropy and commercial ventures abroad, occasionally stirring controversy, but largely staying off the political stage. 
 Until a few weeks ago. Amid rumblings that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wanted to rescind term limits and remain in office four more years, Mr. Lauder was suddenly elevated into a starring role, this time as an abundantly wealthy threat to Mr. Bloomberg's ambitions. 
 On Wednesday, after coffee and cookies with the mayor at Gracie Mansion, Mr. Lauder issued an eight-sentence statement pledging not to oppose a City Council bill that would endanger his crowning political achievement by extending the limits to three terms for next year's election. In return, he received a seat on a charter revision commission that is to revisit the term limits issue in 2010 and submit it again to the voters in a referendum.
 ''To me, this is a temporary solution,'' Mr. Lauder said in an interview. ''I would imagine that the next time there's a referendum, I believe the voters will return to a two-term limit.
 ''I will fight for it very vigorously,'' he added. 
 And so, with the sun setting and the players adjourning for the Yom Kippur holiday, the latest chapter in the on-again, off-again political life of the enigmatic 64-year-old billionaire came to an abrupt end. 
 In the interview, Mr. Lauder acknowledged feeling disappointment about the term limits bill. But he said he felt it was for the city's good, describing the mayor as a man of ''brilliant'' ideas capable of leading New York City through a recession potentially more devastating than the fiscal crisis of the 1970s, in which the city nearly went bankrupt.
 ''I think we're damn lucky to have a mayor here who understands this stuff and who understands the city,'' he said.
 Though the issue of a third Bloomberg term had been raised publicly over the years, Mr. Lauder realized the seriousness of the mayor's intentions only when he was approached last month by Mr. Bloomberg's unofficial emissaries, including Richard D. Parsons, the former chief executive of Time Warner (who sits on the board of the Ronald S. Lauder Foundation); the developer Jerry I. Speyer; and the public relations executive Howard J. Rubenstein.
 It would appear that Mr. Lauder relished the courtship -- and the possibility of battle. He bankrolled a series of commercials that defended the current rules and compared politicians to dirty diapers in need of changing. 
 To some of Mr. Bloomberg's supporters, Mr. Lauder's steadfastness on the issue smacked of vanity. Mr. Lauder's friends deny that, saying he entered the fray because he genuinely views term limits as good policy. 
 But they also say that Mr. Lauder is a proud man who took personally the attacks on his legacy and the suggestions in some news stories that he was about to cave in on the issue. 
 ''He is fed up with politics, and when it did not work out for him, I think that maybe it was a lesson that he didn't need it anymore,'' said Rabbi Chaskel Besser of New York, a close friend who has been heavily involved in Mr. Lauder's philanthropic work with Jewish causes in Eastern Europe.
 ''But,'' Rabbi Besser added, ''he believes in what is just, and he does not like to change his mind. He did, because of Bloomberg. But when they said he gave in personally, he got angry.''
 As the younger son of the cosmetics mogul Estee Lauder, Mr. Lauder's story is one of riches to riches, though, unlike his more polished brother, Leonard, he can be awkward and talks with a heavy New York accent. And while Leonard built and has continued to tend to the family business, Ronald left it in 1983 -- in part, it was said at the time, to escape the shadow of his older brother -- and ventured into politics. 
 He once confided to executives of his family's firm that one day he would become the first Jewish president of the United States. He got his start in New York politics supporting Alfonse M. D'Amato's successful challenge to Senator Jacob K. Javits in 1980. He and his family would remain close allies of Mr. D'Amato for years, liberally subsidizing the state Republican Party that Mr. D'Amato controlled. 
 Mr. D'Amato said that Mr. Lauder has been ''underestimated'' by New York's political and social establishment. ''Because maybe he's not the best communicator, and he appears at times not to have a good grasp or be able to articulate his positions,'' Mr. D'Amato said. ''But I know him to be a man of deep intellectual curiosity.''
 In 1983, Mr. Lauder was rewarded for his campaign fund-raising with an appointment as deputy assistant defense secretary in the Reagan administration and, three years later, by being named ambassador to Austria, a post he held for 18 months.
 Early in 1989, with Senator D'Amato's nemesis, Rudolph W. Giuliani, emerging as the likely Republican mayoral candidate, Mr. Lauder was enlisted by Mr. D'Amato as a challenger. Defying convention, he declared his candidacy for mayor of New York City in Albany.
 During the campaign, Mr. Lauder's first political outing, he was ridiculed by Mr. Giuliani, who repeatedly dismissed him as ''Ronnie'' and derided him as ''the laughingstock of Vienna.''
 Mr. Lauder spent more than $12 million of his own fortune on the mayoral primary campaign, a record at the time. He won 36,905 votes, at $350 each, to Mr. Giuliani's 75,520. Mr. Lauder remained on the Conservative Party line in the general election, but spent much of the fall in Europe. He was outpolled by Henry Hewes, the Right to Life Party candidate, who spent a little more than $10,000 on his entire campaign.
 Mr. Giuliani blamed his narrow loss to David N. Dinkins that November on Mr. Lauder's ferocious primary campaign.
 Four years later, Mr. Lauder decided to bankroll a campaign for term limits, apparently after reading a news article about the City Council's profligacy. 
 Even as the political establishment dismissed him as a dilettante frittering away the family's fortune, Mr. Lauder spent $4 million of his own money: to get the referendum passed and then to defend it three years later.
 With those victories, Mr. Lauder seemed content to drop out of politics, throwing his attention and assets into philanthropy, art and Jewish causes, particularly in Central and Eastern Europe. He is president of the World Jewish Congress and for many years was chairman of the Museum of Modern Art. 
 He said that since 1987, when he established the principal foundation in his name, he had given ''hundreds and hundreds of millions'' of dollars to charity. He is also chairman of Clinique and of Central European Media Enterprises, a broadcasting company he created. 
 In 2001, he opened the Neue Galerie on East 86th Street, a museum dedicated to German and Austrian art and whose centerpiece is Gustav Klimt's ''Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer,'' for which Mr. Lauder paid a record-setting $135 million in 2006.
 Along the way, he has been at the center of some controversies. Long a champion of returning Nazi-looted artworks to their rightful heirs, has come under criticism for declining to document the provenance of some German and Austrian art in his collection. 
 ''It's my private collection,'' he told The New York Times last year. ''Would it be O.K. for people to see what dresses you have in your closet?''
 New York's business leaders, including Mr. Speyer and the financier Henry R. Kravis, began approaching Mr. Lauder as long as two years ago to persuade him not to fight a one-time extension of term limits, but he turned them down, according to directors of the Partnership for New York City, the business group that has been lobbying for extending term limits. Mr. Lauder even resisted entreaties from his own brother.
 But he left the door open for further discussions with Mr. Bloomberg himself. They met for breakfast last month, and then in a follow-up phone call from the mayor, Mr. Lauder agreed not to oppose legislation to temporarily extend the two-term limit, for the 2009 election only. 
 City lawyers balked at that arrangement, however, warning that a one-shot extension by the incumbents who would benefit from it might be vulnerable to court challenge. Mr. Lauder felt betrayed. Not until Wednesday's meeting at Gracie Mansion, where Mr. Bloomberg described the economic crisis as dire, did Mr. Lauder relent.
 Allen Roth, an adviser to Mr. Lauder since his 1989 campaign, said that the city's power brokers were also mystified by his support for term limits in 1993. ''They did not understand why he did it,'' Mr. Roth said. ''It's really very simple. He believes in it. It's coming from his heart. He's not winning any friends.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ronald S. Lauder is known for philanthropy and art collecting, but his major achievement, now in doubt, was term limits.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PASCAL LAUENER/REUTERS)(pg. A33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (91%); MAYORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICS (89%); CITIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COSMETICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHARITIES (76%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); YOM KIPPUR (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); RICHARD D PARSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



360 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: U.S. MAY TAKE OWNERSHIP STAKE IN BANKS TO EASE CREDIT CRISIS

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Having tried without success to unlock frozen credit markets, the Treasury Department is considering taking ownership stakes in many United States banks to try to restore confidence in the financial system, according to government officials.
Treasury officials say the just-passed $700 billion bailout bill gives them the authority to inject cash directly into banks that request it. Such a move would quickly strengthen banks' balance sheets and, officials hope, persuade them to resume lending. In return, the law gives the Treasury the right to take ownership positions in banks, including healthy ones.
The Treasury plan was still preliminary and it was unclear how the process would work, but it appeared that it would be voluntary for banks.
The proposal resembles one announced on Wednesday in Britain. Under that plan, the British government would offer banks like the Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays and HSBC Holdings up to $87 billion to shore up their capital in exchange for preference shares. It also would provide a guarantee of about $430 billion to help banks refinance debt. 
The American recapitalization plan, officials say, has emerged as one of the most favored new options being discussed in Washington and on Wall Street. The appeal is that it would directly address the worries that banks have about lending to one another and to other customers.
This new interest in direct investment in banks comes after yet another tumultuous day in which the Federal Reserve and five other central banks marshaled their combined firepower to cut interest rates but failed to stanch the global financial panic.
In a coordinated action, the central banks reduced their benchmark interest rates by one-half percentage point. On top of that, the Bank of England announced its plan to nationalize part of the British banking system and devote almost $500 billion to guarantee financial transactions between banks.
The coordinated rate cut was unprecedented and surprising. Never before has the Fed issued an announcement on interest rates jointly with another central bank, let alone five other central banks, including the People's Bank of China.
Yet the world's markets hardly seemed comforted. Credit markets on Wednesday remained almost as stalled as the day before. Stock prices, which had plunged in Europe and Asia before the announcement, continued to plummet afterward. And stock prices in the United States went on a roller-coaster ride, at the end of which the Dow Jones industrial average was down 189 points, or 2 percent.
On Thursday, shares rebounded somewhat in Europe, with many exchanges up more than one percent, but Asian markets were mixed.
The gloomy market response on Monday sent policy makers and outside experts on a scramble for additional remedies to stabilize the banks and reassure investors.
There is no shortage of ideas, ranging from the partial nationalization proposal to a guarantee by the Fed of all lending between banks.
Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential candidate, on Wednesday refined his proposal -- revealed in a debate with the Democratic nominee, Senator Barack Obama, the night before -- to allow millions of Americans to refinance their mortgages with government assistance.
As Washington casts about for Plan B, investors are clamoring for the Fed to lower interest rates to nearly zero. Some are also calling for governments worldwide to provide another round of economic stimulus through expensive public works projects.
Yet behind the scramble for solutions lies a hard reality: the financial crisis has mutated into a global downturn that economists warn will be painful and protracted, and for which there is no quick cure.
''Everyone is conditioned to getting instant relief from the medicine, and that is unrealistic,'' said Allen Sinai, president of Decision Economics, a forecasting firm in Lexington, Mass. ''As hard as it is for investors and jobholders and politicians in an election year, this crisis will not end without a lot more pain.''
One concern about the Treasury's bailout plan is that it calls for limits on executive pay when capital is directly injected into a bank. The law directs Treasury officials to write compensation standards that would discourage executives from taking ''unnecessary and excessive risks'' and that would allow the government to recover any bonus pay that is based on stated earnings that turn out to be inaccurate. In addition, any bank in which the Treasury holds a stake would be barred from paying its chief executive a ''golden parachute'' package.
Treasury officials worry that aggressive government purchases, if not done properly, could alarm bank shareholders by appearing to be punitive or could be interpreted by the market as a sign that target banks were failing.
At a news conference on Wednesday, the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., pointedly named the Treasury's new authority to inject capital into institutions as the first in a list of new powers included in the bailout law.
''We will use all the tools we've been given to maximum effectiveness,'' Mr. Paulson said, ''including strengthening the capitalization of financial institutions of every size.''
The idea is gaining support even among longtime Republican policy makers who have spent most of their careers defending laissez-faire economic policies.
''The problem is the uncertainty that people have about doing business with banks, and banks have about doing business with each other,'' said William Poole, a staunchly free-market Republican who stepped down as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis on Aug. 31. ''We need to eliminate that uncertainty as fast as we can, and one way to do that is by injecting capital directly into banks. I think it could be done very quickly.''
Mr. Paulson acknowledged that the flurry of emergency steps had done little to break the cycle of fear and mistrust, and he pleaded for patience.
''The turmoil will not end quickly,'' Mr. Paulson told reporters on Wednesday. ''Neither the passage of this law nor the implementation of these initiatives will bring an immediate end to the current difficulties.''
Mr. Paulson will play host to finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 7 countries this Friday. But he cautioned against expecting a grand plan to emerge from the gathering.
More likely, the participants will compare notes about the measures they are adopting in their own countries. David H. McCormick, Treasury's under secretary for international affairs, said there was no ''one size fits all'' remedy for the crisis, though countries were cooperating through the coordinated cuts in interest rates, with guarantees on bank deposits and in regulations.
At the Federal Reserve in Washington, officials insisted they had not run out of options and made it clear they were willing to do whatever it took to shore up the economy.
Fed officials increasingly talk about the challenge they face with a phrase that President Bush used in another context: ''regime change.''
This regime change refers to a change in the economic environment so radical that, at least for a while, economic policy makers will need to suspend what are usually sacred principles: minimal interference in free markets, gradualism and predictability.
In the last month, both the Treasury and the Fed took extraordinary steps toward nationalizing three of the biggest financial companies in the country. Last month, the Treasury took over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant government-sponsored mortgage-finance companies that were on the brink of collapse. A week later, the Fed took control of the American International Group, the failing insurance conglomerate, in exchange for agreeing to lend it $85 billion.
On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve announced that it would lend A.I.G. an additional $37.8 billion.
But neither the individual corporate bailouts nor the Fed's enormous emergency lending programs -- including up to $900 billion through its Term Auction Facility for banks -- have succeeded in jump-starting the credit markets.
''The core problem is that the smart people are realizing that the banking system is broken,'' said Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics. ''Nobody knows who is holding the tainted assets, how much they have and how it affects their balance sheets. So nobody is willing to believe that anybody else isn't insolvent, until it's proven otherwise.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''We will use all the tools we've been given to maximum effectiveness,'' Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said, ''including strengthening the capitalization of financial institutions.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KLEPONIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain addressing the House of Commons on Wednesday. The British government was the first to announce a sweeping plan to partly nationalize banks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A30) CHART: Federal Reserve
Treasury Department: Some major steps this year by the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department. Chart details timeline. (A1)
 Activist Fed: As the financial crisis has unfolded, the Federal Reserve, in addition to making a series of interest rate cuts, has taken on an increasingly activist role in the markets.(Source: Bloomberg (rate cuts)) Chart details timeline for FEDERAL FUNDS TARGET RATE. (pg. A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (63%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (90%); HSB (PAR) (90%); HBC (NYSE) (90%); 0005 (HKSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (85%); RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GORDON BROWN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



361 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Leaders in California Look for Answers to Credit Crunch

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO 

 BODY:
With the fiscal health of the nation's most populous state in serious decline, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and California legislative leaders promised Wednesday that, despite their differences, they would find the billions of dollars need to avert drastic cuts in services.
 After meeting for a little over an hour they emerged from Mr. Schwarzenegger's office shoulder to shoulder but, acknowledging the glare of the financial world, not to mention taxpayers, disclosing little of their discussions beyond vowing to continue meeting. 
 ''We want to make sure we are together as a team,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said outside his office, standing with leaders with whom he engaged in a protracted battle over a budget that was adopted last month 85 days overdue and is already falling into imbalance.
 Aides to the leaders said it was important to quell any concern in financial markets that the political discord so common here would stymie efforts to pay back the short-term loans the state is poised to seek and right the state's finances.
 After confronting a credit freeze last week that deprived California of up to $7 billion in short-term borrowing needed to pay its day-to-day bills, Bill Lockyer, the state treasurer, said he would seek $4 billion in the market next week. An additional $3 billion might be sought later.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger had warned the Treasury Department that California might need an emergency loan to cover its expenses, but troublesome legal issues have emerged over such assistance, and the leaders emphasized to reporters the need to secure the borrowing.
 ''The immediate action is the RAN,'' said the Democratic Assembly speaker, Karen Bass, using shorthand for ''revenue anticipation notes,'' the kind of borrowing the state is seeking in the market.
 A glimmer of hope that the borrowing in the market would find success arrived Wednesday when Massachusetts, which like California has discussed a loan from the federal government, was able to sell $750 million worth of bonds to help pay its bills. The sale had been postponed twice in the past two weeks and was taken as a sign of thawing in the market.
 John V. Miller, chief investment officer at Nuveen Asset Management, a municipal bond investment firm, said, ''It's definitely evidence of an improvement, but it's not enough to say that things are back to normal, or that they're permanently fixed.''
 But the economic downturn continues to assault the finances of California, the world's sixth-largest economy, and that of several other states.
 Revenue in its budget is running short at least $1 billion, and possibly much more, as collection from sources like sales taxes and real estate transactions plummet as buyers close their wallets. Mr. Schwarzenegger plans to appear in ''Buy California Bonds'' radio advertisements in the coming days to encourage investors.
 The budget, balanced largely on accounting maneuvers and optimistic revenue projections, may take another hit with a federal judge signaling this week that the state may need to come up with $3.5 billion, or at least part of it, for prison health care projects, stemming from a court case.
 Nationwide, while states' revenue from taxes increased 1.5 percent over all in the second quarter, adjusted for inflation, that stream of money is expected to slacken considerably the rest of the year as consumers and corporations spend much less because of the economic turmoil.
 The price of goods and services for states, meanwhile, is rising faster than inflation.
 ''Below the surface, great trouble is brewing,'' said David Boyd, a senior fellow at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government, which issued a report on the trends on Tuesday.
 ''Some states have already made midyear budget cuts, and more widespread cuts are virtually certain as revenues deteriorate further.''
 Altogether, about 15 states are reporting midyear budget gaps, including Arizona, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Ohio and New York. The shortfalls total about $6 billion, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research group in Washington.
 Illinois, for instance, is confronting a $200 million shortfall in tax revenue, attributed in part to consumers driving down sales tax revenue by holding off on shopping and tighter real estate tax collections as the housing market struggles.
 ''People don't want to spend money during difficult times,'' said Kelley Quinn, a spokeswoman for Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich. Already, the Illinois budget had a $1.5 billion deficit, and officials planned to close some state parks and historic sites and cut other services to erase it.
 As in California, lawmakers in many states are struggling to right their finances while avoiding raising taxes.
 Gov. Sonny Perdue of Georgia, facing a deficit of more than $2 billion, a tenth of the state budget, has asked agencies to come up with cuts across the board, said Alan Essig, executive director of the Georgia Budget and Policy Institute, a nonpartisan group that studies fiscal affairs.
 But taxes are virtually ''off the table,'' Mr. Essig said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BONDS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SALES TAX (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (60%); RADIO ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%); KAREN BASS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



362 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Saved By The Deficit?

BYLINE: By ROBERT B. REICH. 
Robert B. Reich, a secretary of labor under , President Bill Clinton and a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author of ''Supercapitalism.''

DATELINE: Berkeley, Calif. 

 BODY:
 BOTH presidential candidates have been criticized for failing -- at Tuesday's debate and previously -- to name any promises or plans they're going to have to scrap because of the bailout and the failing economy. That criticism is unwarranted. The assumption that we are about to have a rerun of 1993 -- when Bill Clinton, newly installed as president, was forced to jettison much of his agenda because of a surging budget deficit -- may well be mistaken. 
 At first glance, January 2009 is starting to look a lot like January 1993. Then, the federal deficit was running at roughly $300 billion a year, or about 5 percent of gross domestic product, way too high for comfort. By contrast, the deficit for the 2009 fiscal year is now projected to be $410 billion, or about 3.3 percent of gross domestic product. That's not too worrying. But if the Treasury shovels out the full $700 billion of bailout money next year, the deficit could balloon to more than 6 percent of gross domestic product, the highest since 1983. And if the nation plunges into a deeper recession, with tax revenues dropping and domestic product shrinking, the deficit will be even larger as a proportion of the economy. 
 Yet all is not what it seems. First, the $700 billion bailout is less like an additional government expense than a temporary loan or investment. The Treasury will take on Wall Street's bad debts -- mostly mortgage-backed securities for which there's no market right now -- and will raise the $700 billion by issuing additional government debt, much of it to global lenders and foreign governments. As America's housing stock regains value, as we all hope it will, bad debts become better debts, and the Treasury will be able to resell the securities for at least as much as it paid, if not for a profit. And if there is a shortfall, the bailout bill allows the president to impose a fee on Wall Street to fill it.
 Another difference is that in 1993, the nation was emerging from a recession. Although jobs were slow to return, factory orders were up and the economy was growing. This meant growing demand for private capital. Under these circumstances, the deficit Bill Clinton inherited threatened to overheat the economy. He had no choice but to trim it, a point that the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, was not reluctant to emphasize. Unless President Clinton cut the deficit and abandoned much of his agenda, interest rates would rise and the economic recovery would be anemic.
 Next year, however, is likely to be quite different. All economic indicators are now pointing toward a deepening recession. Unemployment is already high, and the trend is not encouraging. Factory orders are down. Worried about their jobs and rising costs of fuel, food and health insurance, middle-class Americans are unable or unwilling to spend on much other than necessities.
 Under these circumstances, deficit spending is not unwelcome. Indeed, as spender of last resort, the government will probably have to run deficits to keep the economy going anywhere near capacity, a lesson the nation learned when mobilization for World War II finally lifted us out of the Great Depression.
 Finally, not all deficits are equal. As every family knows, going into debt in order to send a child to college is fundamentally different from going into debt to take an ocean cruise. Deficits that finance investments in the nation's future are not the same as deficits that maintain the current standard of living. 
 Here again, there's marked difference between 1993 and 2009. Then, some of our highways, bridges, levees and transit systems needed repair. Today, they are crumbling. In 1993, some of our children were in classrooms too crowded to learn in, and some districts were shutting preschool and after-school programs. Today, such inadequacies are endemic. In 1993, some 35 million Americans had no health insurance and millions more were barely able to afford it. Today, 50 million are without insurance, and a large swath of the middle class is barely holding on. In 1993, climate change was a problem. Now, it's an emergency.
 Moreover, without adequate public investment, the vast majority of Americans will be condemned to a lower standard of living for themselves and their children. The top 1 percent now takes home about 20 percent of total national income. As recently as 1980, it took home 8 percent. Although the economy has grown considerably since 1980, the middle class's share has shrunk. That's a problem not just because it strikes so many as being unfair, but also because it's starting to limit the capacity of most Americans to buy the goods and services we produce without going deep into debt. The last time the top 1 percent took home 20 percent of national income, not incidentally, was 1928. 
 Perhaps it should not be surprising, then, that the Wall Street bailout has generated so much anger among middle-class Americans. Let's not compound the problem by needlessly letting it prevent the government from spending what it must to lift the prospects of Main Street.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL WIENS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (84%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



363 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Bid to Extend Term Limits, Politician by Politician

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
They are angling for the magic number: 26. That is how many City Council members it would take to defeat a bill introduced on Tuesday, at Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's request, to change the city's term limits law. 
 On Wednesday, they took to the streets -- a band of volunteers and organizers with the Working Families Party, which is spearheading a campaign against the bill. 
 Clipboards in hand, they approached passers-by and asked, ''Do you have a minute for term limits?'' and tried to persuade them to sign a petition. 
 To the party's members, the issue is not the term limits law itself, but how it should be changed. In their opinion, it ought to be changed the same way it was passed: by referendum.
 ''Our issue is not about whether the mayor should run for a third term,'' one canvasser, Sarah Abernathy, 27, told a man in jeans and workman's boots. ''It's just really about leaving it up to voters to decide whether there should be a third term.''
 The move to extend term limits through legislation, allowing city elected officials to stay in office for 12 years, instead of 8, has been viewed broadly as a carefully orchestrated maneuver between Mayor Bloomberg and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, both of whom have in the past opposed tinkering with the current law. 
 The Working Families Party, which has among its members some of the city's largest unions, has chosen to resist the move by putting pressure on individual council members, holding protests on the steps of City Hall and fanning across their districts. The goal is to get a majority of the 51 members to vote no on the bill.
 ''We're going to give it our all to claw away those 26 votes,'' said Dan Cantor, the party's executive director.
 But on Wednesday, the first day of a petition drive, Mayor Bloomberg and Ronald S. Lauder, the billionaire cosmetics heir who twice financed referendums setting terms limits for city elected officials, agreed that Mr. Lauder would support the mayor's plan to extend term limits this time around. 
 ''This kind of deal does have the whiff of class warfare almost, where the voices of two billionaires meeting privately substitutes for millions of regular people having a chance to vote,'' Mr. Cantor said.
 He added that the party had been raising money and that he was confident it would be able to spend several hundred thousand dollars, ''maybe half a million dollars,'' on a media campaign -- online and possibly on the radio, but probably not on television.
 Hours before the deal, outside the gates of City Hall on Broadway and on the streets of Chinatown, about 20 canvassers approached pedestrians, collecting page after page of signatures for a petition aimed at the area's councilman, Alan J. Gerson. 
 It was the first of several petition drives that the Working Families Party plans to hold in the coming days, concentrating primarily on council members who have not yet taken a position on the term limits bill, like Mr. Gerson and Speaker Quinn, who said in December that she was against changing the limits, but who now says she is no longer sure what to do.
 In an interview on Wednesday, Mr. Gerson said that he had always been a proponent of extending term limits through a referendum held on Election Day. ''But the mayor waited until it was too late to put the question on the ballot this November,'' he said.
 Councilman Gerson added, ''My colleagues and I are now left in the difficult position of weighing the needs of the city in this time of financial crisis versus the cost of holding a special election so that voters can have their say.''
 Outside City Hall, whenever the canvassers succeeded in getting someone to hear them out, which was often, many of the responses sounded like that of Francine Civello, 46, an actress who lives on nearby Harrison Street. ''I like the mayor,'' Ms. Civello said. ''But in spite of all the good he might do to the city in another four years in office, it should be up to the people to decide if he should have the right to run again.''
 Macallister Wells, 33, a copy machine salesman who lives in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, put it a bit more bluntly: ''Doing a good job doesn't mean you can bully your way into a third term.''
 Some of the respondents stopped and signed the petition right away. Others took more time, sometimes reading aloud the words at the top of the page: ''Whether you're for them or against them, setting term limits should be up to voters alone. Councilman Gerson, we want you to respect our vote!''
 One woman, Raisa Gonchar, first said she would not sign, but turned around after just a few steps and told the volunteer who had approached her, 16-year-old Olivia Mata, ''I changed my mind.''
 Ms. Gonchar, 70, who moved to the city from the Soviet Union 20 years ago, praised Mr. Bloomberg's leadership after the attacks of Sept. 11. ''The way he helped the economy, no one else could do that,'' she said.
 ''I want him to help the economy again,'' she added, ''but to decide if he can be mayor a third time, it has to be the people.''
 Mr. Cantor, of the Working Families Party, said that the party would also send e-mail messages to voters, urging them to sign the online petition at www.itsourdecision.org, the Web site it created this week. He estimated that the messages will have landed in 90,000 in-boxes by early Thursday and could reach as many as half a million people by the end of the week as they are forwarded by the unions, tenant associations and civic groups affiliated with the party.
 There will also be phone drives and visits to voters' homes, all with the same purpose, Mr. Cantor said.
 ''We think that momentum is shifting our way,'' he said. ''And we're going to fight as hard as we can to capitalize on that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Working Families Party canvassers sought signatures on Wednesday near City Hall. The goal: to pressure individual council members to vote against the measure.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); PETITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (85%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REFERENDUMS (73%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



364 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Can This Be Pro-Life?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
The Bush administration this month is quietly cutting off birth control supplies to some of the world's poorest women in Africa.
 Thus the paradox of a ''pro-life'' administration adopting a policy whose result will be tens of thousands of additional abortions each year -- along with more women dying in childbirth.
 The saga also spotlights a clear difference between Barack Obama and John McCain. Senator Obama supports U.N.-led efforts to promote family planning; Senator McCain stands with President Bush in opposing certain crucial efforts to help women reduce unwanted pregnancies in Africa and Asia. 
 There is something about reproductive health -- maybe the sex part -- that makes some Americans froth and go crazy. We see it in the opposition to condoms to curb AIDS in Africa and in the insistence on abstinence-only sex education in American classrooms (one reason American teenage pregnancy rates are more than double those in Canada). And we see it in the decision of some towns -- like Wasilla, Alaska, when Sarah Palin was mayor there -- to bill rape victims for the kits used to gather evidence of sex crimes. In most places, police departments pay for rape kits, which cost hundreds of dollars, but while Ms. Palin was mayor of Wasilla, the town decided to save money by billing rape victims.
 The latest bout of reproductive-health madness came in the last couple of weeks when the U.S. Agency for International Development ordered six African countries to ensure that no U.S.-financed condoms, birth control pills, I.U.D.'s or other contraceptives are furnished to Marie Stopes International, a British-based aid group that operates clinics in poor countries.
 The Bush administration says it took this action because Marie Stopes International works with the U.N. Population Fund in China. President Bush has cut all financing for the population fund on the -- false -- basis that it supports China's family-planning program.
 It's true that China's one-child policy sometimes includes forced abortion, and when traveling in rural China, I still come across peasants whose homes have been knocked down as punishment for an unauthorized child. But the U.N. fund has been the most powerful force in moderating China's policy, and a State Department team itself found no evidence of any U.N. involvement in the coercion.
 Mr. Bush's defunding of the U.N. Population Fund -- backed by Senator McCain -- has persisted since 2002. What is new is the extension of that policy to a leading private family-planning organization like Marie Stopes International.
 ''The irony and hypocrisy of it is that this is a bone to the self-described 'pro-life' movement, but it will result in deaths to women who just want to space their births,'' said Dana Hovig, the chief executive of Marie Stopes International. The organization estimates that the result will be at least 157,000 additional unwanted pregnancies per year, leading to 62,000 additional abortions and 660 women dying in childbirth.
 That may overstate the impact. Kent Hill, an official of the U.S. aid agency, insists that there will be no increase in pregnancies because the American contraceptives will simply be routed to other aid groups in Africa.
 That will work to some degree in big cities. But it's a fantasy in rural Africa. Over the years, I've dropped in on a half-dozen Marie Stopes clinics, and in rural areas there's typically nothing else for many miles around. Women in the villages simply have no other source of family planning.
 ''This nearsighted maneuver will have direct and dire consequences,'' a group of prominent public health experts in America declared in an open letter, adding that the action ''will translate almost immediately into increased maternal death and disability.''
 Proponents of the cut-off are not misogynists. They are honestly outraged by forced abortions in China. But why take it out on the most impoverished and voiceless people on earth? Mr. McCain seems to have supported Mr. Bush, mostly out of instinct, and when a reporter asked him this spring whether American aid should finance contraceptives to fight AIDS in Africa, he initially said, ''I haven't thought about it,'' and later added, ''You've stumped me.''
 Retrograde decisions on reproductive health are reached in conference rooms in Washington, but I've seen how they play out in African villages. A young woman lies in a hut, bleeding to death or swollen by infection, as untrained midwives offer her water or herbs. Her husband and children wait anxiously outside the hut, their faces frozen and perspiring as her groans weaken.
 When she dies, her body is bundled in an old blanket and buried in a shallow hole, with brush piled on top to keep wild animals away. Her children sob and shriek and in the ensuing months they often endure neglect and are far more likely to die of hunger or disease.
 In some parts of Africa, a woman now has a 1-in-10 risk of dying in childbirth. The idea that U.S. policy may increase that toll is infuriating. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); SEX EDUCATION (90%); ABORTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); FAMILY PLANNING (76%); AIDS & HIV (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); POLICE FORCES (66%); FARM LABOR (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (94%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



365 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Basics Push Up Profit at Costco

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The warehouse-club operator Costco Wholesale Corporation said Wednesday that its quarterly profit rose 7 percent as consumers shopped for bargains in the tough economy. 
 Demand was strong for necessities like food and sundries but shoppers shied away from big-ticket items like furniture and jewelry, the company said.
 Costco said net income rose to $397.8 million, or 90 cents a share, from $372.4 million, or 83 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding one-time charges, net income was 97 cents a share for the quarter.
 Revenue in the quarter, which ended Aug. 31 and was the fourth quarter of Costco's fiscal year, rose 13 percent, to $23.1 billion, from $20.48 billion
 A Stifel Nicolaus & Company analyst, David Schick, wrote that warehouse clubs remained ''one of the better-positioned sectors in retail.'' 
 Stock in Costco, based in Issaquah, Wash., fell 74 cents, to $57.06 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%)

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (95%); STIFEL NICOLAUS & CO INC (70%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



366 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Taxpayers, Not Lenders, Would Bear Costs of McCain's Mortgage Proposal

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The homeowner assistance plan that Senator John McCain announced without detail in the presidential debate Tuesday night would allow millions of financially stretched Americans to refinance their mortgages with government help, but it would leave taxpayers to cover the losses, rather than the financial institutions that hold the original mortgages. 
 Mr. McCain said in the debate that the program would be expensive, and on Wednesday his chief economic adviser, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, acknowledged that the liability would be borne directly by taxpayers. 
 Mr. McCain, who has made cutting government spending a centerpiece of his campaign, justified the costs on Tuesday night by saying that ''until we stabilize home values in America, we're never going to start turning around and creating jobs and fixing our economy.''
 As Mr. Holtz-Eakin described it, the proposal would ensure that homeowners got direct and speedier help to stay in their residences before they faced foreclosure, so that Wall Street and financial institutions would not be the only direct beneficiaries of government aid. The new loans would be 30-year mortgages at fixed interest rates of just over 5 percent, he said. The McCain campaign did not make clear what level of financial strain an applicant would have to show to qualify for the program. 
 The campaign of Mr. McCain's Democratic rival, Senator Barack Obama, who had previously signaled support for similar approaches, condemned the proposal Wednesday. It said in a statement, ''The biggest beneficiaries of this plan will be the same financial institutions that got us into this mess, some of whom even committed fraud.''
 Beyond the costs, the proposal could encounter a backlash from voters, especially those who have had to work hard and sacrifice to keep current on their mortgage payments and who might resent bailing out fellow homeowners who got themselves into financial trouble. 
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin suggested that ''the taxpayers' contribution'' would be the price of getting the quickest possible relief to homeowners and arresting falling home values. Declining home values have led to rising defaults and foreclosures, which in turn have devalued trillions of dollars in housing-related assets for financial institutions and companies in the United States and abroad, threatening the businesses' survival and fueling a credit freeze that endangers the global economy.
 Though Mr. Holtz-Eakin spoke of the urgency for action, he said Mr. McCain did not propose the idea as part of the recent bailout negotiations between Congress and the White House. So it would not begin until after Mr. McCain, if elected, takes office in January and issues an executive order.
 The White House and the Treasury Department declined to comment on the McCain proposal, saying they did not have enough information. But they said existing programs were helping homeowners to avert foreclosures. 
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin noted that about 10 million Americans had mortgages that exceeded their homes' value. ''Literally millions of people'' could benefit, he said, adding, ''The question is how many people pick up the phone.''
 He said the process of applying for a replacement mortgage would be ''very simple,'' though clearly administering such a program would not be. Under the plan, homeowners could call a mortgage broker or lender to refinance their residences. If they passed a credit check, they would qualify for a Federal Housing Administration loan based on the reduced value of the homes, with lower principal and a lower interest rate.
 The government would pay off the original loan, Mr. Holtz-Eakin said. That would take the bad debt off the books of the institutions that made the original loans, or in the case of loans that were sold and repackaged as mortgage-backed securities, it would prevent further deterioration of their value.
 Assuming the homeowners ultimately paid off the new mortgages, the taxpayers' liability would be the difference between those mortgages and the original, more costly mortgages, Mr. Holtz-Eakin said.
 Mr. Holtz-Eakin corrected one detail from the brief outline that the campaign issued Tuesday night after the debate. That outline said the plan would cost roughly $300 billion, which, it said, could be drawn from the $700 billion provided in the financial rescue package that became law last week.
 But Mr. Holtz-Eakin said the financing could come from ''several pots of money'': the bailout money, the F.H.A.'s separate authority to refinance up to $300 billion in mortgages, or the mortgage-finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which the government now owns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



367 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: McCain Excites Crowds With Criticism of Obama

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: STRONGSVILLE, Ohio 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain devoted most of two campaign appearances on Wednesday to lusty attacks on Senator Barack Obama and gave less attention, and offered very few specifics, to the growing economic woes of American voters. 
 In both appearances, in this suburb of Cleveland and at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., Mr. McCain's stump speech followed the same pattern: In broad, quick strokes, he reiterated the economic proposal he raised at his debate with Mr. Obama on Tuesday night -- a ''homeownership resurgence plan,'' in which the government would buy mortgages directly from homeowners and mortgage services and replace them with what he called ''manageable'' mortgages.
 After that, he raced through promises of jobs, tax cuts, lower prices, better health care, a spending freeze and a balanced federal budget by the end of his first term. With that done, Mr. McCain then dived into the core of his speech, a lengthy, full-throated and crowd-pleasing criticism of Mr. Obama's record, character and judgment. 
 ''Who is the real Senator Obama?'' Mr. McCain asked in an increasingly sharp tone in Ohio, as Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska stood to his side. ''Is he the candidate who promises to cut middle-class taxes, or the politician who voted to raise middle-class taxes? Is he the candidate who talks about regulation or the politician who took money from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and turned a blind eye as they ran our economy into a ditch?''
 Mr. McCain has never been comfortable talking about the economy, and in these final weeks of his nearly two-year, second-time quest of the presidency, with polls showing him losing increasing ground to Mr. Obama, Mr. McCain and his advisers have made the calculation that negative attacks will move at least some voters. Certainly those attacks pump up crowds on the campaign trail, where it is the sharp criticism of Mr. Obama, rather than Mr. McCain's once-over comments on the economy, that draw the biggest, loudest response from the conservative and almost all-white crowds that come to see Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin.
 As the crowd booed angrily at each mention of Mr. Obama's name, Mr. McCain threw himself more vigorously into his speech. 
 ''Is he the candidate who promises change, or is he the politician who has bought into everything that is wrong with Washington?'' Mr. McCain said, then concluded, nearly shouting, ''We can't change the system with someone who's never fought the system.''
 Earlier in the day, Mr. McCain flatly told ''Hannity & Colmes'' on Fox News that Mr. Obama was not prepared to be president while Ms. Palin, in the same interview, said that Mr. Obama's association with the 1960s radical William Ayers and the convicted felon Antoin Rezko makes her ''question his judgment'' and ''who he would associate himself with in the future.''
 On Wednesday, Cindy McCain, Mr. McCain's wife, joined in the attacks, too, and in a departure from her normally mild public remarks told the crowd at Lehigh that Mr. Obama did not understand what it meant to have a son serving in Iraq, as she has had.
 ''The day that Senator Obama decided to cast a vote to not fund my son while he was serving sent a cold chill through my body, let me tell you,'' Mrs. McCain said. ''I would suggest that Senator Obama change shoes with me for just one day.'' Mrs. McCain was referring to a vote against troop financing that Mr. Obama cast in 2007 because the legislation did not include a timetable for withdrawal; Mr. Obama has voted for all other war-spending bills since he entered the Senate in 2005.
 At the same event, the Lehigh County Republican chairman, Bill Platt, twice referred to Mr. Obama from stage as ''Barack Hussein Obama.'' Mr. McCain and Ms. Palin had not yet arrived at the arena when Mr. Platt made his remarks, and the McCain-Palin campaign later disavowed them as ''inappropriate rhetoric.''
 Much of Mr. McCain's addresses on the economy are delivered to voters through the prism of his attacks on Mr. Obama. On Wednesday, Mr. McCain got into a relatively lengthy discourse on how the housing crisis started, but soon enough had placed Mr. Obama in a prominent role in the narrative of bad mortgages that had been backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 ''This corruption was encouraged by Democrats in Congress, and abetted by Senator Obama,'' Mr. McCain said, adding that ''as recently as September of last year he said that subprime loans had been, quote, a good idea. Well, Senator Obama, that good idea has now plunged this country into the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.''
 Mr. McCain also vowed to ''confront the $10-trillion-dollar debt that the federal government has run up and balance the federal budget by the end of my term in office,'' but in a slip of the tongue in Pennsylvania he then added, ''this is the agenda I have set before my fellow prisoners.'' 
 The prepared text of his remarks had called for him to say ''fellow citizens.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SENATOR JOHN McCAIN: At Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); SARAH PALIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



368 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Role Elevates U.S. Official

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE and BEN WHITE; A Times reporter, Julie Creswell, and a researcher, Kitty Bennett, contributed to this article.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For months, as Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. traveled to Capitol Hill to testify about the unfolding financial crisis, he has been shadowed by a man with a shaved head and intense eyes who many assumed was a Secret Service agent.
But much of the political and financial world was surprised to learn this week that the man was Neel T. Kashkari, 35, a former Goldman Sachs investment banker whom Mr. Paulson has tapped to oversee the $700 billion bailout effort as interim assistant secretary for financial stability.
Mr. Kashkari, who has only six years of experience in finance and government, said he knew he seemed young to be shouldering so much responsibility for the world's financial stability. But, he said, Mr. Paulson will oversee every step he takes.
''This project is Secretary Paulson's highest priority,'' Mr. Kashkari said in an interview on Wednesday. ''He is all over it. Our team is just executing his strategy.'' 
Even so, some experts question whether Mr. Kashkari is up to the job.
Samuel L. Hayes, an emeritus professor of finance at Harvard Business School, said Mr. Kashkari will face tremendous pressures. If the Treasury Department pays too little for troubled loans, that will not help banks' balance sheets, but if it pays too much, it will attract fierce scrutiny from members of Congress and others convinced that the bailout is a giveaway to the rich, he said.
''It's amazing to me that a guy who is only six years out of business school has been given this kind of assignment, because it would be an enormous challenge for someone with 30 years of experience,'' Mr. Hayes said.
Adding to the pressure, critics are already raising questions about potential conflicts of interest in the government's plan to hire large financial firms to handle the transactions.
More than 100 asset managers submitted bids to Mr. Kashkari on Wednesday, seeking to manage parts of the portfolio that the Treasury Department will eventually acquire, according to two industry representatives who have been in contact with Treasury officials. Goldman Sachs was among the bidders but it offered to provide its services free of charge. Mr. Kashkari declined to talk about the bids.
Mr. Kashkari and Mr. Paulson have worked closely together since leaving Goldman Sachs and arriving at the Treasury Department on the same day in July 2006 -- even though they hardly knew each other before then.
Mr. Paulson was based in New York as the investment bank's chief executive. Mr. Kashkari worked in San Francisco, where he was one of the firm's many hundreds of vice presidents -- a title given nearly automatically to associates who have been there several years.
In early 2006, Mr. Kashkari said, his supervisor at the time helped him set up a meeting with Mr. Paulson to talk about his experience as an official in the Nixon administration and Mr. Kashkari's interest in government service.
Mr. Kashkari, a Republican, said Mr. Paulson was encouraging. A few months later, when President Bush asked Mr. Paulson to serve as Treasury secretary, Mr. Kashkari said he called him, reminded him of their conversation, and asked for a job.
Mr. Paulson hired him as his special assistant, a kind of handyman position for which he took on a series of projects that caught the secretary's interest. He shared a cramped office with another junior official.
Mr. Paulson soon put him in charge of an effort to have mortgage holders voluntarily change financing terms in order to prevent foreclosures. The program met with only mixed success, but a Treasury spokeswoman said that it was never intended to be a ''silver bullet,'' given the complexity of the overall problem.
This summer, Mr. Kashkari was promoted, winning Senate confirmation to be assistant secretary for international economics. Among other things, he has focused on working with American banks toward adoption of a less-risky system of mortgage-based bonds that is popular in Europe. And he moved to a larger office, with room for sofas and photos of his favorite ski slopes around Lake Tahoe.
As the crisis unfolded in recent months, Mr. Kashkari worked long hours alongside Mr. Paulson, helping to deal with the bailouts of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the American International Group in turn, while working in secret on what became the $700 billion rescue package -- a project code-named Break the Glass because it was to be used only as a last-resort emergency measure.
Late last week, as Congress prepared to vote on the bailout package, Mr. Paulson gathered his top aides in his office to discuss how to get the program up and running for the next administration to take over.
Mr. Kashkari said that when Mr. Paulson told the aides, ''I want Neel to run this,'' he was honored but not surprised, given their close working relationship.
His reply was simple, he recalled: ''I said 'O.K.' ''
Mr. Kashkari, who grew up near Akron, Ohio, is a first-generation Indian-American. His parents had grown up in poverty in the Kashmir region of India before becoming an engineer and a doctor and coming to the United States.
Mr. Kashkari's older sister, Meera Kashkari Kelley, said in an interview that the experiences of their parents shaped their childhoods.
''They ingrained in us the perspective that our origins were relatively poor,'' she said. ''I think that gave us a great appreciation for the opportunities that people have in this country.''
Mr. Kashkari stood out in his family. While everyone else leaned liberal, his sister said, he gravitated toward free-market Republican views.
As a high school student at the Western Reserve Academy in Hudson, Ohio, Mr. Kashkari excelled in math and was chosen by his classmates to be the graduation speaker.
After high school, Mr. Kashkari initially opted for an engineering career, earning an undergraduate and master's degree from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He also met his wife, Minal, a mechanical engineer who works on NASA projects, on campus.
Mr. Kashkari worked for several years as a satellite engineer for TRW before earning an M.B.A. from the Wharton School.
''Neel was one of the strongest students in my class,'' said Anjani Jain, the vice dean and director of the graduate division. ''I remember him fondly as a gentle but persuasive student. He got a lot done.''
After graduating in 2002, Mr. Kashkari joined Goldman Sachs, where he specialized in helping start-up computer security companies get financing or sell themselves to larger companies.
One was FrontBridge Technologies, an e-mail security company that Mr. Kashkari worked with for several years. He helped the company with its acquisition by Microsoft in August 2005 for several hundred million dollars, according to Steve Jillings, its former chief executive. (The terms of the deal were not publicly disclosed.)
Bradford Koenig, now retired, who ran Mr. Kashkari's technology banking group at Goldman Sachs, said their interaction was ''a very positive experience.'' But, he added, they had relatively little contact because Mr. Kashkari was a junior banker.
Now, Mr. Kashkari's skills in working with powerful people will be tested. David Smith, chief economist for the House Financial Services Committee, said that despite concerns over his age, Mr. Kashkari is ''a serious guy.'' Still, he said, Congress will watch his decisions very closely.
''It's not simply that he's never done it before -- no one has ever done it before,'' he said. ''So scrutiny will be and should be intense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Neel Kashkari was once a Goldman Sachs banker.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAUREN VICTORIA BURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
Neel Kashkari, far left in second row, sat with Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and other federal officials as they met with Congressional leaders Sept. 18.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MITCH DUMKE/REUTERS)
Mr. Kashkari, an assistant Treasury secretary, with Mr. Paulson at a late meeting on Capitol Hill on Sept. 25, left, and in an office chat.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED STATES TREASURY DEPARTMENT, VIA REUTERS) (pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (70%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



369 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE RECKONING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2934 words

HEADLINE: Taking Hard New Look at a Greenspan Legacy

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
''Not only have individual financial institutions become less vulnerable to shocks from underlying risk factors, but also the financial system as a whole has become more resilient.'' -- Alan Greenspan in 2004
George Soros, the prominent financier, avoids using the financial contracts known as derivatives ''because we don't really understand how they work.'' Felix G. Rohatyn, the investment banker who saved New York from financial catastrophe in the 1970s, described derivatives as potential ''hydrogen bombs.''
And Warren E. Buffett presciently observed five years ago that derivatives were ''financial weapons of mass destruction, carrying dangers that, while now latent, are potentially lethal.'' 
One prominent financial figure, however, has long thought otherwise. And his views held the greatest sway in debates about the regulation and use of derivatives -- exotic contracts that promised to protect investors from losses, thereby stimulating riskier practices that led to the financial crisis. For more than a decade, the former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has fiercely objected whenever derivatives have come under scrutiny in Congress or on Wall Street. ''What we have found over the years in the marketplace is that derivatives have been an extraordinarily useful vehicle to transfer risk from those who shouldn't be taking it to those who are willing to and are capable of doing so,'' Mr. Greenspan told the Senate Banking Committee in 2003. ''We think it would be a mistake'' to more deeply regulate the contracts, he added.
Today, with the world caught in an economic tempest that Mr. Greenspan recently described as ''the type of wrenching financial crisis that comes along only once in a century,'' his faith in derivatives remains unshaken.
The problem is not that the contracts failed, he says. Rather, the people using them got greedy. A lack of integrity spawned the crisis, he argued in a speech a week ago at Georgetown University, intimating that those peddling derivatives were not as reliable as ''the pharmacist who fills the prescription ordered by our physician.''
But others hold a starkly different view of how global markets unwound, and the role that Mr. Greenspan played in setting up this unrest.
''Clearly, derivatives are a centerpiece of the crisis, and he was the leading proponent of the deregulation of derivatives,'' said Frank Partnoy, a law professor at the University of San Diego and an expert on financial regulation.
The derivatives market is $531 trillion, up from $106 trillion in 2002 and a relative pittance just two decades ago. Theoretically intended to limit risk and ward off financial problems, the contracts instead have stoked uncertainty and actually spread risk amid doubts about how companies value them.
If Mr. Greenspan had acted differently during his tenure as Federal Reserve chairman from 1987 to 2006, many economists say, the current crisis might have been averted or muted.
Over the years, Mr. Greenspan helped enable an ambitious American experiment in letting market forces run free. Now, the nation is confronting the consequences.
Derivatives were created to soften -- or in the argot of Wall Street, ''hedge'' -- investment losses. For example, some of the contracts protect debt holders against losses on mortgage securities. (Their name comes from the fact that their value ''derives'' from underlying assets like stocks, bonds and commodities.) Many individuals own a common derivative: the insurance contract on their homes.
On a grander scale, such contracts allow financial services firms and corporations to take more complex risks that they might otherwise avoid -- for example, issuing more mortgages or corporate debt. And the contracts can be traded, further limiting risk but also increasing the number of parties exposed if problems occur.
Throughout the 1990s, some argued that derivatives had become so vast, intertwined and inscrutable that they required federal oversight to protect the financial system. In meetings with federal officials, celebrated appearances on Capitol Hill and heavily attended speeches, Mr. Greenspan banked on the good will of Wall Street to self-regulate as he fended off restrictions.
Ever since housing began to collapse, Mr. Greenspan's record has been up for revision. Economists from across the ideological spectrum have criticized his decision to let the nation's real estate market continue to boom with cheap credit, courtesy of low interest rates, rather than snuffing out price increases with higher rates. Others have criticized Mr. Greenspan for not disciplining institutions that lent indiscriminately.
But whatever history ends up saying about those decisions, Mr. Greenspan's legacy may ultimately rest on a more deeply embedded and much less scrutinized phenomenon: the spectacular boom and calamitous bust in derivatives trading.
Faith in the System
Some analysts say it is unfair to blame Mr. Greenspan because the crisis is so sprawling. ''The notion that Greenspan could have generated a totally different outcome is naive,'' said Robert E. Hall, an economist at the conservative Hoover Institution, a research group at Stanford.
Mr. Greenspan declined requests for an interview. His spokeswoman referred questions about his record to his memoir, ''The Age of Turbulence,'' in which he outlines his beliefs.
''It seems superfluous to constrain trading in some of the newer derivatives and other innovative financial contracts of the past decade,'' Mr. Greenspan writes. ''The worst have failed; investors no longer fund them and are not likely to in the future.''
In his Georgetown speech, he entertained no talk of regulation, describing the financial turmoil as the failure of Wall Street to behave honorably.
''In a market system based on trust, reputation has a significant economic value,'' Mr. Greenspan told the audience. ''I am therefore distressed at how far we have let concerns for reputation slip in recent years.''
As the long-serving chairman of the Fed, the nation's most powerful economic policy maker, Mr. Greenspan preached the transcendent, wealth-creating powers of the market.
A professed libertarian, he counted among his formative influences the novelist Ayn Rand, who portrayed collective power as an evil force set against the enlightened self-interest of individuals. In turn, he showed a resolute faith that those participating in financial markets would act responsibly.
An examination of more than two decades of Mr. Greenspan's record on financial regulation and derivatives in particular reveals the degree to which he tethered the health of the nation's economy to that faith.
As the nascent derivatives market took hold in the early 1990s, and in subsequent years, critics denounced an absence of rules forcing institutions to disclose their positions and set aside funds as a reserve against bad bets.
Time and again, Mr. Greenspan -- a revered figure affectionately nicknamed the Oracle -- proclaimed that risks could be handled by the markets themselves.
''Proposals to bring even minimalist regulation were basically rebuffed by Greenspan and various people in the Treasury,'' recalled Alan S. Blinder, a former Federal Reserve board member and an economist at Princeton University. ''I think of him as consistently cheerleading on derivatives.''
Arthur Levitt Jr., a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, says Mr. Greenspan opposes regulating derivatives because of a fundamental disdain for government.
Mr. Levitt said that Mr. Greenspan's authority and grasp of global finance consistently persuaded less financially sophisticated lawmakers to follow his lead.
''I always felt that the titans of our legislature didn't want to reveal their own inability to understand some of the concepts that Mr. Greenspan was setting forth,'' Mr. Levitt said. ''I don't recall anyone ever saying, 'What do you mean by that, Alan?' ''
Still, over a long stretch of time, some did pose questions. In 1992, Edward J. Markey, a Democrat from Massachusetts who led the House subcommittee on telecommunications and finance, asked what was then the General Accounting Office to study derivatives risks.
Two years later, the office released its report, identifying ''significant gaps and weaknesses'' in the regulatory oversight of derivatives.
''The sudden failure or abrupt withdrawal from trading of any of these large U.S. dealers could cause liquidity problems in the markets and could also pose risks to others, including federally insured banks and the financial system as a whole,'' Charles A. Bowsher, head of the accounting office, said when he testified before Mr. Markey's committee in 1994. ''In some cases intervention has and could result in a financial bailout paid for or guaranteed by taxpayers.''
In his testimony at the time, Mr. Greenspan was reassuring. ''Risks in financial markets, including derivatives markets, are being regulated by private parties,'' he said.
''There is nothing involved in federal regulation per se which makes it superior to market regulation.''
Mr. Greenspan warned that derivatives could amplify crises because they tied together the fortunes of many seemingly independent institutions. ''The very efficiency that is involved here means that if a crisis were to occur, that that crisis is transmitted at a far faster pace and with some greater virulence,'' he said.
But he called that possibility ''extremely remote,'' adding that ''risk is part of life.''
Later that year, Mr. Markey introduced a bill requiring greater derivatives regulation. It never passed.
Resistance to Warnings
In 1997, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a federal agency that regulates options and futures trading, began exploring derivatives regulation. The commission, then led by a lawyer named Brooksley E. Born, invited comments about how best to oversee certain derivatives.
Ms. Born was concerned that unfettered, opaque trading could ''threaten our regulated markets or, indeed, our economy without any federal agency knowing about it,'' she said in Congressional testimony. She called for greater disclosure of trades and reserves to cushion against losses.
Ms. Born's views incited fierce opposition from Mr. Greenspan and Robert E. Rubin, the Treasury secretary then. Treasury lawyers concluded that merely discussing new rules threatened the derivatives market. Mr. Greenspan warned that too many rules would damage Wall Street, prompting traders to take their business overseas.
''Greenspan told Brooksley that she essentially didn't know what she was doing and she'd cause a financial crisis,'' said Michael Greenberger, who was a senior director at the commission. ''Brooksley was this woman who was not playing tennis with these guys and not having lunch with these guys. There was a little bit of the feeling that this woman was not of Wall Street.''
Ms. Born declined to comment. Mr. Rubin, now a senior executive at the banking giant Citigroup, says that he favored regulating derivatives -- particularly increasing potential loss reserves -- but that he saw no way of doing so while he was running the Treasury.
''All of the forces in the system were arrayed against it,'' he said. ''The industry certainly didn't want any increase in these requirements. There was no potential for mobilizing public opinion.''
Mr. Greenberger asserts that the political climate would have been different had Mr. Rubin called for regulation.
In early 1998, Mr. Rubin's deputy, Lawrence H. Summers, called Ms. Born and chastised her for taking steps he said would lead to a financial crisis, according to Mr. Greenberger. Mr. Summers said he could not recall the conversation but agreed with Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Rubin that Ms. Born's proposal was ''highly problematic.''
On April 21, 1998, senior federal financial regulators convened in a wood-paneled conference room at the Treasury to discuss Ms. Born's proposal. Mr. Rubin and Mr. Greenspan implored her to reconsider, according to both Mr. Greenberger and Mr. Levitt.
Ms. Born pushed ahead. On June 5, 1998, Mr. Greenspan, Mr. Rubin and Mr. Levitt called on Congress to prevent Ms. Born from acting until more senior regulators developed their own recommendations. Mr. Levitt says he now regrets that decision. Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Rubin were ''joined at the hip on this,'' he said. ''They were certainly very fiercely opposed to this and persuaded me that this would cause chaos.''
Ms. Born soon gained a potent example. In the fall of 1998, the hedge fund Long Term Capital Management nearly collapsed, dragged down by disastrous bets on, among other things, derivatives. More than a dozen banks pooled $3.6 billion for a private rescue to prevent the fund from slipping into bankruptcy and endangering other firms.
Despite that event, Congress froze the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's regulatory authority for six months. The following year, Ms. Born departed.
In November 1999, senior regulators -- including Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Rubin -- recommended that Congress permanently strip the C.F.T.C. of regulatory authority over derivatives.
Mr. Greenspan, according to lawmakers, then used his prestige to make sure Congress followed through. ''Alan was held in very high regard,'' said Jim Leach, an Iowa Republican who led the House Banking and Financial Services Committee at the time. ''You've got an area of judgment in which members of Congress have nonexistent expertise.''
As the stock market roared forward on the heels of a historic bull market, the dominant view was that the good times largely stemmed from Mr. Greenspan's steady hand at the Fed.
''You will go down as the greatest chairman in the history of the Federal Reserve Bank,'' declared Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican who was chairman of the Senate Banking Committee when Mr. Greenspan appeared there in February 1999.
Mr. Greenspan's credentials and confidence reinforced his reputation -- helping him to persuade Congress to repeal Depression-era laws that separated commercial and investment banking in order to reduce overall risk in the financial system.
''He had a way of speaking that made you think he knew exactly what he was talking about at all times,'' said Senator Tom Harkin, a Democrat from Iowa. ''He was able to say things in a way that made people not want to question him on anything, like he knew it all. He was the Oracle, and who were you to question him?''
In 2000, Mr. Harkin asked what might happen if Congress weakened the C.F.T.C.'s authority.
''If you have this exclusion and something unforeseen happens, who does something about it?'' he asked Mr. Greenspan in a hearing.
Mr. Greenspan said that Wall Street could be trusted. ''There is a very fundamental trade-off of what type of economy you wish to have,'' he said. ''You can have huge amounts of regulation and I will guarantee nothing will go wrong, but nothing will go right either,'' he said.
Later that year, at a Congressional hearing on the merger boom, he argued that Wall Street had tamed risk.
''Aren't you concerned with such a growing concentration of wealth that if one of these huge institutions fails that it will have a horrendous impact on the national and global economy?'' asked Representative Bernard Sanders, an independent from Vermont.
''No, I'm not,'' Mr. Greenspan replied. ''I believe that the general growth in large institutions have occurred in the context of an underlying structure of markets in which many of the larger risks are dramatically -- I should say, fully -- hedged.''
The House overwhelmingly passed the bill that kept derivatives clear of C.F.T.C. oversight. Senator Gramm attached a rider limiting the C.F.T.C.'s authority to an 11,000-page appropriations bill. The Senate passed it. President Clinton signed it into law.
Pressing Forward
Still, savvy investors like Mr. Buffett continued to raise alarms about derivatives, as he did in 2003, in his annual letter to shareholders of his company, Berkshire Hathaway.
''Large amounts of risk, particularly credit risk, have become concentrated in the hands of relatively few derivatives dealers,'' he wrote. ''The troubles of one could quickly infect the others.''
But business continued.
And when Mr. Greenspan began to hear of a housing bubble, he dismissed the threat. Wall Street was using derivatives, he said in a 2004 speech, to share risks with other firms.
Shared risk has since evolved from a source of comfort into a virus. As the housing crisis grew and mortgages went bad, derivatives actually magnified the downturn.
The Wall Street debacle that swallowed firms like Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, and imperiled the insurance giant American International Group, has been driven by the fact that they and their customers were linked to one another by derivatives.
In recent months, as the financial crisis has gathered momentum, Mr. Greenspan's public appearances have become less frequent.
His memoir was released in the middle of 2007, as the disaster was unfolding, and his book tour suddenly became a referendum on his policies. When the paperback version came out this year, Mr. Greenspan wrote an epilogue that offers a rebuttal of sorts.
''Risk management can never achieve perfection,'' he wrote. The villains, he wrote, were the bankers whose self-interest he had once bet upon.
''They gambled that they could keep adding to their risky positions and still sell them out before the deluge,'' he wrote. ''Most were wrong.''
No federal intervention was marshaled to try to stop them, but Mr. Greenspan has no regrets.
''Governments and central banks,'' he wrote, ''could not have altered the course of the boom.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, with Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, left, at a House hearing in 1995.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
A LINGERING GLOBAL INFLUENCE: An interview with Alan Greenspan, nicknamed the Oracle, was shown live outside the Bombay Stock Exchange last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PUNIT PARANJPE/REUTERS)
SOUNDING THE ALARM: Brooksley E. Born starkly warned of risks in not regulating derivatives. Mr. Greenspan, Robert E. Rubin and Lawrence H. Summers, all pictured on Time in 1999, resisted tighter regulation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK KENNEDY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIME INC.)
THROUGH FOUR ADMINISTRATIONS: Mr. Greenspan had the ear of Washington from 1987 to 2006. He was sworn in by President Reagan, far right, and was kept on by new presidents of both parties.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/REUTERS)
MARIO TAMA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY BARRY THUMMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A29) CHART: Federal Reserve
Treasury Department: Some major steps this year by the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department. Chart details timeline.
 Growth of a Complex Market: The market for financial instruments known as derivatives -- contracts intended to hedge against risk whose values are derived from underlying assets -- has increased fivefold since 2002. While Alan M. Greenspan was a champion of them and opposed regulating them, others warned of their risk.(Source: International Swaps and Derivatives Association) Chart details Derivatives outstanding Notional value, or the amount of the underlying asset on which they are based. (pg. A29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); DEREGULATION (87%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); CHRONOLOGIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (95%); RONALD REAGAN (74%); GEORGE SOROS (57%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011



370 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Facing Tougher Battle For Congress

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The economic upheaval is threatening to topple Republican Congressional candidates, putting more Senate and House seats within Democratic reach less than a month before the elections, lawmakers and campaign strategists say.
 Top campaign officials for both parties, pollsters and independent experts say the intense focus on the economic turmoil and last week's bailout vote have combined to rapidly expand a Democratic advantage in Congressional contests. Analysts now predict a Democratic surge on a scale that seemed unlikely just weeks ago, with even some Republicans in traditional strongholds fighting for their political careers, and Democratic leaders dreaming of ironclad majorities.
 In North Carolina, Senator Elizabeth Dole, a former Republican presidential contender and cabinet member, is teetering. In Kentucky, the opponent of the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, has drawn even in some polls, though Republicans say they believe he will win. 
 Democrats say they feel confidently ahead in five Senate races where they hope to pick up Republican seats, and they believe their candidates are running competitively in seven more. 
 In the House, Democrats say they could capture a dozen of the 26 Republican seats left open by retirements, and challengers are closing in on Republican incumbents in Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Michigan, Nevada, New York and elsewhere. 
 ''The last week has severely damaged Republican candidates,'' said Stuart Rothenberg, a nonpartisan analyst who predicts that Democrats could gain as many as six to nine Senate seats and 25 to 30 House seats. ''Everything points to warning signals for Republicans.''
 If such projections by Mr. Rothenberg and others are realized, it would push Senate Democrats tantalizingly close to the filibuster-proof 60-vote majority that has eluded Senate leaders since the late 1970s. While the environment could change again in the remaining weeks, recent polling suggests a fundamental shift, with Republicans absorbing more of the blame for the economic uncertainty. 
 At the same time, the political arms of Congressional Republicans are being outspent -- their House organization recently borrowed $8 million -- and have fewer targets, with only a handful of Democrats in Florida, Louisiana, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wisconsin and in potential trouble.
 Republicans are understandably nervous.
 ''There is no question the economic crisis, the great stimulus debate and the aftermath changed a playing field that had been improving to one that has become considerably more challenging,'' said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee.
 Senator John Ensign of Nevada, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said he was encouraging candidates to ''stay positive'' and ''run like you are 10 points down,'' which in some cases they are. ''You don't have to scare people this election cycle,'' Mr. Ensign said. ''As far as our candidates, they know to take this seriously.''
 Strategists for both parties say Republican House and Senate candidates are being hurt by the dip in support for Senator John McCain at the top of the ticket, frustrating Republicans who had initially viewed Mr. McCain as a strong asset who could appeal to independents and even moderate Democrats and protect Republicans in a tough year.
 But the market volatility and perceived Democratic edge on handling the economy has evidently turned voters to Democrats, a view supported by one top adviser to Republican candidates.
 ''This financial crisis has provided momentum to Barack Obama and other Democrats, and their campaigns now have the wind at their backs,'' said the consultant, who asked not to be identified speaking pessimistically about the Republican outlook. 
 Republicans say they could still limit losses by arguing to voters that Democrats would pursue a tax-heavy agenda if they were to strengthen their grip on Washington and by pointing to Democratic fault in the economic situation.
 ''Seize every opportunity to hold Democrats accountable for their role in creating the economic crisis,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, urged his colleagues in a memorandum distributed Wednesday.
 But the numbers illustrate a stark challenge for Republicans. In the House, 23 seats held by Republicans are generally rated tossups and 4 others are leaning Democratic; just 8 Democratic seats fall into the tossup category and one, now held by Representative Nick Lampson in the Houston area, is rated likely to change parties. In the Senate, one Republican seat -- Virginia -- is considered safely in the Democratic column, and Alaska and New Mexico are considered leaning Democratic. Five states -- Colorado, Minnesota, New Hampshire, North Carolina and Oregon -- are tossups.
 ''We're doing extremely well in places we didn't expect to do well,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said Wednesday.
 In putting their vying messages before the voters, the Democrats' campaign committees have an edge in how much advertising they can afford. The committees tend to focus their spending in the most competitive districts.
 The National Republican Congressional Committee has spent well under $1 million on advertisements in House districts, compared with more than $16 million invested in advertising by the House Democrats' campaign committee. And it can only afford to spend in defense of select Republican seats. On Wednesday, the Capitol Hill newspaper Roll Call first reported that the Republican campaign group was borrowing $8 million to buy more advertising in the closing weeks, and to avoid being heavily outspent. 
 In district after district, House Democrats are running advertisements seeking to link Republicans with President Bush and his economic record. 
 A Democratic commercial against Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, the only Republican House member in New England, shows him shaking hands with Mr. Bush. It includes audio of a September radio interview where Mr. Shays asserted that ''our economy is fundamentally strong.'' A similar statement by Mr. McCain put him on the defensive last month. Polls show Mr. Shays with a lead, but Democrats say their candidate, Jim Himes, is gaining ground.
 Mr. McConnell, the Republican leader whom Democrats would relish knocking off as payback for the 2004 defeat of their leader, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, is being tied to the economic deterioration in new commercials on behalf of his Democratic challenger, Bruce Lunsford, a wealthy businessman.
 In an advertisement that began running on Wednesday in Kentucky, Democrats showed Mr. McConnell's face on an Old West-style wanted poster. ''Some places it'd be considered a crime, but not in Washington,'' an announcer says with a cowboy twang. ''Wall Street and the big banks gave Mitch McConnell $4.4 million for his campaigns, and he fought for less regulation of Wall Street.'' Showing a stampede of wild horses, the announcer continues: ''McConnell opened the gate and Wall Street went wild, and now our entire economy is at risk. Maybe it's time we bring Mitch McConnell back to the corral.''
 Republicans remain confident that Mr. McConnell will prevail.
 The economy is also a main advertising theme in New Hampshire and Oregon, two other states where Democrats are taking aim at Republican incumbents.
 A commercial from Senator Gordon H. Smith's Democratic opponent, Jeff Merkley, the speaker of the Oregon House, says: ''Gordon Smith and George Bush, billions and billions in tax breaks for big oil and corporations that ship jobs overseas. Now a blank check for Wall Street.'' In North Carolina, Kay Hagan, a Democratic state senator, has mounted a surprisingly aggressive challenge that has catapulted her ahead of Mrs. Dole in some recent polls. She has gained ground, in part, by emphasizing how little time Mrs. Dole spent in North Carolina in the early years of her first term. In recent days, the Hagan campaign has focused on blaming both Mrs. Dole and President Bush for the troubled economy.
 Trying to get ahead of voter anger, Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia, uses a commercial to defend his vote for the bailout, which he said was in response to the worst financial crisis of his lifetime. ''I'm as mad as you are about what happened,'' he tells viewers, ''but doing nothing would have been a disaster.''
 The Georgia race, where Jim Martin, a former Democratic state legislator, is seeking to deny Mr. Chambliss a second term, would seem a long shot for Democrats. But they are hoping for a huge increase in turnout among African-Americans excited about the presidential candidacy of Senator Barack Obama to notch a victory.
 In the House, the National Republican Congressional Committee has begun its own television advertising campaign and is emphasizing economics, though with a twist. 
 In a new advertisement against Steve Driehaus, a Democratic state lawmaker challenging Representative Steve Chabot, the Republican incumbent in a Cincinnati district hit by home foreclosures, the narrator faults Mr. Driehaus for missing a legislative vote to limit foreclosures while fund-raising in Washington.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KENTUCKY: Senator Mitch McConnell, right, with his Democratic challenger, Bruce Lunsford. Mr. Lunsford has gained ground in some polls, but Republicans believe they will hold on to the seat.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ED REINKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
NORTH CAROLINA: Senator Elizabeth Dole, campaigning last month with her husband, Bob, is in a tough race for a second term against a Democratic state senator, Kay Hagan, right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK LIDDY/THE NEWS & OBSERVER)(pg. A22) CHARTS: The House: According to an analysis by The New York Times, 23 Republican seats are currently tossups, as opposed to 8 Democratic ones. Four Republican seats are leaning Democratic.
The Senate: Republicans are facing tough competition to hold onto nearly one-third of the party's 23 seats that are up for election this year. Virginia appears to be a certain gain for the Democrats, while New Mexico and Alaska are leaning their way. Five seats currently held by Republicans are tossups.(Sources: TNS Media Intelligence/CMAG
 Cook Political Report) Chart details U.S. (pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH DOLE (88%); MITCH MCCONNELL (73%); TOM COLE (58%); JOHN ENSIGN (58%); KAY HAGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



371 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Obama Wraps His Hopes Inside Economic Anxiety

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
When Senator Barack Obama began speaking about the economy on Wednesday, it sounded, at first, as if ghastly news was coming.
 Mr. Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, told thousands of people at a rally here that America was ''at a moment of great uncertainty.'' He used the words ''significant drop,'' ''anxiety,'' ''crisis'' and ''worse'' all in his second sentence. He explained why the credit markets were frozen, and in plainspoken language described how automobile plants were closing because people could not get car loans, how savings for college and retirement were ''disappearing.''
 ''Back in 1980, Ronald Reagan asked the electorate if you were better off than you were four years ago,'' Mr. Obama told a grandstand full of voters in the swing state of Indiana. ''At the pace things are going, you're going to have to ask if you were better off than you were four weeks ago.'' 
 Then, suddenly, a cardinal rule of politics seemed to kick in: People vote for optimists, not pessimists, even if that means obscuring hard truths in the short term. 
 And so Mr. Obama veered rather sharply into his version of Reaganesque confidence, taking a page from a leader who talked a great deal about sunny days but very little about the budget deficits and debt that flowed from his policies.
 ''I'm here, Indiana, to tell you that there are better days ahead,'' Mr. Obama said after his line about the grim way things were going. ''I know these are tough times, and I know that many of you are anxious about the future. But this isn't a time for fear or for panic. This is a time for resolve and steady leadership.''
 Unlike his opponent, Senator John McCain, the Republican nominee, Mr. Obama does not brand himself as the ''straight talk'' candidate, but he has presented himself as a change agent with new, workable, bipartisan ideas for the economy. His remarks on Wednesday were only the latest, though, to reveal a disconnect between his optimistic promises and the trickier work of enacting an agenda in a polarized capital now gripped by a financial crisis.
 In short, Mr. Obama continues to promise that everything will get better once he is president, but does not explain how his programs and governing philosophy will adjust to new economic realities. He said Wednesday that Americans needed to unite to avoid ''a dark and painful recession,'' even though many economists say that a recession has already begun, and that pain may be inevitable.
 Mr. Obama also turned to placing blame for the economy on President Bush and charging that all Mr. McCain offers are personal attacks and ''more of the same Bush economics that led us into this mess the first place.''
 At the debate on Tuesday night, for instance, the moderator, Tom Brokaw of NBC News, asked Mr. Obama if he was telling voters ''that the American economy is going to get much worse before it gets better and they ought to be prepared for that.''
 ''No,'' Mr. Obama replied, ''I am confident about the American economy.''
 That was one of the answers even his supporters at the debate judged to be indirect, as well as a moment when Mr. Obama opted to keep promising health care reform and regulatory changes in general terms, instead of laying out specific ways that Americans would have to deal with the economy.
 ''I feel like he wants us to rest assured that things will get better with him in office even as every sign suggests that the bad economy is out of anyone's control, even the president's,'' said Lindsey Trella, one of the audience members at the debate who asked a question, and who said afterward that she planned to vote for Mr. Obama.
 ''Now is the time for Obama and McCain to start telling us what they would do to improve the economy, and which plans of theirs they can no longer afford,'' she added.
 Chris Lehane, a Democratic strategist and an adviser to Al Gore in 2000, noted that Mr. Obama was ahead in the race right now, and that he wanted to avoid doing anything that shifted the dynamic in Mr. McCain's favor.
 ''I think both candidates tend to approach these forums more as if they are delivering PowerPoint presentations then pointing to people's hearts and guts,'' Mr. Lehane said after the debate. ''Obama played error-free ball.''
 Mr. Obama has been reluctant to suggest any downsizing in his ambitious legislative agenda. On Wednesday, he argued that better governance of the economy, as well as an end to the $10-billion-a-month war in Iraq and billions of dollars in ''cutting waste,'' would help turn the American financial system around and pay for his new programs.
 After promising to enact universal health care and create millions of jobs in the energy sector and through public-works investments, Mr. Obama finally came to a word that politicians often invoke in recessionary times: ''sacrifice.'' But even here, he said sacrifice would not ''be easy,'' only to avoid saying what the sacrifice would be or how much would be expected of people.
 ''We will all need to sacrifice. We will need to work a little harder,'' he said. ''We will need to work a little smarter; parents will need to turn off their TV sets and make sure their children are doing their homework.''
 Some in the grandstand applauded. Others laughed. It was hard to tell which sentiment Mr. Obama was looking for.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SENATOR BARACK OBAMA: During a rally on Wednesday at the state fairgrounds in Indianapolis.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



372 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Two Words Touch Off a Lot More of Them

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
During Tuesday night's debate, Bill Burton, a spokesman for Senator Barack Obama, sent an e-mail message to political reporters. ''Did John McCain just refer to Obama as 'that one'?'' the message said. 
 Indeed he had. Mr. McCain had been speaking of an energy bill that was ''loaded down with goodies, billions for the oil companies, and it was sponsored by Bush and Cheney.''
 ''And you know who voted for it?'' he asked. ''You might never know. That one,'' he said, smiling and pointing to Mr. Obama, without looking at him. 
 After the debate, Mr. Obama's aides rushed to the spin room and pronounced the phrase ''odd.'' Many people posting comments on the Internet kicked up a storm, as did callers to black talk radio, saying Mr. McCain had dehumanized and disrespected a fellow senator.
 Some offered a benign interpretation, saying Mr. McCain used the term frequently and had simply been clumsy this time. Others, like Warren Ballentine, an African-American host of a syndicated radio program who is a strong Obama supporter, said his chat room ''exploded'' with objections during the debate, and he devoted much of Wednesday's show to the phrase.
 ''It was totally disrespectful,'' Mr. Ballentine said in an interview. ''If you disrespect someone who is your equal, how will you treat me as a citizen?''
 Nicolle Wallace, a spokeswoman for Mr. McCain, said she was astounded that during an economic crisis, the Obama campaign was ''again proving to be the fussiest campaign in American history.''
 Mr. Burton was asked Wednesday on MSNBC to specify his objection to the phrase. He replied that in their first debate Mr. McCain did not look at Mr. Obama and that in Tuesday's, ''he didn't say his name.''
 Some apparent Obama supporters saw a merchandising opportunity, creating a Web site, www.thatone08.com, and a companion Facebook page to sell T-shirts emblazoned with the Obama campaign logo next to a new slogan: ''That One 08.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CHAT ROOMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); HISTORY (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



373 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Hasta la Vista, Baby

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
I did what John McCain has suggested he might not be prepared to do. I sat down with the Spanish prime minister, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, and talked to him for an hour.
 I'm pleased to report that I and several New York Times colleagues survived. National security between the United States and our NATO ally was not, to my knowledge, compromised.
 Zapatero's a wry, polished, suave politician -- a socialist with that European socialist habit of being amused by almost everything and committed to almost nothing. It's fair to say that his view of the United States is cool, colored by a relationship with President Bush that started badly and never got better. 
 One of the first things Zapatero, 48, did upon his election in 2004 was announce the withdrawal of Spanish troops from Iraq. His conversation with Bush about this decision was, he said, ''unforgettable.''
 When he told Bush that Spanish forces in Iraq were history, the president replied: ''I'm very disappointed in you.''
 Zapatero deadpanned: ''I understood this really well because he had no reason to be enthusiastic about me.''
 I told you the Spanish leader was a wry guy.
 Undeterred, Zapatero tried to explain that he was the leader of a democratic country, and his campaign promise had been getting the troops out. Bush, as the leader of another democratic country, should understand this.
 ''But Bush was very cold. He said, 'O.K., all right, goodbye.' ''
 Hasta la vista, baby.
 That was about it for Spanish-American relations in the last half-decade. Yep, you're with us or against us.
 Zapatero said that, nonetheless, he had a ''certain consideration'' for Bush, because ''I recognize that my electoral success has been influenced by his governing style.'' In other words, Bush was so unpopular in Spain that he helped Zapatero win in 2004 and 2008.
 Wry.
 I relate all this because the unhappy saga of U.S.-Spanish relations reflects bungled American foreign policy. It's one thing to have a disagreement between friends, another to have discord fester through spite. Bush's vengeful streak is worthy of the schoolyard.
 The United States is weakened when it's feuding with its allies. The so-called coalition in Iraq has emptied that word of meaning.
 Barack Obama gets this. A weakened United States, militarily stretched and economically snared, cannot be cavalier about its alliances. McCain, to judge by his refusal to say he would meet Zapatero, is still in muscle-flexing mode. That's the last thing we need.
 My second reason for relating this is that Zapatero is the kind of guy who reminds me of the need for smart American leadership. In fact, he reminds me of why, raised in Europe, I chose to become an American.
 Despite Spain's dictatorial past under Franco, Zapatero seemed to me mealy-mouthed about totalitarianism and tyranny. Moral relativism oozed from his lawyerly repartee. He illustrates why Orwell felt compelled to say: it's not enough to be antifascist; you must also be in principle anti-totalitarian. The European left has often had a hard time with this notion.
 Asked about Russia and Georgia, Zapatero came back with rhetorical questions. ''What was the purpose of the creation of NATO?'' he asked. ''To defend ourselves against Russia or Communism? The expansion of NATO, and NATO today, what is it defending?'' As for the Georgians, Zapatero mused, ''were they enslaved by Russia or Communism?''
 Who cares?
 The Georgians were enslaved by a Soviet totalitarian system. So were the Poles, Czechs, Ukrainians, Estonians and countless others. That nightmare is vivid for them, as is America's fight for their freedom. They do not want to risk falling back. They want the ''normality'' they feel NATO -- and the European Union -- guarantees them. It's a psychological thing. Spain should get that.
 But Zapatero's more concerned about ''certain gestures that may provoke Russian nationalism.'' He seems to buy into Vladimir Putin's nonsense about the ''encirclement'' of Russia, which spans from Eastern Europe to Northern Asia, by the likes of Lilliputian Georgia, if it were allowed into NATO.
 ''To think that Georgia will be more secure if it's in NATO, that won't be the case,'' he said. ''All we'll achieve is a greater divide between Moscow and the rest of the world.''
 Wrong. NATO locks in liberal democracy. It brings stability and prosperity, not threats, to Russia's environs.
 Zapatero is also wrong about the United States. He said it was a ''diverse, creative, dynamic'' country, but ''it does not need to have a mission.''
 But America was born as an idea and cannot be itself unless it carries that idea forward. That's the tragedy of the Bush years: the undermining of American ideals. The United States is inseparable from the hope given Emma Lazarus's ''huddled masses yearning to be free;'' it is bound to the struggle to ensure that, as Lincoln put it, ''government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.''
 Obama, if he wins, should get Zapatero to the White House pronto. These are ideas worth discussing between friends. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



374 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: After the Showdown in Nashville

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Economic Woes Set Tone for Rivals in 2nd Debate'' (front page, Oct. 8) and ''Mud Pies for 'That One,' '' by Maureen Dowd (column, Oct. 8):
 This is what I saw on Tuesday night: one candidate showing class and poise and knowledge of the issues, and one showing disdain and contempt for the candidate showing class and poise. 
 I feel sad. I really do. I used to like and admire John McCain. Alex Vine
 Tallahassee, Fla., Oct. 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The arrogant behavior of Senator John McCain in the second debate culminated in his referring to Senator Barack Obama as ''that one'' and clearly betrays a desperate and dangerous person willing to go outside the bounds of proper comportment to achieve a goal.
 In so doing, the senator from Arizona, besides losing another debate or an election, is losing his own dignity.
 Fabio Angeli
 Stony Brook, N.Y., Oct. 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 During the last debate and as he has done before, John McCain dangled a carrot before the voters by emphatically declaring that if elected, he will ''get'' Osama bin Laden. He assured us that he knows how to do it. Implied is that he alone has secret intelligence and/or an advanced military strategy to rid the world of the bin Laden menace.
 In the interest of winning the war on terror and possibly saving lives, let us hope that Senator McCain will put country first and share his secret now with Gen. David H. Petraeus rather than hold it back as a condition of his election. W. M. Goldberger
 Columbus, Ohio, Oct. 8, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 I am horrified and deeply saddened to read in your Oct. 8 editorial ''Politics of Attack'' the description of a Sarah Palin rally in which, after the candidate's gross distortions about Barack Obama, someone in the crowd yelled ''kill him!'' and others heckled an African-American member of a TV crew with racial slurs. 
 Ms. Palin seems oblivious to the consequences of hate-mongering in this country that in the past have led to some of the most tragic and shameful events in our country's history. This, to quote Ms. Palin's phrase, ''goes beyond naivete and poor judgment.'' 
 She and the McCain campaign need to think seriously about the path they are traveling and the forces they may unleash. Katharine K. Treadway
 Boston, Oct. 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Is there some reason we can't give Barack Obama another four to eight years before we elect him president? He's not going somewhere, is he? 
 It's nothing personal or political, but I think that reasonable people would like to see a longer record and develop some history with Mr. Obama before we trust him with the enormous power of the president. Martin R. Wellens
 Shorewood, Minn., Oct. 8, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''Palin's Kind of Patriotism'' (column, Oct. 8):
 Agree with John McCain or not, says Thomas L. Friedman, ''he is of presidential timber.'' But putting a total novice like Gov. Sarah Palin in a position that could lead to her assuming the role of president of the United States, Mr. Friedman adds, ''is flat out reckless.'' 
 Putting Ms. Palin in that position was Mr. McCain's choice. In making that choice, Mr. McCain has shown that at the age of 72 and after 26 years in Congress, he is not ready to be president.
 William Kenney 
 Whitestone, Queens, Oct. 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 It's hypocritical that those who give so much lip service to the military are also so stridently averse to paying higher taxes during time of war. 
 I'm ashamed that our troops hear us whining about paying higher taxes for a war they are actually waging. Taxes are a great place to start when asked to sacrifice for a patriotic cause.
 The government protects my freedoms 24/7. In addition, I, and every business I use, rely on what the government has provided: roads, the Internet, police, firefighters, regulatory agencies, court systems, protection of the air, water and land, and lots more. 
 Paying taxes is an honor and a small price to pay for all the privileges of being an American. Paying taxes is patriotic. Doing everything in your power to avoid paying taxes is much closer to treason. 
 So, Sarah Palin, I don't care if you can field dress a moose. Proudly pay your taxes and be grateful the rest of us don't agree with you. David Reinisch 
 Chicago, Oct. 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Our definition of patriotism seems to have significantly degraded since 1776, when our founders said, ''We mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes and our sacred honor.'' 
 Now Gov. Sarah Palin tells us: ''You said recently that higher taxes or asking for higher taxes or paying higher taxes is patriotic. In the middle class of America, which is where Todd and I have been all of our lives, that's not patriotic.''
 Enough said! Martin E. Cobern 
 Cheshire, Conn., Oct. 8, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL ROGERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); AL-QAEDA (70%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); HISTORY (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); SARAH PALIN (74%); DAVID PETRAEUS (53%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (68%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008



375 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Firm Offers $540 Million Toward Deal In Chemicals

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Apollo Management, the private equity giant, offered to pay $540 million on Thursday to help close the $6.5 billion merger between its subsidiary, Hexion Specialty Chemicals, and a rival chemical maker, the Huntsman Corporation. 
 The offer was an effort to prod banks that have committed to financing the deal to live up to their lending agreements, a difficult task given the unsettled credit markets.
 Shares in Huntsman surged 28 percent to $11.64 on Thursday, as investors hoped that an end was in sight for one of the most bruising battles over a private equity deal in recent years. 
 Negotiations for the deal, which was struck in July 2007, have been bogged down by a fight in Delaware courts, where a judge prevented Hexion from backing out and ordered it to make its ''reasonable best efforts'' to complete the merger. 
 Devised at the height of the credit boom, the Huntsman-Hexion merger was to be financed mostly with debt, including a loan package of more than $15 billion, to be provided by Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank. 
 But banks have grown more recalcitrant about committing to lending agreements since then, as they have been largely unable to resell the loans and bonds used to finance leveraged buyouts without incurring a loss. Court fights erupted this year over the issue, ensnaring deals like the takeovers of Bell Canada and Clear Channel Communications. Both of those legal battles ended in settlements.
 Hexion and Apollo filed a lawsuit in the Delaware Court of Chancery in June, arguing that Huntsman's financial health had deteriorated drastically amid rising commodities prices and a declining economy. If the deal were to go through, Hexion and Apollo argued, the combined company would be insolvent.
 But Vice Chancellor Stephen P. Lamb of the Delaware court ruled that Hexion had ''knowingly and intentionally'' violated its agreements with Huntsman, and ordered the company to find a way to finance the deal. Huntsman has since sued Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank in a Texas state court, seeking to prevent them from interfering with the merger.
 With its $540 million equity contribution, Apollo is probably seeking to reassure banks that the combined company would remain solvent. 
 ''We are grateful for Apollo's support as we continue to work towards closing the Huntsman transaction,'' Craig O. Morrison, Hexion's chief executive, said in a statement.
 In addition to the $540 million, Apollo has agreed to waive a transaction fee of about $100 million. In a statement, Hexion said that Apollo's capital infusion was ''not required by any current contractual obligation.''
 A Huntsman spokesman said the company was pleased by Apollo's offer. ''We said all along and continue to believe that the combined entity will be solvent,'' the spokesman, Russ Stolle, said. ''We are working and cooperating with Hexion on actions to be taken under the merger agreement prior to closing.''
 Spokesmen for Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank declined to comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); MERGERS (91%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (90%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (89%); LITIGATION (88%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%)

COMPANY: MOMENTIVE SPECIALITY CHEMICALS INC (94%); HUNTSMAN CORP (94%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (85%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (59%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (54%)

TICKER: HUN (NYSE) (94%); APO (NYSE) (59%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325910 PRINTING INK MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (94%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: CRAIG O MORRISON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



376 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: An Economy You Can Bank On

BYLINE: By CASEY B. MULLIGAN. 
Casey B. Mulligan is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago.

DATELINE: Chicago 

 BODY:
 THE Treasury Department is now thinking about using some of the $700 billion it has been given to rescue Wall Street to buy ownership stakes in American banks. The idea is that banking is so central to the American economy that the government is justified in virtually nationalizing much of the industry in order to save us from a potential depression. 
 There are two faulty assumptions here. First, saving America's banks won't save the economy. And second, the economy doesn't really need saving. It's stronger than we think. 
 Bear with me. I know that most everyone has been saying for a couple of weeks that something has to be done; a banking crisis could quickly become a wider crisis, pulling the rest of us down. For this reason, the Wall Street bailout is supposed to be better than no plan at all. 
 Too bad this line of thinking is seriously flawed. The non-financial sectors of our economy will not suffer much from even a prolonged banking crisis, because the general economic importance of banks has been highly exaggerated.
 Although banks perform an essential economic function -- bringing together investors and savers -- they are not the only institutions that can do this. Pension funds, university endowments, venture capitalists and corporations all bring money to new investment projects without banks playing any essential role. The average corporation gets about a quarter of its investment funds from the profits it has after paying dividends -- and could double or even triple that amount by cutting its dividend, if necessary.
 What's more, it's not as if banking services are about to vanish. When a bank or a group of banks go under, the economywide demand for their services creates a strong profit motive for new banks to enter the marketplace and for existing banks to expand their operations. (Bank of America and J. P. Morgan Chase are already doing this.)
 It's important to keep in mind, too, that the financial sector has had a long history of fluctuating without any correlated fluctuations in the rest of the economy. The stock market crashed in 1987 -- in 1929 proportions -- but there was no decade-long Depression that followed. Economic research has repeatedly demonstrated that financial-sector gyrations like these are hardly connected to non-financial sector performance. Studies have shown that economic growth cannot be forecast by the expected rates of return on government bonds, stocks or savings deposits.
 It turns out that John McCain, who was widely mocked for saying that ''the fundamentals of our economy are strong,'' was actually right. We're in a financial crisis, not an economic crisis. We're not entering a second Great Depression. 
 How do we know? Well, the economy outside the financial sector is healthier than it seems. 
 One important indicator is the profitability of non-financial capital, what economists call the marginal product of capital. It's a measure of how much profit that each dollar of capital invested in the economy is producing during, say, a year. Some investments earn more than others, of course, but the marginal product of capital is a composite of all of them -- a macroeconomic version of the price-to-earnings ratio followed in the financial markets.
 When the profit per dollar of capital invested in the economy is higher than average, future rates of economic growth also tend to be above average. The same cannot be said about rates of return on the S.& P. 500, or any another measurement that commands attention on Wall Street.
 Since World War II, the marginal product of capital, after taxes, has averaged 7 percent to 8 percent per year. (In other words, each dollar of capital invested in the economy earns, on average, 7 cents to 8 cents annually.) And what happened during 2007 and the first half of 2008, when the financial markets were already spooked by oil price spikes and housing price crashes? The marginal product was more than 10 percent per year, far above the historical average. The third-quarter earnings reports from some companies already suggest that America's non-financial companies are still making plenty of money.
 The marginal product has accurately reflected hard economic times in the past. From 1930 to 1933, for instance, the marginal product of capital averaged 0.5 percentage points per year less than the postwar average. The profit per dollar of capital was also below average in the year before the 1982 recession and the year before the 2001 recession. Sure, the financial industry has taken a hit, and so have cities like New York that depend on that industry. But the financial system is more resilient today than it has been in the past, because it's a much easier industry for companies to enter than it was in the 1930s. 
 When banks failed during the Great Depression, there were not so many foreign investors that were cash-rich (or these days, oil-rich) and appreciative of how some of the bank assets, personnel and brand names in the United States could be used to earn profits in the future. And don't worry about foreign ownership: Americans would benefit if foreigners brought money into our economy to enable banks to continue to lend. 
 And if it takes a while for banks and lenders to get up and running again, what's the big deal? Saving and investment are themselves not essential to the economy in the short term. Businesses could postpone their investments for a few quarters with a fairly small effect on Americans' living standards. How harmful would it be to wait nine more months for a new car or an addition to your house? 
 We can largely make up for this delay by extra investment when the banking sector reorganizes itself. Americans waited years during World War II to begin private-sector investment projects (when wartime production displaced private investment), and quickly brought the capital stock (housing and big-ticket consumer items) back to normal levels when the war ended. 
 So, if you are not employed by the financial industry (94 percent of you are not), don't worry. The current unemployment rate of 6.1 percent is not alarming, and we should reconsider whether it is worth it to spend $700 billion to bring it down to 5.9 percent. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELLY BLAIR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); DIVIDENDS (86%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ENDOWMENTS (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (66%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



377 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1862 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
NORTH KOREA BARS INSPECTORS
From Nuclear Complex
North Korea heightened pressure on the Bush administration by barring international inspectors from all parts of its Yongbyon nuclear complex, even as administration officials said they believed that they were close to a deal to end a stalemate with the North over its nuclear program. PAGE A14
IRAQI LAWMAKER KILLED IN BOMBING
A member of the Iraqi Parliament from the political movement of the anti-American Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr was killed in a roadside bombing in Baghdad. The attack prompted supporters of Mr. Sadr to hold the United States responsible. The American ambassador to Iraq and the commander of the United States troops there condemned the attack as a ''heinous crime.'' PAGE A12 
CRISIS RECALLS '90S FOR JAPAN
America's financial crisis has given Japan a sense of deja vu and brought various comparisons by Japan's press and policy makers to their own country's banking crisis in the 1990s, and its costly government bailouts. The prediction in Japan is that the United States faces an arduous journey to financial recovery. ''There is a lot more pain and turmoil coming,'' said an official with the industry watchdog that oversaw Japan's banking cleanup. PAGE A13
CHINA BANS DRUG AFTER DEATHS
The Chinese government, already grappling with the scandal over tainted milk, banned the sale and use of one brand of an herbal medicine after three people injected with it died and three others fell seriously ill. The State Food and Drug Administration identified the problem drug as a preparation of Siberian ginseng made by Wandashan Pharmaceutical. It was not immediately clear whether Wandashan marketed its products outside China. PAGE A14
HEROIC RESCUE? MAYBE NOT
The Egyptian government says that the 11 European tourists and their 8 Egyptian guides and drivers held captive by bandits for 10 days last month were freed as the result of an ''operation,'' and the state-controlled media in Egypt reported the release as the result of a heroic commando raid. But a former prisoner tells a different story, and an opposition member of Parliament has demanded an investigation. PAGE A8
WARY RETURN FOR GEORGIAN REFUGEES
Emotions were mixed all over Georgia, as families streamed back to their homes from refugee camps. Though government officials urged refugees to wait until their villages have been cleared of unexploded ordnance left after a brief war with Russia, it was impossible to stop them. page A6
national
INDIAN TRIBES SEE PROFIT
In Wind for Power
Wind is to South Dakota what forests are to Maine or beaches are to Florida: a natural and valuable inheritance. Native American tribes like the Rosebud Sioux now seek to claim that inheritance by building turbine farms to harness some of the country's strongest and most reliable winds, which can lead to a new economic underpinning for the 29,000 tribal members. PAGE A15
BUSH TRANSITION PLANS
President Bush took steps to deal with the aftermath of Election Day, issuing an executive order intended to govern a smooth transition to the next administration. The order creates a council to coordinate the handoff of the presidency to either John McCain or Barack Obama and speed up the nominations of hundreds of officials joining the next administration. PAGE A20
INQUIRY ON EAVESDROPPING
The chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, said the committee would investigate claims by two military eavesdroppers that they routinely listened in on private calls home from American military officers, aid workers and journalists stationed in Iraq. ''Any time there is an allegation regarding abuse of the privacy and civil liberties of Americans it is a very serious matter,'' he said. PAGE A16
MARS ROVER'S NEXT MISSION
NASA's next big mission is ambitious, perhaps too ambitious. The goal is to send a robotic rover the size of a small S.U.V. to Mars. The rover, called the Mars Science Laboratory, would be powered by a nuclear battery and able to roam far and wide, gathering information with a suite of powerful instruments, including a laser to vaporize rocks. But $100 million may stand in the way of its launching next year with NASA's overall tight budget. PAGE A17
obituaries
GEORGE E. PALADE, 95
His discoveries about the intricate inner workings of cells helped give birth to the field of modern cell biology and earned him a Nobel Prize. Dr. Palade pioneered in using electron microscopy, and his findings later proved useful in understanding diseases and in the protein production that is the basis of the biotechnology industry. PAGE A27
KIM CHAN
An actor who became a familiar face in a variety of Asian roles, notably as Jerry Lewis's butler in the Martin Scorsese film ''The King of Comedy,'' a character who did furious battle with an obsessed fan played by Robert De Niro. His niece Judy Gee, who confirmed his death, said that he was probably 93 or 94. PAGE A27
SPORTS
DROPPING A LACROSSE STICK
To Carry a Pigskin
In high school, Evan Royster was among the most coveted lacrosse prospects in the country. He shined at summer camps, scored 33 goals his senior year and was named a high school All-American. But for college, he chose football, a decision that has worked out rather well. As the starting tailback for Penn State, he has used his shiftiness and vision to help drive a breakneck offense. PAGE B15
A SPOTLIGHT ON LIGHT-HEAVYWEIGHTS
Chad Dawson, right, is one of the world's best light-heavyweight boxers, a young star with a spotless professional record and career earnings approaching millions of dollars. His bout Saturday night against Antonio Tarver, left, a 39-year-old three-time light-heavyweight champion, is one of the most highly anticipated match-ups in recent years. The attention is the kind usually reserved for heavier -- or lighter -- boxers. PAGE B14
AN AGENT'S CONSTELLATION
A lot of baseball people -- including people who make a living writing or talking about it -- were infuriated last year when word got out during Game 4 of the World Series that Alex Rodriguez had decided to opt out of his contract with the Yankees. They blamed Scott Boras, his agent, for the leak, and accused Boras of showing a lack of respect for the game by stealing attention from its signature event. If Boras has suffered any from the opprobrium, it isn't obvious from this year's playoffs. PAGE B11
NEW YORK
YOUNG AND GREEN,
And Applying the Heat
Steeped in environmentalism at school, in houses of worship, through scouting and even via popular culture, a growing army of ''eco-kids'' are trying to hold their parents accountable at home. They pore over garbage bins in search of errant recyclables. They turn off the lights in empty rooms. They lobby for solar panels. Money, for them, is no object. And their parents can end up feeling the pressure. PAGE A25
WORKER DIES IN MANHOLE EXPLOSION
An explosion in a manhole where Consolidated Edison workers had been splicing cables left one worker dead and another one injured in Brooklyn. George Dillman, 26, died after an explosion rocked the manhole, filled with 120-volt power lines, at the intersection of Euclid and Sutter Avenues in East New York. The cause of the explosion was under investigation. Con Edison officials said it was the first time in more than four years that one of its electrical workers had died on the job. PAGE A26
BUSINESS
CAPITALISM-HAPPY ESTONIA
Faces First Serious Downturn
Estonia, which for its two post-Communist decades has embraced capitalism with gusto, is slogging through its first serious economic downturn since liberation from the Soviet grip in the early 1990s. Political and business leaders say the challenge will include a transition from an economy based on breathless consumption to one based on the harder work of selling goods and services to the world. PAGE B6
ICELAND MAY TURN TO I.M.F.
Iceland's financial system collapsed, and analysts said it was probably only a matter of time before the country would have to turn to the International Monetary Fund for help, a move that Iceland has tried desperately to avoid. PAGE B6
TRYING TO CLOSE A MERGER
Apollo Management offered to pay $540 million to help close the $6.5 billion merger between its subsidiary, Hexion Specialty Chemicals, and a rival chemical maker, the Huntsman Corporation. The offer was an effort to prod banks that have committed to financing the deal to live up to their lending agreements, not easy in the current credit markets. PAGE B4
PRIUS MAY GET OWN BRAND
Toyota is considering creating a separate brand for its Prius hybrid car, and may add both larger and smaller Prius models to its lineup. James E. Lentz III, president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., said that if approved, the Prius brand would be similar to Scion, Toyota's brand of lower-priced cars aimed at younger buyers. PAGE B7
ESCAPES
HOME AGAIN, HOME AGAIN,
The Vacation Jig
Some people can't wait to get out of their hometowns; others never even think about leaving. And then there is a third group who live elsewhere, but own a vacation property in their hometowns or environs. PAGE D1
WINTERING WITH HORSES
The reputation of Aiken, S.C., as a haven for horse lovers got its start in the late 1800s when wealthy Northerners, including the Whitneys, Vanderbilts and Astors, discovered Aiken's agreeable climate and found that its loamy clay soil was perfect footing for their horses' hooves. Now the area is experiencing the rebirth of its ''winter colony'' days. PAGE D3
ACCENTUATING THE VIEW
In a vacation home, sitting and staring out the window can be considered a productive use of time, especially when the view is something to behold. Choosing the right type of window can make the view even better. PAGE D2
Editorial
BUILDING A BETTER BAILOUT
It's still unclear how and to what extent the Treasury Department will inject capital and assume ownership in United States banks. But it is clear that the new approach would be more than a tactical shift. page A32
FISCAL DISASTER IN CALIFORNIA
The last thing California residents need at this point are new policies that land even more people behind bars and that drive up prison spending still further. page A32
CITIZEN TERRORISTS DELETED
The homeland security mania has invited some startling abuses of police power, but we have yet to hear of any more knuckle-headed than one in Maryland. page A32
op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
Policy players have reached a moment of truth: They'd better do something soon. In fact, they'd better announce a coordinated financial rescue plan this weekend -- or the world economy may well experience its worst slump since the Great Depression. page A33
DAVID BROOKS
What had been a disdain for liberal intellectuals slipped into a disdain for the educated class as a whole. The liberals had coastal condescension, so the conservatives developed their own anti-elitism, with mirror-image categories and mirror-image resentments, but with the same corrosive effect. page A33
AN ECONOMY TO BANK ON
The Treasury Department may try to rescue the economy by buying ownership stakes in many American banks. But saving America's banks won't save the economy, Casey B. Mulligan, an economist, writes in an Op-Ed article. page A33

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); REFUGEES (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); BANK FAILURES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (71%); HERBAL MEDICINE (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (69%); SCANDALS (64%); UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE (60%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (60%); NATIVE AMERICANS (56%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (77%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); EGYPT (93%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



378 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CHEAP SEATS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Bad Times, Good Prices

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
CULTURE can be expensive, no matter which way the Dow is pointing. But in belt-tightening times, the cost of enjoying the arts in New York might seem particularly daunting.
 Take Broadway, for example. The average price paid for a ticket last week was $76, according to the Broadway League, which represents theater owners and producers. For many shows that will barely get you a spot in the rear mezzanine -- or, in the case of the ''Equus'' revival at the Broadhurst Theater, one of the 52 seats onstage.
 Or do you prefer rock 'n' roll? Prices for pop concerts are higher than ever. The national average for entry to this year's major tours is slightly more than $67, the trade magazine Pollstar has reported, and -- surprise -- New York is the most expensive market in the country. The top price for Neil Young's shows at Madison Square Garden in December is more than $250, which is also what a prime seat at the Metropolitan Opera will cost you. 
 Fortunately for anyone who wants to maintain a busy cultural calendar but hears the call of frugality -- and for those of us who pinch pennies regardless -- New York is also the home of the bargain ticket, with an array of discounts, promotions and freebies for everything from poetry readings downtown to the glamour of opera at Lincoln Center. 
 Kate D. Levin, the city's cultural affairs commissioner, says markdowns are part of basic arts economics.
 ''Revenue from ticket sales will always be important,'' Ms. Levin said, ''but remaining affordable to serve loyal patrons is likely to be a priority for most organizations during times of economic uncertainty.''
 Here are some suggestions for how to get the most for your cultural dollar.
 The Great White Bargain
 Perhaps nothing symbolizes the entertainment draw of New York better than Broadway, and the theater world has the most extensive discount system. 
 The classic Broadway buck-saver is the TKTS booth, operated by the nonprofit Theater Development Fund (tdf.org). With tickets at 25 to 50 percent off, and sometimes more, it has locations in Times Square, South Street Seaport and, since July, downtown Brooklyn. On Thursday its gleaming new Times Square facility will open with a bonus: credit cards will finally be accepted. 
 Broadway and Off Broadway producers also advertise through Season of Savings, a booklet of coupons for up to 55 percent off, distributed in newspapers and available on the Web (seasonofsavings.com). It was created in response to the drop in theater attendance after 9/11, said Nancy Coyne of the Broadway advertising agency Serino Coyne, which runs the program. 
 ''We were nervous that New Yorkers needed more than just Giuliani telling them to go to the theater,'' Ms. Coyne said, referring to reassurances at the time by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
 In addition, most Broadway shows have rush or standing-room tickets sold before the performance; a handful, including ''Avenue Q,'' ''Wicked'' and ''Hairspray,'' have daily lotteries for front-row seats under $30. Onstage seating is available at ''Spring Awakening'' ($40) and ''Equus'' ($76.50 for most shows; details at equusonbroadway.com). 
 Among Off Broadway's many deals, the New York Theater Workshop (nytw.org) is selling all Sunday tickets for $20, and the Keen Company (keencompany.org) is offering 15 seats to Jan de Hartog's ''Fourposter'' on Tuesdays for $15. A cluster of Web sites, including broadwaybox.com and nytheatre.com, have sizable deals for Broadway, Off Broadway and beyond.
 One major new bargain in town is Free Night of Theater, a nationwide event organized by the Theater Communications Group. Begun three years ago in Philadelphia, San Francisco and Austin, Tex., it has now expanded to 120 cities, including New York for the first time. 
 In New York 115 theaters are giving away about 6,000 tickets for performances from Thursday to the end of October. ''Fuerzabruta'' at the Daryl Roth Theater, ''Streamers'' and ''The Language of Trees'' at the Roundabout Theater Company, and ''Woyzeck'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music are all on the list. Free Night's Web site (freenightnyc.net) began accepting reservations last week; most spots have been claimed, but theaters may add more, said Phillip Matthews, the director of audience programs for Theater Communications Group.
 Students of Savings
 There is a kind of benevolent class system to the discount game, favoring students and retirees -- at least those with time to spare. 
 The New York Philharmonic (nyphil.org) sells $12 tickets to students and has deals for people 65 and older. At Carnegie Hall (carnegiehall.org), students are eligible for subscriptions at $15 per concert and both students and those 65 and older can get into some concerts for $10; student entry to the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center (chambermusicsociety.org) is $10 at the box office the day of the show, or half-price in advance.
 The catch is that it is almost a job in itself to keep track of all the rules and schedules. Those student tickets at the Philharmonic go on sale 10 days before the performance, and tickets for age 65 and over the day of the concert, if the show is not sold out; Carnegie's discounts go on sale weekly. 
 Students and those 65 and older, get to the Brooklyn Academy of Music (bam.org) 90 minutes before show time for $10 entry. But you'll need to act fast to get the special $20 orchestra seats at the Metropolitan Opera (metopera.org), offered for most performances Mondays through Thursdays. They go on sale two hours before showtime, and the line forms early for the most popular shows.
 Dance Theater Workshop (dtw.org) gives 40 percent off to students and those 65 and older, as well as performing artists, who should be prepared to show some proof of creative employment (a review, for example). 
 The rules are even more byzantine on Broadway. 
 For ''Spring Awakening,'' for example, student rush tickets go on sale each day when the box office opens, but for ''The 39 Steps,'' be there two hours before the curtain; ''Mamma Mia!'' has rush tickets, but only on Wednesdays and Thursdays. Rush tickets for ''Chicago'' are available for each performance except Saturday night, and you need not be a student, but for ''Speed-the-Plow'' they go on sale two hours before showtime -- and have that student ID ready.
 Got all that?
 For a Song
 Discounts are nice, but you can't beat free. Besides Free Night of Theater, there's a wealth of world-class arts events in New York offered gratis. 
 On Friday the World Financial Center (worldfinancialcenter.com) presents a piano marathon honoring Thelonious Monk, with Geri Allen, Randy Weston and Chucho Valdes. Later this season are the composer Bobby Previte (Oct. 28), the Limon Dance Company (Nov. 4) and 20th-century choral music with Musica Sacra (Nov. 18) -- all free.
 The Lower Manhattan Cultural Council's new ''Poems & Pints'' series (lmcc.net) presents major American poets at Fraunces Tavern, one of the oldest buildings in Manhattan. Paul Muldoon and Mark Strand read on Nov. 4. 
 Joe's Pub (joespub.com) is celebrating its 10th anniversary this weekend with 10 free shows, including Jill Sobule, Allen Toussaint and Roy Nathanson. For classical fans, St. Thomas Church (saintthomaschurch.org) is in the midst of a six-concert run of Messiaen's organ works on Saturday afternoons, and on Monday the Daedalus Quartet begins a lunchtime Haydn series at Philosophy Hall at Columbia University (millertheater.com). The Juilliard School (juilliard.edu) has a cornucopia of free concerts. 
 Lovers of the visual arts are particularly fortunate. Galleries are free to browse, and for the Metropolitan (metmuseum.org) and the Brooklyn Museum (brooklynmuseum.org), among others, an entry fee is suggested but not required. Many other museums offer discounted hours: On Friday nights, for example, Asia Society (asiasociety.org) is free, the Guggenheim (guggenheim.org) is half-price, and you can pay what you wish at the Whitney (whitney.org).
 The Art of the Deal
 It may be too soon for many arts institutions to gauge how the recent economic tumult will affect attendance and sales, and to decide how to react. Some are starting with community outreach: in response to the bad news on Wall Street, the 92nd Street Y has added career counseling to the programming of its new downtown branch, 92YTribeca, which opens next weekend.
 But for the city's most dedicated cultural bargain hunters, a good deal is a good deal no matter what is happening in the economy.
 Outside the Metropolitan Opera one afternoon this week, 100 or so patrons were lined up for $20 orchestra seats to see Strauss's ''Salome'' -- seats that normally cost up to $175. (Starting Monday the Met will offer prime tickets to John Adams's ''Doctor Atomic'' for $20 and $30 thanks to a $500,000 donation by Agnes Varis and her husband, Karl Leichtman, who financed the original $20 program, which is now three years old.) 
 They had brought books and magazines to read while waiting for the tickets to go on sale at 6. Linda Larys, 70, said she went to the opera about five times a season and got the discount whenever possible. 
 ''These are cheap tickets,'' she said. ''That's why we're here.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about entertainment bargains in New York referred incorrectly to a ticket discount at the New York Theater Workshop. Tickets are $20 for Sunday evening performances, but not for Sunday matinees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Waiting for $20 tickets to ''Salome'' at the Metropolitan Opera.
The Met, ''Salome'' and $20 same-day tickets.
 On Broadway, ''Spring Awakening'' offers some discounts for onstage seats and for students.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); TICKET SALES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); POP & ROCK (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); THEATER (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); OPERA (67%); CITY LIFE (67%); POETRY (50%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



379 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Joint Chiefs Chairman Is Pessimistic on Afghanistan

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT; Helene Cooper contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With security and economic conditions in Afghanistan already in dire straits, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff said Thursday that the situation there would probably only worsen next year. 
 ''The trends across the board are not going in the right direction,'' the chairman, Adm. Mike Mullen, told reporters. ''I would anticipate next year would be a tougher year.'' 
 Admiral Mullen said Afghanistan was likely to continue what a nearly completed intelligence assessment called ''a downward spiral'' unless there were rapid, major improvements. Those improvements include curbing Afghanistan's booming heroin trade, bolstering district and tribal leaders to offset a weak central government in Kabul, breathing life into a flagging economy and stemming the flow of militants who are carrying out increasingly sophisticated attacks from havens in Pakistan. 
 Admiral Mullen struck a pessimistic note when asked whether it was likely such reversals would take place. 
 ''Both the trends and the status specifically of where we are on those other things right now would indicate that the trends are going to continue,'' he said. 
 The sobering forecast comes as a draft report by American intelligence agencies has cast serious doubt on the ability of the Afghan government to stem the rise in the Taliban's influence there, and as the Bush administration has initiated a major review of its Afghanistan policy. 
 Part of the review will address increased troop levels. Gen. David D. McKiernan, the top American commander in Afghanistan, has said he needs as many as 15,000 combat and support troops beyond the 8,000 additional troops that President Bush recently approved for deployment early next year.
 But Admiral Mullen underscored a point he has made repeatedly in the past: the military can be only one part of the solution in Afghanistan.
 ''We've got to impact pretty significantly, pretty fast on the poppy issue,'' he said referring to the heroin trade, a scourge that by some estimates accounts for 50 percent of Afghanistan's economy and pours $100 million a year into the Taliban's coffers.
 General McKiernan said last week that NATO forces would be authorized to attack narcotics bosses, their foot soldiers and their infrastructure if they were linked to the movement of weapons, improvised explosives or foreign fighters into Afghanistan.
 But Admiral Mullen said a broader counternarcotics solution involving the 42 countries with a presence in Afghanistan had so far proved maddeningly elusive. ''There isn't universal agreement on how we should approach this,'' he said. ''We're all not in agreement on how to attack this problem.'' 
 In Thursday's breakfast session with reporters, he seemed slightly less hopeful that the negative trends could be reversed anytime soon. 
 Admiral Mullen cited, for instance, the need to ''move forward'' and increase engagement with tribal leaders in Afghanistan, an acknowledgment that the breakdown in central authority in Afghanistan has been accelerated by rampant corruption within the government of President Hamid Karzai. 
 He also expressed concern over the growing violence stemming from attacks by militants based in Pakistan's unruly tribal areas, a threat the United States has responded to with a growing number of missile strikes and even a Special Operations ground raid early last month. 
 A senior administration official said the increased airstrikes by remotely piloted Central Intelligence Agency Predator aircraft, as well as the ground raid on Sept. 3, were having some impact on Al Qaeda and Taliban fighters who are using the tribal areas as a sanctuary. 
 ''The people on the ground realize that the safety they'd grown accustomed to wasn't so safe,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the continuing operations. ''It puts them on the move. It has them talking on their networks. They may devote more manpower to posting guards and sentries. They move around and move away from the border, and don't stay in one location as long.'' 
 Admiral Mullen praised recent Pakistani Army operations against militants in Bajaur and Swat, and the recent leadership shake-up in Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate. But he expressed concern that Pakistan's domestic financial crisis, with increasing fuel and food costs, could hamper the government's ability to stage and finance sustained and effective counterterrorism operations. 
 Bush administration officials are trying to gear up international support to guard against a downturn in Pakistan's already fragile economy. Higher oil prices this year put a deep strain on Pakistan's oil subsidy program, and the government has raised oil and energy prices some 70 percent, a move that has not sat well with Pakistani people. 
 Beyond that, there has been a flight of foreign investment from the country, particularly in the weeks since the Marriott Hotel bombing in Islamabad, the capital, on Sept. 20. The worsening economic outlook in Pakistan has left administration officials scrambling to find aid for the country before things get worse.
 There may be one ray of sunshine amid the gloom, administration officials said. They said that the recent fall in the price of oil that had come about as the global financial crisis had worsened could actually be a boon to Pakistan, by easing the pressure on the Pakistani government, which still subsidizes energy costs in the country. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zabiullah Majahid, front, of the Taliban, led his group in the mountains of Helmand Province. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALIBAN (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEROIN (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); DRUG POLICY (69%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



380 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Indian Tribes See Profit in Harnessing the Wind for Power

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: ROSEBUD, S.D. 

 BODY:
The wind blows incessantly here in the high plains; screen doors do not last. Wind is to South Dakota what forests are to Maine or beaches are to Florida: a natural bounty and a valuable inheritance. 
 Native American tribes like the Rosebud Sioux now seek to claim that inheritance. If they succeed in building turbine farms to harness some of the country's strongest and most reliable winds, tribal officials like Ken Haukaas believe, they could create a new economic underpinning for the 29,000 tribal members whose per capita annual income is about $7,700, less than a third the national average.
 ''We're broke here,'' Mr. Haukaas said. ''We're poor.'' But, he added: ''The wind is free. There's energy here all the time.'' 
 Mr. Haukaas believes that ''the same thing that brought the buffalo brings the wind.'' 
 ''The buffalo were a gift,'' he continued. ''The wind is a gift.'' 
 In 2003, after erecting a 750-kilowatt turbine that powers the Rosebud Casino near the Nebraska border, the Rosebud Sioux tribal council set its sights on building the Owl Feather War Bonnet wind farm, a 30-megawatt project that could power about 12,000 homes, each about 1,200 square feet. 
 After five years of negotiations with a non-Indian developer, Distributed Generation Systems Inc. of Colorado, the tribal council president, Rodney M. Bordeaux, said Thursday that he expected to sign a construction deal that would bring in some $5 million to the tribe over 20 years. The total is about $1.7 million less than the developer's original offer because of an acrimonious last-minute dispute with the tribe.
 The idea of hitching tribal fortunes to the wind has gained momentum with the growth of the wind industry, which is expanding so fast that turbines are in short supply worldwide. 
 Half the states now require utilities to add renewable energy to their portfolios. The oilman T. Boone Pickens is proselytizing about the value of wind, and thousands of turbines have sprouted on the Texas plains. 
 If Native Americans can get into the business, some federal officials say, the hope is that wind, like casino gaming, could reshape their economies.
 ''It could be huge,'' said Lizana Pierce, the project manager with the tribal energy program at the Department of Energy.
 Here in the wind-rich Indian country, turbines are few, and deals to build them often do not come easily. Unpredictable cultural boundaries sometimes separate Indian tribal leaders, who have access to the wind, and non-Indian business executives, who raise the money to buy and install turbines, make deals to transmit the electricity to market and find buyers for it. 
 With just one significant wind farm operating on Indian land -- a 50-megawatt project on the Campo reservation near San Diego -- the Energy Department has been hoping for another to prove to wind developers that successful projects are possible. 
 Sandra Begay-Campbell, the principal member of the technical staff at the department's Sandia National Laboratories in New Mexico, said, ''People have been waiting for something to happen so you can point to the success and say, 'Look at this model.' '' 
 Other projects are in the offing; the Lower Brule Sioux tribe, to the northeast of Rosebud, recently struck a deal with Iberdrola Renewables, a subsidiary of the Spanish utility Iberdrola S.A., to build a 225-megawatt wind farm. 
 But only the Rosebud Sioux, Ms. Begay-Campbell said, ''are poised and ready to move toward the actual development and hardware.'' 
 The Energy Department has invested nearly $450,000 in the development of the Owl Feather War Bonnet wind farm, to be built on 50 acres in the western part of the Rosebud reservation. The department also recommended Distributed Generation Systems and its president, Dale Osborn, a seasoned hand in the wind-energy industry who has built small-scale projects in Colorado, Spain and China. 
 But it took the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs 18 months to sign off on the original deal, approved by the tribal council in 2006, under which the tribe would receive $280,000 in royalties the first year of the wind farm's operation. The amount would have grown each year, with the 20-year total topping $7 million.
 Mr. Haukaas, who is the tribe's project manager, said that from a landowner's standpoint, the offer was the most lucrative he could find. ''This is a $58.6 million project,'' he told the tribal council. ''We do not put up a dime. All we put up is the land.'' 
 During those 18 months, a tribal election was held, and the new council objected to the terms of the deal. 
 After tribal tax authorities recently decided that tribal sovereignty was at risk if a $1.17 million employment tax, the maximum possible, was not paid up front, Mr. Osborn complained bitterly to the tribe and to the reservation's Congressional overseers.
 ''I am frustrated beyond belief,'' Mr. Osborn said in a recent interview, adding that his deal with investors cannot bear the weight of the unexpected upfront costs unless royalty payments are lowered.
 But some of the council's 20 members were suspicious of Mr. Osborn and angry at his outbursts about the tax. 
 ''The people for these companies come and wave a couple of dollars in front of us, and we fall for it,'' a council member, Leonard Wright, said at a meeting on Oct. 2. 
 Another member, Robert D. Moore, said of Mr. Osborn: ''He questions our mentality. I question his.''
 A few years ago, a hog-farm company received an easement from the Rosebud Sioux in return for a percentage of net profits -- then showed little or no profit. Mr. Bordeaux, the tribal council president, said he had taken care to make certain that whoever developed the wind farm did not ''take advantage of us like the hog farm did.'' 
 Mr. Osborn emphasized that the tribe's royalty share would be taken from revenues, not profits. On Wednesday, he sent back to the tribe a revised deal that reduced the total payout over 20 years by $1.7 million, to a little more than $5 million, to accommodate the upfront tax payment.
 Despite the rancorous back and forth, Mr. Bordeaux said Thursday that he would sign off on the new arrangement. ''The main idea is we got that initiative going,'' he said. ''We can become a major player in wind in South Dakota.'' 
 Patricia Nelson Limerick, a history professor who is board chairwoman of the Center of the American West, at the University of Colorado, pointed to the ''several hundred years of mistrust between white folks and Indians'' in discussing the ''tangled'' process that led to the Rosebud Sioux's wind deal. ''If you average out the zigzags,'' Dr. Limerick said, ''it's moving in the right direction.''
 Mr. Osborn was less sanguine. ''Doing business on a reservation,'' he said, ''is more difficult than doing business in China.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A wind farm is proposed for the Rosebud Sioux reservation, in South Dakota, where the Rosebud Casino draws power from the one turbine to have gone up so far.
Rodney M. Bordeaux, the Rosebud Sioux tribal council president, said that with the proposed 30-megawatt wind farm, ''We can become a major player in wind in South Dakota.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Land of Winds: Large areas of South Dakota have winds strong enough to generate power for wind turbines that are 164 feet above ground. Some of the best sites are in the Rosebud Sioux Indian Reservation, where a 30-megawatt wind farm has been proposed. (Sources: National Renewable Energy Laboratory
 Bureau of Indian Affairs). Map details location of proposed wind farm of the Rosebud Sioux Reservation in Rosebud, South Dakota. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (87%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); GAMING (77%); CASINOS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



381 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: A Way to Save and Still Have Crisp Clothes

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
TOUGH economic times are forcing everyone to find ways to do things a little differently. 
 For consumers, that means finding creative ways to stretch a paycheck, like shopping at less expensive stores or machine-washing clothes that would normally be dry cleaned. 
 For retailers, it means helping customers cut back -- even if it means going outside their comfort zone. 
 A new partnership between the retailer Ann Taylor Loft and Procter & Gamble is turning stores into launching pads for two new products, Tide Total Care and Downy Total Care. Both products claim to cut down on dry cleaning bills by helping clothes look new for a longer time.
 The store chain is handing out free samples and coupons to customers who buy machine washable clothes, while posters and decals throughout the stores alert customers to the products' benefits. The retailer has also produced an eight-page magazine, available free in its stores, that provides tips on how to keep clothes looking fresh (hint: they require Tide or Downy Total Care).
 The arrangement may be the first of its kind between a consumer packaged goods company and a fashion retailer, most of whom avoid associating themselves with laundry detergent. But dwindling store traffic and budget-conscious shoppers have retailers like Ann Taylor experimenting.
 ''The partnership between Loft and P.& G. is not typical, and we admit that at first we had concerns,'' said Robert Luzzi, chief marketing officer of Ann Taylor Stores. ''But we decided that the partnership at this time was incredibly relevant for our clients in this pretty tough economy.'' The promotion started in September and will run through November.
 Ann Taylor operates about 360 of its stores and more than 500 of its lower-price Loft outlets in the United States, but announced plans this year to close about 117. (The company's stock has dropped by about 10 points in the last year.) Overall sales in the women's apparel category have dropped by about 3 percent, according to the research firm NPD. 
 ''The economy is fairly tough right now, and we want to deliver value for our clients,'' Mr. Luzzi said. 
 For Procter & Gamble, which is based in Cincinnati, the introduction of the Total Care line represents years of research into preserving the shape and color of clothes after repeated washes. The ads assert that they keep clothes looking new for up to 30 washes.
 At a time when people are looking to save money, Procter & Gamble sees an opportunity to attract customers who will gladly machine-wash clothes they formerly dry cleaned if there is no loss in quality. 
 ''Women and families can't afford to buy clothes as frequently, and are searching for ways to keep clothes looking newer longer,'' said Kash Shaikh, a manager of communications for the North American fabric care unit of Procter & Gamble. ''Women spend $1,500 a year on dry cleaning, and 65 percent of those clothes are actually machine washable.''
 The company is spending $60 million to market the new products, the largest marketing investment ever in its fabric care category, Mr. Shaikh said. Tide accounts for $3.2 billion in annual sales, and Downy about $1 billion, he said.
 Pairing a retail brand with a product like detergent is ''definitely a new and cool idea at this level,'' said Mike Gatti, executive director of the National Retail Federation, a trade group. ''Target did it years ago by making ads that featured lots of different brands, but this is different because it's a high-end clothing store.''
 It is a message that could resonate now, which would be good news for struggling retailers like Ann Taylor, said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst at NPD. 
 Retailers are looking ''for any reason they can give customers to come in,'' he said. ''This message is different. It says, 'We understand you want clothes that are going to last.' '' 
 In addition to the partnership with Ann Taylor, the introduction includes three TV commercials -- one for Downy and two for Tide -- and special events and Web promotions. P.& G. is also running print ads, some of which include the Ann Taylor brand, for the first time in fashion magazines like Elle and InStyle. The TV spots are running on networks like NBC, ABC and CBS.
 The ads for Tide were created by Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe; ads for Downy were created by Grey, part of the WPP Group. 
 Procter & Gamble has also enlisted the help of fashion arbiters like Tim Gunn from the Bravo series ''Project Runway'' and the celebrity stylist Jorge Ramon, who make several appearances throughout the campaign. The idea is to assure women that they do not need to spend a lot of money on dry cleaning to keep their clothes looking stylish. 
 Indeed, Procter & Gamble said it approached Ann Taylor because the stores appealed to the target audience for the new detergents: budget-conscious women who are interested in fashion. 
 ''This idea of fashion combining with value, that's why Loft was a perfect fit for us,'' Mr. Shaikh said. 
 In addition to the giveaways and signs, Ann Taylor Loft will hold events around the country in coming months where women will have a chance to get personal styling tips from Mr. Ramon. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tide Total Care and Downy Total Care from Procter & Gamble on display next to clothing at Ann Taylor Loft stores. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (78%); PACKAGED GOODS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FAST MOVING CONSUMER GOODS (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (84%); ANN INC (73%); ANNTAYLOR RETAIL INC (57%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (84%); PG (NYSE) (84%); ANN (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (84%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (70%) OHIO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



382 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Plan B: Flood Banks With Cash

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
Banks are supposed to lend money, but they aren't doing very much of it these days. That is not the only cause of the global recession that is unfolding, but it is hard to see how economies can begin to recover without functioning financial systems.
 The American government has responded by taking over more and more of the lending itself, while using indirect means to shore up the banking system. It has not worked.
 Never in history have the Federal Reserve and the Treasury announced more plans to try to fix the financial system within a span of a few months -- and rarely have investors been less impressed. 
 The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks is down 22 percent since the end of September, and 42 percent since it peaked a year ago. 
 It may be time to try a new approach, and perhaps to abandon the announced details of the bailout plan passed by Congress with such difficulty only a week ago. The government needs to decide which banks it is sure are worth saving, and pump capital into them directly.
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. indicated this week that he was considering such an approach, which would be much simpler and could be much more effective.
 The announced plan for the bailout package was for the government to buy up dubious assets from banks, paying more than they are worth now but less than they are expected to be worth later. 
 If that is completed, banks will get cash -- $700 billion or more. But their net worth will rise only to the extent the government overpays for the assets. Pricing those assets will be anything but easy, and the expectation of the government program has further frozen those markets. No one wants to sell until they can find out what the government will offer.
 The alternative is to go in the direction Britain went this week. The government could use the $700 billion, or at least a large part of it, to buy preferred stock in banks.
 The government could be selective in deciding which banks get the cash, and it could impose conditions on those that seek the money. Those banks could be required to come clean about the risks that they have taken in dubious assets, and to write those assets down to what a willing buyer would pay now. 
 With that information, the government may decide to let some banks fail. But the others, in which the government does invest, would have a government seal of approval that was backed up by cash.
 And a lot of cash. A rule of thumb might be that if the government thinks a bank needs $4 billion in additional capital, it gets $8 billion. 
 The terms could be arranged so that the government gets a reasonable profit if the bank can pay the money back within five years, and can convert its stake into common stock only if that deadline is not met. That would give the current shareholders hope that their stock will be worth something someday, and perhaps avoid the further sell-offs that could otherwise arrive with the plan. 
 For much of the 14 months this crisis has been growing, the government has believed it was one of illiquidity -- a temporary inability to raise cash -- rather than insolvency -- the issue when a financial institution is broke. The assumption was that the banks really would be fine when worries went away, and they had to be helped over that temporary hump. The Federal Reserve expanded both the amount it was willing to lend and the collateral it would take to back up loans.
 The crisis, it turns out, is one of a lack of solvency, not just liquidity, and that is why banks fear to lend to one another. Each bank knows the games it has played in valuing assets -- or at least could have played -- and is loath to believe the balance sheets of other banks. That suspicion has chilled the interbank lending market. 
 The sad saga of the American International Group is one reason for that chill. When A.I.G. first said it needed help, $40 billion was said to be all it needed. Now the total is over $120 billion, as more problems are found.
 One European precedent that the Treasury could study was used this week when the government of Denmark guaranteed both deposits in Danish banks and all interbank loans. The banks were ordered to halt dividend payments and share buybacks. 
 Given their need for capital, it is odd that most American banks are paying any dividends at all. Even after reductions, most big American bank shares now yield more than 3 percent, and some more than 7 percent. 
 Yet few of the banks are confident they have enough capital, or that their competitors do, which is why they are reluctant to lend. In that atmosphere, does it make any sense to reduce capital by paying dividends? Should the government funnel money to companies whose owners are getting big payouts while the banks report large losses?
 In the absence of a functioning financial system, the Federal Reserve announced plans this week to lend money to companies that cannot get credit in the free market. Those loans will be made at low interest rates, with no equity for the government and no controls over how the money is spent.
 It ought to make anyone nervous to have the government allocating capital, which in this environment could mean it is making the decision to let companies live or fail. 
 How will the Federal Reserve deal with that quandary? What interest rate will it charge if it is the only lender willing to put up cash to buy a company's commercial paper? There are no answers available.
 The Fed does say it will not buy more commercial paper from a company than the company had outstanding in August. And it will cut off a company if one of the rating agencies downgrades it.
 Doesn't it make you feel better to know that the Fed has subcontracted its investment decisions to Moody's and its competitors? 
 Ideologically, this is not what either Republicans or Democrats would have proposed a few months ago. But desperate times produce desperate tactics.
 ''The central bankers all learned the lesson of the 1930s,'' said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG, a Wall Street firm. That lesson was that if the choice is between allowing the system to collapse and writing a lot of checks, you write the checks and forget about ideology.
 Unfortunately, none of them learned the lesson of the 1920s, which is that when asset prices soar, it is not a good idea to sit around doing nothing, as the Fed did for most of the housing boom. Cheerleading, which it sometimes did, is even worse.
 One aspect of this crisis is that the people in charge of the financial system -- in the banks, at the Fed and other central banks and at the Treasury Department and other finance ministries -- consistently underestimated the damage, both to the system and to the world economies. At first, many thought the damage would be limited to losses from a small group of mortgages. Banks raised a little capital, but not nearly enough.
 As the problems spread, they kept offering reassuring words, which they might well have believed. Those words provided brief comfort for some, but destroyed a lot of credibility. 
 As recently as Sept. 18, after Lehman Brothers had gone broke and it was clear that consumers were cutting back, the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee thought the economy could come through. ''Participants agreed that economic growth was likely to be sluggish in the second half of 2008,'' said the minutes of the meeting. ''Several participants had marked down their near-term outlook for economic activity and some judged that downside risks had increased, but most continued to expect a gradual recovery in 2009.''
 We should be so lucky as to get sluggish growth for the remainder of 2008. The gross domestic product seems likely to show significant declines, and those declines may continue into 2009.
 The real problem, which many preferred to ignore because they had no ready answer, was that the financial system was breaking down. The excesses of lending and gambling had destroyed the new financial system -- the one built on securities as an alternative to bank lending -- and left the old commercial banks too weakened to step in.
 Or, in the words of Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman, ''In the U.S., the market took over. The market has flopped.'' 
 Now, added Mr. Volcker, ''everybody is running back to Mother, the commercial banking system.''
 Unfortunately, Mother is very ill. Even worse, her children do not trust one another, and that is why the system is frozen.
 In 1933, when Franklin Roosevelt became president amid a panic, he declared a bank holiday that closed the banks while federal examiners went over their books. When the holiday was over, the government closed some banks and declared the rest were healthy.
 In reality, there was no way the government could be sure of that. But the public accepted it, and the bank runs stopped.
 This time, the government has offered too many assurances that turned out to be false. It will take cash to convince the public -- and the other banks -- that the survivors are safe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Everybody is running back to Mother, the commercial banking system,'' the former Fed chairman Paul A. Volcker said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD KOROL/REUTERS)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (79%); BAILOUTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); COMMON STOCK (74%); PREFERRED STOCK (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



383 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Luxury and Clothing Retailers Feel a Pinch, but Discounters Less So

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
 Dismal sales results for September from mall-based apparel chains, released on Thursday, offered more evidence that American consumers, spooked by the financial turmoil, have shut their wallets tight.
 The reports increased worries about the holiday shopping season, which was already expected to be bleak.
 Even TJX -- whose stores offer discounts on designer brands and which had been one of the few bright spots in apparel sales -- was not immune. The retailer, which is based in Framingham, Mass., and operates chains like T. J. Maxx and HomeGoods, lowered its profit outlook as it reported an unexpected drop in sales at stores open at least year, a crucial indicator also called same-store sales. 
 Others retailers, like Gap, Abercrombie & Fitch and Chico's FAS, which were mired in a sales slump for months, fared far worse, reporting double-digit sales declines at stores open at least a year.
 The reports came a day after many major retailers, including Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, Target and department stores like J. C. Penney and Saks reported their September results. Many retailers reported a day earlier than usual because of the Yom Kippur holiday on Thursday.
 Wal-Mart was among the few winners, posting a modest sales gain, but even its results were a bit below analysts' estimates, indicating that shoppers were sticking to necessities.
 ''This is very worrisome. It really puts a gloomy feeling as to what can happen for the holiday season,'' Jharonne Martis, an analyst at ThomsonReuters, said. 
 According to the latest tally by Thomson Reuters, same-store sales for September rose a meager 0.8 percent, the weakest September performance since the research firm started tracking retail sales data in 2000. The pace is well below the 1.9 percent average gain from January through August. Excluding sales figures from Wal-Mart, same-store sales fell 0.9 percent last month.
 Same-store sales of 36 retail chains rose 1.0 percent last month, according to the final tally of the International Council of Shopping Centers. It was the weakest September performance since 2001, when the pace was up a meager 0.9 percent in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks. 
 The best performers were wholesale clubs, which posted an average increase of 7.4 percent. Luxury stores were the biggest losers, with a 10.9 percent sales drop, according to the council.
 TJX, hurt by a strong dollar, reported a 1 percent drop in same-store sales on Thursday, below the 0.5 percent gain expected by analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. 
 The chief executive of TJX, Carol Meyrowitz, said that while she acknowledged that consumers were worried, she believed that with the company's well-controlled inventories, the savings it offers customers and its financial strength, it is in an ''excellent position going into the holiday season.''
 Gap, dragged by a deep sales slump at its Old Navy division, reported an 11 percent same-store sales drop, deeper than the 8.3 percent decline expected.
 Chico's had a 15.6 percent drop, worse than the 13.0 percent decline projected. Chico's also withdrew its earnings outlook for the second half of the year because of the difficult economy and unstable financial markets.
 The teenagers' retailer Abercrombie & Fitch reported a 14 percent drop in same-store sales. That was much worse than the 8.1 percent drop expected.
 Abercrombie also warned on Thursday that earnings for the second half of its fiscal year would most likely come in well below previous forecasts because of continued economic difficulties and declining consumer confidence. It also issued third-quarter profit guidance significantly below Wall Street's expectations.
 Another teenagers' retailer, Hot Topic, posted a 2.9 percent decline in same-store sales; results were better than the 4.3 percent decline expected.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Retail Sales in September: GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
 SALES: Results are for the five weeks that ended Oct. 4, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier.(Source: Goldman Sachs, based on company reports.) Chart details bar graph for sales and Goldman Sachs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); YOM KIPPUR (72%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); WAL-MART STORES INC (74%); T J MAXX (57%); CHICO'S FAS INC (56%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); WMT (NYSE) (74%); CHS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (74%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (56%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (56%)

PERSON: CAROL MEYROWITZ (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



384 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM TOKYO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Scarred by Past Woes, Japan Sees U.S. Bailout as a First Step

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
As America's financial crisis has deepened, Japan has found itself gripped by a sense of deja vu.
 The unfolding drama on Wall Street and in Washington has brought an outpouring of comparisons by Japan's press and policy makers to their own country's banking meltdown in the 1990s and its costly government bailouts. Overwhelmingly, the conclusion seems to be that last week's $700 billion rescue package is only the first step in an arduous journey toward financial recovery similar to the one that Japan made a decade ago.
 ''America is walking the same road as Japan, and that road will be long and hard ahead,'' said Hirofumi Gomi, a former commissioner of the Financial Services Agency in Japan, the industry watchdog that oversaw the banking cleanup. ''There is a lot more pain and turmoil coming.'' 
 The similarities with Japan are striking. Like the United States today, Japan in the early 1990s faced a banking and real estate crisis that undermined the entire economy and required large government intervention. Some of Japan's most venerated financial institutions collapsed as snowballing losses from failed business and property loans plunged the nation's financial system into paralysis.
 But the differences are also pointed and revealing. The United States reacted far more quickly than Japan, committing taxpayer funds just over a year after the subprime mortgage problems surfaced in summer of 2007. Japan took nearly eight years to pass a sweeping bailout, a delay that contributed to a long economic slump that Japanese call their ''lost decade.'' 
 ''Japanese government and financial institutions realized there was a problem, but they tried to cover it up,'' said Junichi Ujiie, chairman of Nomura Holdings, Japan's largest investment bank. ''The United States has done in months what Japan took years to do.''
 Indeed, Japan, where government guidance of banking and big industry was commonplace, fell into a prolonged state of denial, deferring painful write-offs by its banks. Instead, Japan tried to reflate its way out of the mess with heavy public works spending, racking up a huge national debt. When those stimulus efforts failed, the country was finally forced to at least partly break up the collusive ties between business and government that had slowed a real cleanup and to create the more independent Financial Services Agency to restore faith in its market oversight.
 These bitter memories, still raw here, have made Japan sympathetic to Washington's efforts and reluctant to lecture America, even though Japanese banks have escaped the current crisis relatively unscathed so far because they held little American mortgage debt. That is in contrast to the 1980s, when Tokyo was fond of rebuking Washington for its economic failings, or the 1990s when Americans did the same to the ailing Japan. 
 Rather, Japan has taken a more self-flagellant view, eagerly pointing to its past failures as a cautionary tale of the challenges and pitfalls that could still lie ahead for Americans. But just how similar America's and Japan's roads are remains a matter of debate. 
 For one, the easy cash that fueled the two countries' real estate bubbles came from different sources. Japan's bubble was domestically financed and lubricated by excessively low interest rates. The United States borrowed heavily from overseas, especially from China and Japan. America's more transparent financial system exposed underlying problems relatively quickly, while Japan spent years understating the losses at its banks with fuzzy accounting methods.
 Still, one striking similarity was the intense public resistance in Japan to a taxpayer-financed bailout, even after it became apparent that financial companies were in trouble. When Japan finally made its first injection of public funds, putting some $6.5 billion in 1995 into nonbanking real estate lenders, the effort stirred public outrage, including sit-ins in Parliament by opposition lawmakers. It was not until 1998 that Japan finally committed taxpayer funds to a sweeping financial cleanup, only after the collapse of large banks and brokerages, including Yamaichi Securities. 
 That is about the point in the crisis the United States has reached with last week's bailout package, many Japanese economists and business leaders say. In Japan's case, some of the most costly and wrenching steps were yet to come.
 In Japan, the first $17 billion bailout package, disbursed in 1998, proved woefully inadequate. As the true size of the lending losses became apparent, the government was forced to make a second bailout of $82 billion in 1999 to shore up the capital at weakened lenders by buying their stock. The government also committed billions more to buying problem loans, reimbursing depositors in failed institutions and taking over several banks. When the crisis finally passed around 2004, Japan, an economy about 40 percent the size of the United States', had spent some $450 billion on its bailouts. 
 Most of the government officials, business leaders and economists interviewed praised America's plan to spend $700 billion buying troubled mortgage-related assets from banks. But they also said they expected that Washington would soon have to put together another huge bailout package, this time to recapitalize American banks, especially with the International Monetary Fund now estimating total bank losses from the subprime mortgage crisis to reach $1.4 trillion. 
 On the other hand, another lesson from Japan is that the American bailout may end up costing taxpayers far less than $700 billion or whatever the final figure may be. Japanese regulators were eventually able to recover all but $100 billion of the $450 billion spent by selling off the troubled loans and bank stocks later, after the economy had rebounded.
 A final lesson may be that the crisis will spill over into the real economy, confronting America with the prospect of a long, grim recession. But that might not be all bad, said Yukio Noguchi, a finance professor at Waseda University, if the recession forces Americans to consume less and kick the habit of overseas borrowing.
 ''The final chapter of the crisis,'' Dr. Noguchi said, ''may be when Americans finally learn to live within their means.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Outside a securities firm in Tokyo. Japan went through its own banking meltdown and bailouts in the 1990s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUNJI KUROKAWA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Junichi Ujiie, chairman of Nomura Holdings, said the United States in its financial crisis did in months what it took Japan years to do. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); NOMURA HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); NMR (NYSE) (58%); N33 (SGX) (58%); 8604 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



385 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 2163 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Film Series
 EAST COAST ANIMATION (Friday) As part of the Museum of Modern Art's continuing series devoted to filmmaking in the New York area in the 1920s and '30s, this 4:30 p.m. program of 12 short films includes some classics from the Fleischer brothers (''KoKo's Earth Control,'' 1928; Betty Boop in ''Snow White,'' 1933); Otto Mesmer (''Felix in Hollywood,'' 1923) and the Van Beuren Studio (''Puzzled Pals,'' 1933); as well as Norman McLaren's 1940 ''NBC Valentine Greeting.'' Repeated on Oct. 19. (Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Dave Kehr) 
 FLAHERTY NYC (Monday) In existence since 1955, the Robert Flaherty Film Seminar has sponsored screenings of nonfiction films and helped to introduce the work of directors like Robert Drew, Robert M. Young and Mira Nair to American audiences. The group is now beginning a screening series, at 7:30 p.m. on the second Monday of each month, drawn from works entered in the 2008 program. This week's premiere installment will feature the work of Oliver Husain, a German-Indian filmmaker now residing in Toronto, who uses a variety of techniques, from documentary to appropriated Bollywood dance sequences, to create what the Flaherty's curator, Chi-hui Yang, calls ''a new language to deal with an interconnected, globally flattened reality.'' Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 448-0457, flahertyseminar.org; $10. (Kehr)MAD OBSESSIONS: THE FILMS OF BARBET SCHROEDER (Friday through Thursday) The Bamcinematek continues a series devoted to the heteroclite work of Barbet Schroeder. It examines him as a producer (of, for example, the two short films by Eric Rohmer screening on Monday, ''The Girl from the Monceau Bakery'' and ''Suzanne's Career'') and as a director of documentaries (''Terror's Advocate,'' Friday) and fiction films (''Barfly,'' on Saturday). On Tuesday the producer Ed Pressman will introduce one of Mr. Schroeder's most accomplished films, the 1990 ''Reversal of Fortune,'' starring Jeremy Irons as Claus von . BAMcinematek, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $11. (Kehr)
 PAUL SCHRADER'S PERSONAL CHOICE (Sunday) At Symphony Space, a continuing series of double bills pairing a film by the distinguished American director Paul Schrader with a film chosen by the distinguished American film historian Paul Schrader. This Sunday brings Mr. Schrader's 1990 adaptation of Ian McEwan's creepy tale of sexual predation, ''The Comfort of Strangers,'' accompanied by Stanley Kubrick's 1962 icy adaptation of Vladimir Nabokov's ''Lolita.'' Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org, $11. (Kehr) 
 MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'AN AMERICAN CAROL' (PG-13, 1:23) Michael Moore and the blame-America-first set are satirized, sort of, in this lazy, mean-spirited movie by David Zucker. (Nathan Lee)'APPALOOSA' (R, 1:47) Ed Harris, who directed, stars with Viggo Mortensen, Renee Zellweger and Jeremy Irons in this sly, relaxed western, which is less concerned with gunfighting and law and order than with jealousy, friendship and the perils of frontier romance. It's a somber shoot-em-up with the mischievous soul of a sex comedy. (A. O. Scott) 
 'BATTLE IN SEATTLE' (R, 1:38) A visceral fictional account of the 1999 demonstrations in Seattle against the World Trade Organization, ''Battle in Seattle'' repeatedly plunges you into the melee of peaceful protest gone awry. But its characters are rhetorical mouthpieces, and its subplots manipulative. (Stephen Holden)
 'BEVERLY HILLS CHIHUAHUA' (PG, 1:25) As multimillion-dollar frivolities about the pets of the ruling class go, ''Beverly Hills Chihuahua'' is reasonably diverting. As one released in the middle of an economic meltdown, its mere existence feels utterly insane. (Lee)
 'BLINDNESS' (R, 2:01) An outbreak of metaphor threatens civilization. A fine group of actors -- especially Julianne Moore and Mark Ruffalo as a doctor and his wife -- does its best to save this adaptation of Jose Saramago's overrated book from its dull, earnest allegorical intentions. (Scott)
 'BOOGIE MAN: THE LEE ATWATER STORY' (No rating, 1:26) Generous in spirit and nimble in technique, this riveting documentary about the Republican operative (who died of a brain tumor in 1991) reveals a scrappy genius rife with contradictions. Assembling a wealth of found footage, the director, Stefan Forbes, deftly positions his subject as both the savior of the Republican Party and the Antichrist of American politics. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'BURN AFTER READING' (R, 1:36) A predictably self-amused comedy from Joel and Ethan Coen with a tricky plot, visual style, er, to burn, but so little heart as to warrant a Jarvik 8. With George Clooney, Frances McDormand and Brad Pitt. 
 (Manohla Dargis)
 'CHOKE' (R, 1:32) Marinated in the aesthetic of cooler-than-thou irony and hip transgression, this absurdist comedy, adapted from a novel by the ''Fight Club'' author Chuck Palahniuk, is clever but not laugh-out-loud funny, except for a couple of hilarious riffs. (Holden) 
 'CHRISTMAS ON MARS' (No rating, 1:25) The Oklahoma band the Flaming Lips are the stars of this dreamy movie, which loosely concerns a remote, imperiled Red Planet outpost on Christmas Eve. The lead singer, Wayne Coyne, who directed, plays a horned alien who arrives in a glowing orb and dons a Santa suit. But forget plot; it's all about the black-and-white images, bursts of psychedelia and homemade-looking but sometimes lyrical effects. And the great soundtrack. (Andy Webster) 'THE DARK KNIGHT' (PG-13, 2:32) Pitched at the divide between poetry and entertainment, Christopher Nolan's follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind. With Christian Bale as the big bat and a spellbinding Heath Ledger as the smiler with the knives. 
 (Dargis)'THE DUCHESS' (PG-13, 1:45) An overstuffed, underbaked portrait of the cosseted, tightly corseted late-18th-century life of Georgiana Spencer, the Duchess of Devonshire. Saul Dibbs directs, Keira Knightley stars, and Ralph Fiennes acts. 
 (Dargis)
 'EAGLE EYE' (PG-13, 1:58) Shia LaBoeuf and Michelle Monaghan on the run from something. From what? A ticked-off government computer, apparently. Did I spoil it? Sorry. I mean, you're welcome. (Scott)'FIREPROOF' (PG, 2:02) In this film aimed at the Christian market, Kirk Cameron plays a firefighter who tries to save his marriage by embarking on a faith-based regimen called the Love Dare, but his wife (Erin Bethea) seems unresponsive. It's a much better attempt to merge storytelling with faith than is usual for the genre, and the amateur cast is surprisingly good. (Neil Genzlinger)
 'FLASH OF GENIUS' (PG-13, 2:00) In this doggedly workmanlike and passionless variation on the lone crusader doing battle with the big, bad establishment, Greg Kinnear plays the real-life inventor of the intermittent windshield wiper who sued Ford for stealing his patent. (Holden)'GHOST TOWN' (PG-13, 1:43) A misanthropic dentist (Ricky Gervais), a roguish ghost (Tea Leoni) and a zany Egyptologist (Greg Kinnear): as this unlikely threesome scamper around Manhattan in this fluffy latter-day hybrid of ''Topper'' and ''Blithe Spirit,'' they resurrect the spirits of classic'30s screwball characters in Woody Allen territory. (Holden)
 'A GIRL CUT IN TWO' (No rating, 1:50, in French) A rich, textured divertissement from Claude Chabrol, a sinister master of the art, who here returns to elegant, tight form with a beautifully directed story of a woman (Ludivine Sagnier) preyed upon by different men (Francois Berleand, Benoit Magimel) and her own warring desires. (Dargis)
 'IGOR' (PG, 1:26) An animated twist on the Frankenstein story that never sparks to life, ''Igor'' inhabits a cloud-covered kingdom where evil scientists are rewarded for diabolical inventions. John Cusack competently voices the hunchbacked servant who assembles a female monster, but kiddies will be undiverted by the humdrum animation and a palette that mirrors the film's moral and meteorological gloom. (Catsoulis)
 'I SERVED THE KING OF ENGLAND' (R, 1:58, in Czech) There is hardly a moment in this picaresque slapstick epic, directed by Jiri Menzel (''Closely Watched Trains'') and set mainly in 1930s and '40s Czechoslovakia that you are not aware that its absurdist view of the human condition was shaped by traumatic 20th-century events. (Holden)
 'LAKEVIEW TERRACE' (PG-13, 1:46) In this silly exercise in mock provocation, Samuel L. Jackson plays a Los Angeles police officer who terrorizes his new neighbors, a perfectly nice interracial couple played by Patrick Wilson and Kerry Washington. (Scott) 
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'MIRACLE AT ST. ANNA' (PG-13, 2:40) Spike Lee's World War II drama about a squad of African-American soldiers fighting in Italy is overlong and ungainly, but it has enough moments of warmth and conviction to make it a worthy addition to the combat genre. (Scott)'MY BEST FRIEND'S GIRL' (R, 1:43) Kate Hudson's latest star vehicle is an uncharacteristically racy comedy in which she breaks it off with a legal associate (Jason Biggs). He then turns to his exceedingly crude roommate (Dane Cook), who makes extra cash taking girls on the worst dates of their lives to prompt them to race back to their exes. Guess whom she ends up falling for? (Laura Kern)
 'NICK & NORAH'S INFINITE PLAYLIST' (PG-13, 1:30) Teenagers falling in love on the tame night streets of Manhattan. As thin as an iPod Nano and as sweetly self-conscious as a Facebook page, but not without charm. (Scott)
 'NIGHTS IN RODANTHE' (PG-13, 1:37) Richard Gere and Diane Lane fumble like teenagers and mouth some pitiful, platitudinous, risible dialogue in a soggy romance directed by George C. Wolfe and based on a Nicholas Sparks book. (Dargis)
 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'RELIGULOUS' (R, 1:41) The comedian and outspoken religious nonbeliever Bill Maher travels the world interviewing Christians, Jews and Muslims about their beliefs, which he views as dangerous nonsense.
 (Holden)
 'RIGHTEOUS KILL' (R, 1:40) Robert De Niro and Al Pacino go macho-a-macho in a thrill-free B-movie thriller (more like C-minus) that probably sounded like a grand idea when their handlers whispered it in their ears. Jon Avnet directed. (Dargis)
 'A SECRET' (No rating, 1:45, in French) Claude Miller's adaptation of Philippe Grimbert's autobiographical novel is a subtle and moving exploration of intimacy and desire in a French Jewish family before and after World War II. (Scott)
 'TOWELHEAD' (R, 1:56) This provocative satire of a culture that is paradoxically hypersexual and puritanical is set during the first gulf war in a spanking-new upscale housing development on the outskirts of Houston. In its preoccupations, this crude but scathing portrait of suburban life might be described as ''Son of 'American Beauty.' '' (Holden)
 'TROUBLE THE WATER' (No rating, 1:33) While making this superb documentary about that natural and unnatural disaster, Hurricane Katrina, the filmmakers Carl Deal and Tia Lessin hit the jackpot when they meet two New Orleans survivors, Kimberly and Scott Roberts, who rode out the storm with a video camera. (Dargis) 
 'TYLER PERRY'S THE FAMILY THAT PREYS' (PG-13, 1:51) The suds that cascade through Tyler Perry melodrama more than equal the cubic footage from nighttime soaps like ''Dallas,'' ''Dynasty'' and their offspring. (Holden)
 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
 'WILD COMBINATION: A PORTRAIT OF ARTHUR RUSSELL' (No rating, 1:10) This exquisite documentary by Matt Wolf pays homage to the soulful sounds of Arthur Russell, an extravagantly gifted musician who died of AIDS in 1992. (Lee)
 'THE WOMEN' (PG-13, 1:54) ''What is this, some '30s movie?'' a character asks in this misbegotten remake of George Cukor's feline look at female friendship and rivalry. If only. (Scott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); ANIMATION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FILM HISTORY (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (74%); HISTORY (73%); BAKERIES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



386 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1053 words

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
As the financial markets skid wildly, some collectors are waging bets that art will be viewed as a safe haven. 
 Among them is Lars Ulrich, a songwriter and the drummer for the heavy-metal band Metallica, who has consigned ''Untitled (Boxer),'' a 1982 painting by Jean-Michel Basquiat, for sale by Christie's in New York next month. ''Of course it's an awkward time to sell, but I've always been about taking chances,'' Mr. Ulrich said. 
 ''I have a lot of faith in the art market,'' he added. ''It's perhaps the last frontier where the best of the best will not go the way of the rest of the economy.'' Recently his collecting has gone in a different direction, he said. Rather than relying on auctions, he has begun scouring galleries, buying the work of emerging artists.
 The Basquiat, which goes on the block Nov. 12, depicts a victorious black boxer, his hands waving in the air, against a richly painted background filled with the artist's signature graffiti scrawl. The figure is part hero, part warrior, part victim. It is also said to be autobiographical. 
 The artist, who died of a drug overdose in 1988 when he was just 27, grew up in Brooklyn, where he liked to while away time at the Brooklyn Museum. ''I realized that I didn't see many paintings with black people in them,'' he once said, adding, ''The black person is the protagonist in most of my paintings.'' 
 ''Untitled (Boxer)'' was one of the centerpieces of the 2005 Basquiat retrospective at the Brooklyn Museum, which also went to the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles. Mr. Ulrich bought it in 1999 after seeing it in a show in Vienna. 
 To promote the painting to an international audience, Christie's is hanging it Friday in its King Street galleries in London. The showing is timed closely to the Frieze Art Fair, which will attract hundreds of collectors to London next week. (The fair opens to the public next Thursday.) It will also be the cover image of the sales catalog for the New York auction on Nov. 12. 
 ''We're talking about a very finite amount of material by an artist who died young,'' said Brett Gorvy, a co-head of Christie's postwar and contemporary art department. Although Christie's coyly states that the sales estimate can be obtained ''on request,'' Mr. Gorvy said it could bring $12 million to $16 million. 
 The question is whether it will fare as well as an untitled Basquiat canvas from 1981 -- of a primitive figure with clenched teeth, his oversize hands held high in the air -- that brought $14.6 million at auction last year, a record for the artist. Mr. Ulrich is no auction novice: in 2002 he sold five works at a Christie's auction in New York, including Basquiat's ''Profit I'' (1982), a dark canvas dominated by a skeletal black man that brought $5.5 million, a record for the artist at the time. ''This is my last Basquiat,'' he said.
 A NEW YORK 'DREAM'
 In 2003 the Las Vegas casino owner Stephen A. Wynn declined to lend ''The Dream,'' his 1932 Picasso portrait, to the Museum of Modern Art's landmark ''Matisse Picasso'' exhibition because he felt the insurance offered by the Modern was not good enough. 
 On Wednesday, ''La Reve''(''The Dream'') is to go on view at Acquavella Galleries on East 79th Street in Manhattan as part of ''Picasso's Marie-Therese,'' a show of 12 paintings, two drawings and a plaster sculpture of the artist's mistress Marie-Therese Walter that will run through Nov. 29.
 ''Bill's paying for insurance,'' Mr. Wynn said in a telephone interview, referring to William Acquavella, the gallery's owner. ''He's my buddy and my art dealer. How could there be a Marie-Therese Walter exhibition without 'La Reve'?'' In 2003 Mr. Wynn's leeriness was driven by concerns over terrorism. A lot has happened to the painting since then, including an expensive accident of his own making. Two years ago, after agreeing to sell ''The Dream'' to the hedge-fund billionaire Steven A. Cohen for $139 million, Mr. Wynn accidentally put his elbow through the painting, leaving a sizable hole that prompted Mr. Cohen to back out of the sale. 
 After three months of restoration, ''The Dream,'' which depicts Walter asleep on a bright red armchair, has been repaired. Mr. Wynn is also lending ''Still Life With Tulips,'' another 1932 Picasso, for the show. Neither is for sale, he said. 
 Nor are any of the other works in the exhibition, according to Mr. Acquavella. ''It's a show I've wanted to do for a long time,'' he said. Among the lenders are the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, the Tate in London, the Morgan Library and Museum and the Nahmads, dealers with galleries in New York and London. Private collectors, including Leslie H. Wexner, founder of Limited Brands, and the Long Island collector Adele Klapper are also lending Picassos. 
 Mr. Acquavella said the show was about ''public relations'' more than anything else. ''Right now nothing is for sale,'' he said. ''One or two could possibly be, but I doubt it.'' Then, like a true dealer, he paused and added: ''I'd like to have them all for sale. It would be fun.'' 
 SHUNK FINDS A HOME
 The Roy Lichtenstein Foundation has made its first acquisition: the photographer Harry Shunk's archive. Shunk, who died in 2006 at 81, was known for photographing art by the likes of Yves Klein, Arman, Jean Tinguely, Niki de Saint Phalle and Christo, creating extensive records of their work. He also photographed artists, among them Magritte, Man Ray, Alexander Calder and Lichtenstein. 
 Jack Cowart, director of the Lichtenstein Foundation, said that Dorothy Lichtenstein, the artist's widow, who is president of the foundation, had been approached by an appraiser about buying the archive, which consists of more than 100,000 items, including more than 60,000 of Shunk's printed photographs. 
 The foundation bought the archive in August at a public estate auction conducted by the public administrator of New York. ''It was in extreme distress,'' Mr. Cowart said of the Shunk archive. 
 The foundation will soon begin to organize and study the archive and plans to make it available to scholars. ''We won't keep it forever,'' Mr. Cowart said. ''In time it will become clear which institution or institutions we should give it to.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Untitled (Boxer)'' (1982), by Jean-Michel Basquiat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



387 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 313 words

 BODY:
U.S. AND BRITISH CONSENSUS The United States and Britain appear to be converging toward a common solution for the financial chaos sweeping the world, one day before a crucial meeting of financial leaders begins in Washington. 
 LATE DAY DIVE In the busiest day ever at the New York Stock Exchange, markets plunged late in the session, with the Dow Jones industrials closing down 679 points. The credit markets remained in near paralysis [A1.] 
 INSURERS UNDER FIRE Shares in insurance companies are being battered, suggesting that consolidation and recapitalization lies ahead. [B1.] 
 MACK'S PREDICAMENT After another rough day for Morgan Stanley -- its stock fell 26 percent, and new doubts arose about a $9 billion infusion from Japan -- it seemed Morgan's chief, John Mack, can't catch a break. [B1.] 
 TO STIMULATE SPENDING The Democratic leadership in Congress is considering another fiscal stimulus proposal to spark spending by consumers and city and state governments. [B1.] 
 ICELAND GOES UNDER Iceland's financial system collapsed, and analysts said the country would have to turn to the International Monetary Fund for help. Iceland's prime minister, Geir Haarde, above, declined to say if he would seek I.M.F. help. [B6.] 
 Estonia, the former Soviet republic that has embraced capitalism, is reluctantly turning to state intervention as it confronts an economic slowdown. [B6.] 
 GM SHARES SINK A dire new forecast for vehicle sales battered the shares of auto companies, particularly General Motors. [B1.] 
 Toyota may create a separate brand for its Prius hybrid car, and could add models to the lineup, a Toyota official said. [B7.] 
 MIXING SOAP AND FASHION A partnership between the retailer Ann Taylor Loft and Procter & Gamble is turning stores into launching pads for two new products that claim to help clothes look newer longer. Advertising. [B4.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); INSURANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (65%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); ANNTAYLOR RETAIL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (54%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ICELAND (93%); ESTONIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



388 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Dead Chickens, Amends, and an Outcry

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
Last week before Rosh Hashana, Rabbi Shea Hecht of Crown Heights, Brooklyn, said he was bombarded with hundreds of e-mail messages, phone calls, faxes and letters within a short time, one of them threatening. 
 In general, the messages protested the tradition of kaparot -- sometimes spelled kapparot or kapparos -- in which Orthodox Jews take live chickens, swing them over their heads as a means of symbolically transferring sins to the chickens, and then slaughter them on the eve of Yom Kippur, the Jewish day of atonement.
 ''I got over a thousand e-mails in one hour,'' Rabbi Hecht said on Wednesday before the start of Yom Kippur. He said that he showed the messages to the police, but that no formal investigation was under way. 
 He immediately suspected People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, which has mounted a campaign against the practice over the past few years, even producing a 10-minute video of the practice in Brooklyn (one of the scenes shows the chickens being stuffed into orange traffic cones).
 The tradition consumes tens of thousands of chickens each year in Brooklyn.
 But Bruce G. Friedrich, vice president of PETA, denied that his organization was behind the organized bombardment, though he was vocal about the chicken ritual in an interview on Thursday. ''Rabbi Hecht is supporting grotesque cruelty behind thousands and thousands of animals,'' he said. 
 PETA has been documenting the rituals over the last few years, but Mr. Friedrich said the group was not behind the anti-chicken-ritual spam. 
 ''If anyone is really sending threatening or anti-Semitic e-mails, that is both immoral and counterproductive,'' Mr. Friedrich said. ''It's unfortunate when someone hands an animal abuser cause for self-righteousness.'' PETA representatives had met previously with Rabbi Hecht.
 According to some rabbis, the kaparot custom may trace its origins to the destruction of the Holy Temple, when the high priest chose one of two goats on Yom Kippur through a lottery and designated it to absorb the sins of the people of Israel. Now, chickens and roosters are commonly used.
 Rabbi Hecht's father, J. J. Hecht, now deceased, played an instrumental role in the early 1970s in reviving the tradition, which had slowly died out in Brooklyn. ''It was less and less observed because there were no kosher slaughterhouses down the block anymore,'' Rabbi Hecht said, ''so you didn't have the ability of going to your local butcher.''
 Now the Brooklyn rabbis arrange for local slaughtering, which takes hours based on the sheer volume of chickens. ''We're still out there, still koshering the chicken,'' Rabbi Hecht said early Wednesday.
 Asked if multiple people could use the same chicken before it was killed, as a strategy to reduce the volume of chicken carcasses, Rabbi Hecht said yes. but then he explained, ''In today's world, when a chicken doesn't cost that much money, people are like, 'I can afford my own chicken.' '' 
 To make it easier, he said his congregation subsidized the chickens by buying them in bulk. ''We charge the people only $2,'' he said. But as part of a fund-raiser on Tuesday night, the rabbi said he charged as much as $13 for the chickens, with a discount for students.
 (Can live chickens really cost as little as $2? Even with the rising cost of food and the state of the economy, apparently so.)
 Rabbi Hecht defended the practice: ''What I do is 100 percent within the right of my religious freedom within the country.''
 But the ritual has come under criticism even within the local Jewish population. Few of the chickens are eaten, and one report from 2005 said that they were not being slaughtered in a manner consistent with kosher standards. A number of cases were reported in which proprietors left for Yom Kippur and the chickens were abandoned and died en masse. And last year, rabbis met to discuss evidence that chickens may have been mistreated in past years.
 Some rabbis have strongly opposed kaparot, suggesting either that it is a pagan ritual or that it violates Jewish teaching about the humane treatment of animals. Some have suggested alternatives to chickens, such as fish, or a charitable contribution.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yoni Aranoff, 13, with Myron Robinson, his grandfather, doing the kaparot ritual in Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL RIGHTS (90%); POULTRY (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); YOM KIPPUR (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); ROSH HASHANAH (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (76%); POULTRY PROCESSING (76%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (73%); EMAIL MARKETING (73%); ANIMALS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



389 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Auto Shares Plunge On a Grim Sales Forecast

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
A dire new forecast for global vehicle sales battered the shares of auto companies on Thursday, particularly General Motors, whose stock plunged more than 31 percent and was the hardest hit of the 30 companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
 The quickening decline in recent days and weeks in the value of G.M. shares -- as well as those of Ford Motor, which fell 21.8 percent on Thursday -- drove the market capitalizations of both automakers down to surprising lows. 
 At Thursday's stock price, G.M. was worth just $2.69 billion and Ford $4.7 billion.
 Investors, already nervous about the impact of tighter credit and a worsening economy on showroom traffic, were given a new dose of gloomy news on Thursday from the research firm J. D. Power & Associates.
 The firm cut its forecast for United States sales this year to 13.6 million vehicles, a 16 percent decline from last year's total, and it said 2009 sales could fall as low as 13.2 million.
 J. D. Power previously estimated sales of 14.2 million this year and 14 million in 2009. 
 The slowdown in sales will also extend to Europe, China and India, putting increasing pressure on automakers to cut costs and accelerate revamping plans.
 ''While the global automotive industry is clearly experiencing a slowdown in 2008, the global market in 2009 may experience an outright collapse,'' said Jeff Schuster, head of auto forecasting for J. D. Power.
 In addition to G.M.'s troubles in the United States, where its sales have fallen 17.8 percent so far this year, the company said Thursday that its European sales had dropped 1.9 percent through the first nine months of this year. 
 With vehicle sales slumping to 15-year lows, analysts are concerned about the liquidity of G.M. and Ford and their ability to finance operations as their revenues decline and they continue to eat into cash reserves.
 G.M. lost $15.5 billion in the second quarter and ended the quarter with $21 billion in cash. However, the company is burning through more than $1 billion a month and has been unable to tap the debt market to raise additional money.
 The credit-rating agency Standard & Poor's put G.M. on ''watch with negative implications'' on Thursday, and one industry expert said the company was running dangerously low on cash.
 ''I would have to say there is a possibility of bankruptcy, but the probability is low,'' said David Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.
 G.M. is trying to cut $10 billion in costs and raise $5 billion though the sale of assets like its Hummer brand.
 Despite the squeeze on its balance sheet, G.M. reiterated Thursday that it is not considering a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing.
 ''The company remains focused on our turnaround initiatives and liquidity-raising actions outlined in July,'' said a G.M. spokeswoman, Renee Rashid-Merem. ''Bankruptcy protection is not an option G.M. is considering.''
 G.M. and Ford are hardly alone in trying to cope with the startling drop in auto sales.
 Industry volumes began falling in the spring because of rising gas prices and soft economic conditions.
 But the financial crisis on Wall Street turned September into a disaster. The lack of available credit for car loans, coupled with waning consumer confidence, led to a 26.6 percent decline in sales for the month.
 Investors have seen their holdings in G.M. and Ford sink sharply after a steady stream of bad news from the car companies. The downturn hammered even industry stalwarts like Toyota Motor and Honda Motor, which offer more fuel-efficient, small-car models than the Detroit automakers.
 Toyota's sales fell 32.3 percent during the month and Honda dropped 24 percent. To stimulate showroom traffic, Toyota recently began offering zero percent financing on a wide variety of its models.
 ''We're in a very difficult industry right now,'' said James Lentz, president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. ''And what's most difficult right now is consumer confidence.''
 Mr. Lentz made his comments on Thursday after a ceremony to open Toyota's $187 million technical center in York Township, Mich.
 While the occasion should have called for a celebration of Toyota's growth in Detroit's backyard, the mood was overshadowed by the gloom in the auto market.
 ''We're in the middle of the storm right now, and I can't predict when it will end,'' Mr. Lentz said. ''The number of people wanting to purchase is strong, but the downside is the number of people postponing these purchases.''
 The J. D. Power forecast offered little hope for a quick turnaround.
 ''Any truly pronounced recovery appears to be more than 18 months away,'' Mr. Schuster said.
 And the impact of the credit crisis is spreading rapidly to other regions of the world, he said.
 Sales in Europe are expected to fall 3 percent this year from 2007, according to J. D. Power. While sales in China will grow 9.7 percent this year, the total will be less than half of the 24.1 percent rate of growth achieved in 2007. Similarly, India's 5.1 percent growth rate this year will be decidedly lower than the 16 percent increase recorded in 2007. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Toyota Motor celebrated the opening of a $187 million technical center in Michigan on Thursday while a robotic trumpeter played.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B7) CHART: An Accelerating Decline: Share prices of the three largest automakers have tumbled since October 12, 2007 when Ford and GM peaked.(Source: Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for car companies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FORECASTS (92%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (63%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



390 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Analysts Welcome Latest Plan, but Have Concerns

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Industry analysts on Thursday welcomed a plan under which the government would take direct ownership positions in struggling banks, saying the measure could restore investor confidence in the skidding financial system. 
 At the same time, they said government-held equity positions in private banks would represent a major new exercise of government power, and that most banks would only seek such aid if they had nowhere else to turn.
 Treasury Department officials said the recently passed $700 billion bailout bill gave them the power to directly funnel equity into private banks, and the White House spokeswoman, Dana Perino, said Thursday that while the government would consider taking an ''equity stake'' in troubled banks, it would not take them over.
 Stocks have continued their downward spiral despite the bailout legislation, and analysts who track banking and finance said the government needed to make another move to shore up the financial markets.
 ''This is a confidence issue,'' said Brad Hintz, an analyst with Sanford Bernstein. ''They're saying, 'We're not going to allow major banks to continue to go down.' What the government's trying to do is act like a linebacker in football. You can't fill all the holes, but you can fill the hole where the guy's trying to come through. By being back there, they give a level of confidence to the marketplace. It's pretty necessary right now.''
 Frederick Cannon, an equity strategist at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, said that governments in Europe have directly intervened to address banking crises, rather than limiting themselves to buying up troubled assets. Britain is offering some $87 billion in return for equity and Sweden took ownership stakes in its failing banks during its 1992 financial crisis.
 It appears the Treasury plan to shore up banks would be voluntary, but many other details of how it would work remain unclear.
 Mr. Cannon said that such sweeping intervention raised broader questions about who would get help, and the government's expanding role in the financial crisis.
 ''There's all kinds of issues here that come into play: moral hazard issues, fairness issues,'' he said. ''Are we going to allow the privatization of profits and the nationalization of losses? If I were a Washington Mutual shareholder, I'd be pretty unhappy.''
 Brett Rabatin, a banking analyst with FTN Financial, said banks with heavy portfolios of construction loans in California, Florida and the Pacific Northwest might be good candidates to ask for government intervention.
 ''It's a move in the right direction,'' Mr. Rabatin said. ''If the economy continues to be weak and consumers pull back, a lot of banks are going to end up needing some additional capital. The markets may not be as willing to step up to the plate.''
 It remains to be seen whether banks will step forward and accept partial government ownership, or what will happen to their stock prices or shareholder confidence if they do.
 ''Plan A is to participate in the government's bailout plan,'' said Dave Chiaverini, an analyst with BMO Capital Markets. ''If they can't get the prices they're looking for, and if a bank run were to ensue, that's when they'd look to the government as a last resort.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); ATHLETES (66%)

COMPANY: KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (54%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



391 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Disaster in California

 BODY:
The mandatory sentencing craze that has swept the country over the last 30 years did little to cut back the drug trade, but it drove up the prison population and pushed corrections costs to ruinous levels. The process was especially destructive in California, where a federal court has placed the prison system's dangerously decrepit medical services under a receiver who wants the state to cough up $8 billion to bring that system up to constitutional standards. 
 The last thing California residents need at this point are new policies that land even more people behind bars and drive up prison spending further. But November's ballot in California, the birthplace of irresponsible government by referendum, includes two costly initiatives that would do just that. 
 California voters need to reject Propositions 6 and 9. 
 Proposition 6, which is misleadingly titled the Safe Neighborhoods Act, recreates the failed criminal justice policies of the past. According to an analysis by the state attorney general, this proposal would make about 30 changes in criminal laws and would create entirely new crimes, some with the potential to produce additional life sentences.
 It would expand the conditions under which juveniles could be tried as adults, flying in the face of federally backed studies that show that making it easier to try juveniles as adults causes more crime, not less. 
 It would cost Californians nearly a billion dollars, for starters, in spending on law enforcement, and prosecution -- money that would be diverted from, among other things, health, education, parks and environmental protection. Over the years, Proposition 6 would drive the state deeper into the hole by requiring automatic funding increases keyed to inflation. 
 Proposition 9 is in some ways even more extreme. It would amend the constitution to give victims an outsize influence in criminal cases turning dispassionate justice into family vengeance. 
 It also would worsen prison overcrowding by restricting early-release programs, and it would undermine law and order behind bars by eliminating incentives for good behavior. According to a state analysis, this measure could potentially cost states and localities hundreds of millions of dollars a year. 
 Californians have harmed themselves before by adopting costly programs that drain state coffers while providing for no new funding. To do so again at this perilous point would be fiscal suicide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (90%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); REFERENDUMS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); SUICIDE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



392 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Insurance Industry Joins Banking Giants on the Hot Seat

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Months after the stocks of big Wall Street financial firms first came under attack, insurance companies are now being battered, suggesting that a similar round of consolidation and recapitalization may be in store for that industry. 
 Insurance stocks have plunged more than 30 percent in the last five days, with Prudential Financial the big loser on Thursday. Prudential's stock fell $10.02, to $33.27 a share, and it is now 42 percent lower than a week ago. A United States senator's offhand remark hurt the group last week, but the group is continuing to suffer far more than the broader market. Investors are worried about falling earnings and the prospect that many in the sector may need additional capital, which would dilute their own shares.
 Hartford Financial Services Group raised $2.5 billion by selling shares to Allianz, the German insurer, on Monday. The Hartford's shares closed at $20.11 Thursday, down $4.75. 
 MetLife, the largest American life insurer, which warned earnings would be sharply lower in the third quarter, raised $2 billion in a stock sale on Wednesday. Even though existing shareholders were left with a smaller stake in the company, investors seemed heartened that the company could get funds readily, making it one of the few winners on a day when all 30 stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average fell. MetLife closed at $28 a share, up $1. 
 When the government bailed out American International Group, there was little talk of a widespread downturn in the insurance industry. A.I.G. was seen as unique because it was a large issuer of a type of derivatives contracts that were far less prevalent at other insurers. Those derivatives brought A.I.G. to the precipice.
 But now a wave of losses is moving throughout the insurance industry, caused by the seize-up of the credit markets and declining investment values. 
 ''Insurance companies tend to focus on high-quality investments,'' said Douglas L. Meyer, an insurance analyst at Fitch Ratings. When the declines were mainly in the lower-quality investments, he said, the industry was relatively sheltered from harm. 
 Now, though, Mr. Meyer said, ''the depths of the current credit crunch is starting to affect the high-grade securities, so that's starting to affect the insurance companies more.''
 For now, analysts do not see insurers in precarious situations. But if the investment losses keep mounting, they will start eating away at insurers' capital. Even insurers with conservative investment portfolios, like MetLife, are not immune. 
 The investment losses will also pose a problem for insurers with big retirement divisions, especially life insurance companies. They deal in investment products that guarantee a certain rate of return. Now the insurers will have to make those payments out of their diminished assets. 
 Insurers whose business models involve large amounts of short-term paper, or other obligations that are maturing soon, also risk being caught short if the credit markets stay frozen. If they have to start selling securities to produce the cash to pay their obligations, they could end up dumping the instruments in a market that has many sellers and almost no buyers.
 ''If the distressed market conditions persist, this will negatively impact insurance company liquidity,'' Mr. Meyer said. 
 Fitch lowered its outlook for the life insurance sector to negative from stable at the end of September. It said it thought some insurers had delayed recognizing unrealized investment losses this year, in hopes their impaired assets would regain value. But that has not happened, so the industry is likely to write down more impaired assets in the coming months. 
 Weaker institutions may have trouble raising new money if their capital is eroded, and the government may be unwilling to come to the aid of more insurers after rescuing A.I.G. That suggests a consolidation and reshaping of the industry is in store. 
 Though MetLife was one of the first big insurers to raise capital in this downturn, it appears to be one of the least in need. Even before it sold 75 million shares for $26.50 a share Wednesday, it had some $4 billion more than the level associated with a strong capital base.
 John Hall, a securities analyst at Wachovia, said in a report issued Thursday that he saw MetLife's stock sale ''as a pre-emptive maneuver to facilitate the company's ability to take advantage of emerging strategic opportunities, including the possible acquisition of A.I.G. units.'' 
 A.I.G. has announced it is selling a large number of its insurance subsidiaries to raise money to pay off its $85 billion bridge loan from the Federal Reserve. MetLife, meanwhile, has expressed an interest in expanding its foreign operations. 
 As of Thursday, Hartford Financial Services had been among the most punished by investors. Its stock has lost more than half its market value this month, prompting the Connecticut insurance commissioner, Thomas R. Sullivan, to issue a statement on Thursday that the Hartford's ''financial strength remains solid.'' 
 Hartford's slide began in earnest after a comment by Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, during the debate over the $700 billion Treasury bailout program. Mr Reid said in a television interview that he had heard that a major insurer, ''one with a name that everyone knows,'' was on the verge of going bankrupt. He later said he misspoke.
 Property and casualty insurers tend to be somewhat less vulnerable to investment fluctuations than life insurers, but they are also showing signs of strain. Even the A shares of Warren E. Buffett's well-known holding company, Berkshire Hathaway, have lost market value, closing Thursday at $114,000, down $4,000 a share, and off 17 percent in the last five days.
 Mr. Buffett is nevertheless making big investments in municipal bond insurance and in companies like Goldman Sachs and General Electric. 
 But most insurers are under siege. Prudential Financial issued a statement Thursday saying the operating income from its financial services businesses would be no more than $375 million in the third quarter, compared with $907 million in the third quarter last year. Along with other investment losses, Prudential will write down investments on securities in Lehman Brothers, A.I.G. and Washington Mutual. Prudential, which will issue its third-quarter earnings on Oct. 29, also said it was suspending a stock buyback program to conserve capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%)

COMPANY: HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (92%); ALLIANZ SE (90%); METLIFE INC (86%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (52%)

TICKER: HIG (NYSE) (92%); ALV (FRA) (90%); ALV (BIT) (90%); MET (NYSE) (86%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); PRU (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (86%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (86%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



393 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: As Consumers Reduce Their Spending, Wholesale Inventories Are Rising

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Inventories for wholesale merchants rose 0.8 percent in August, higher than analysts had expected, while sales dropped the most in more than a year and a half, the Commerce Department reported on Thursday. 
 Wall Street analysts polled by Reuters had expected inventories to gain 0.5 percent, compared with a 1.5 percent rise in July that was previously reported as 1.4 percent.
 Sales fell 1 percent after dropping 0.8 percent in July, which was originally reported as a much smaller decline of 0.3 percent. The last time sales dropped that much was in January 2007, when they fell 1.4 percent.
 Slowing sales and swelling inventories pushed up the inventories-to-sales ratio, a measure of how long it would take to sell stocks at the current sales pace, to 1.10 months' worth from 1.08 months' worth in July.
 Sales of nondurable goods, which make up more than half of wholesale sales, fell 0.6 percent in the month. Petroleum was the biggest drag on the category, with a 2 percent decline.
 Sales of durable goods dropped 1.5 percent in August after falling 0.2 percent in July. Inventories of durable goods, though, rose 1.4 percent.
 In other economic news, the number of workers filing new claims for jobless benefits fell 20,000 last week, in line with forecasts, as the impact of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike eased, government data on Thursday showed.
 Initial claims for state unemployment insurance benefits declined to a seasonally adjusted 478,000 in the week ended Oct. 4, from a revised 498,000 the previous week, the Labor Department said. It was the lowest reading since mid-September, but claims remain at levels indicating a weak employment climate.
 ''The overall message is that the labor market remains quite weak,'' said Anna Piretti, senior economist at BNP Paribas in New York. ''We know claims have been boosted by the storms, but the trend remains sharply up and the economy is deteriorating.'' 
 Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast 478,000 new claims versus a previously reported count of 497,000 the week before.
 The four-week average of new jobless claims, a better gauge of underlying labor trends because it irons out week-to-week volatility, rose to 482,500 from 474,250 the week before. This was the highest since October 2001.
 This measure has mounted steadily as the housing slump in the United States has chilled growth and crimped hiring.
 ''We haven't peaked,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at Global Insight in Lexington, Mass.
 ''It's going to get worse. We're going to lose a lot of jobs in the immediate future.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.(Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRENDS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (53%); BNP (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



394 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Travel) MOST HAUNTED LIVE! Yvette Fielding, left, and her team of paranormal sleuths travel to Gettysburg, Pa., for a seven-hour live investigation of the most historically significant locations and landmarks in and around the Civil War battlefield. Viewers will be able to monitor Web cams and communicate with the team by way of message boards, texting and something called psychic art. 
 10 A.M. (55); 3 P.M. (NBC) THE ELLEN DeGENERES SHOW Christina Applegate discusses her battle with breast cancer; Sheryl Crow, a breast cancer survivor, performs. 
 10 A.M. (ABC) RACHAEL RAY Ms. Ray offers grooming tips for hirsute men. As an example, one man gets his chest waxed.
 8 P.M. (ABC) WIFE SWAP Sandi McCaslin, who can bench-press 341 pounds, trades lives with Donna Deekens, who spends her time hosting tea parties while costumed as a princess, a Victorian lady or a fairy queen and who believes a lady never sweats. Ever.
 8 P.M. (CBS) GHOST WHISPERER Melinda (Jennifer Love Hewitt) reconnects with some high school classmates after another one unexpectedly dies.
 8 P.M. (CW) EVERYBODY HATES CHRIS Chris (Tyler James Williams) agrees to help a student in his home economics class learn to bake if the classmate will hook Chris up with a dishy girl.
 8 P.M. (NBC) AMERICA'S TOUGHEST JOBS The six remaining contestants must not only drive monster trucks but also install 800-pound tires and crush cars, while being judged on creativity and safety.
 8 P.M. (TCM) PRIME TIME FEATURE: GEORGE HAMILTON Freshen up your spray tan: The sun-bathed Mr. Hamilton joins Robert Osborne for this minifestival featuring three of Mr. Hamilton's most popular films, starting with ''Where the Boys Are'' (1960), about spring break in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., which wasn't much of a stretch for an actor who had spent his adolescence in Palm Beach. The film also stars Dolores Hart (right, with Mr. Hamilton) and Yvette Mimieux. In ''Light in the Piazza'' (1962), at 10, Mr. Hamilton plays a dapper Florentine who woos the beautiful but mentally handicapped daughter (Ms. Mimieux) of an American tourist (Olivia de Havilland). And in ''Your Cheatin' Heart'' (1964), at midnight, Mr. Hamilton portrays the country singer and songwriter Hank Williams.
 8 P.M. (The N) DEGRASSI: THE NEXT GENERATION In the hourlong Season 8 premiere, Mia (Nina Dobrev) gets to be a cheerleader and a model when she finds someone else to take care of her child after school. At 9, ''South of Nowhere'' begins its final eight episodes.
 8:30 P.M. (13); 10 P.M. (49) NOW ON PBS An examination of the interlocking problems of high gas prices and the housing crisis. 
 9 P.M. (ABC) SUPERNANNY Jo Frost travels to Papillion, Neb., where Dorothy and Kip Baulisch, who are deaf, are struggling to raise four hearing children while relying on their eldest daughter, Melissa, to run their household.
 9 P.M. (CBS) THE EX LIST Bella Bloom (Elizabeth Reaser), a florist searching for her soul mate before time runs out, continues to pore over her list of former boyfriends. Here she reunites with Jake, a onetime slacker turned fitness fanatic who plans extreme activities for their dates.
 9 P.M. (TLC) WHAT NOT TO WEAR Stacy London and Clinton Kelly surprise some of their favorite makeover subjects at home and snoop through their closets to see if they've abided by Ms. London and Mr. Kelly's fashion rules.
 9 P.M. (USA) THE STARTER WIFE Debra Messing reprises her role as Molly Kagan, the Hollywood wife traded in by her studio-honcho husband for a younger model, in this series spun off from the 2007 mini-series based on the book by Gigi Levangie Grazer. Ms. Messing and Ms. Granger are among the show's executive producers. Judy Davis returns as Joan. 
 10 P.M. (CBS) NUMB3RS Don (Rob Morrow) investigates a series of kidnappings at ATMs. Charlie (David Krumholtz) meets with the F.B.I. investigator (Keith Carradine) who can grant him security clearance, or not.
 10 P.M. (NBC) LIFE Crews (Damian Lewis) and Reese (Sarah Shahi) must track down a killer after a university's prison experiment goes wrong and one of the students acting as a corrections officer ends up dead. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); FILM (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); CIVIL WAR (72%); TEXT MESSAGING (71%); BREAST CANCER (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); SONG WRITING (60%); COUNTRY MUSIC (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



395 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: Another Afternoon Turns Dark As Worry Sends Stocks Plunging

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Reporting was contributed by Laura M. Holson, Louise Story, Graham Bowley and Diana B. Henriques.

 BODY:
Until 3 p.m. on Thursday, it seemed as if the stock market might escape another dark day. 
 Then the selling hit -- and hit and hit again, mimicking trading on Tuesday and Wednesday. What had been a moderately down day ended in a rout, with the Dow Jones industrial average closing down 679 points, or 7.3 percent, leaving it below 9,000 for the first time in five years. 
 In the busiest day in New York Stock Exchange history, panicky investors dumped stocks en masse. Almost no corner of the market was spared, with 1,754 stocks falling and just 87 rising on the Big Board.
 Despite unprecedented steps by policy makers around the world to defuse the financial crisis, fear is spreading that a deep global recession is at hand. The credit markets, the heart of the financial system, remained in near paralysis. 
 ''There is a downward spiral of fear,'' said Richard Sparks, senior equities analyst at Schaeffer's Investment Research. 
 The plunge came in a stomach-churning 90 minutes. The Dow was down just 140 points at 2:30 p.m., and 200 points at 3. But then, wave after wave of selling began to roll through the market. By 3:20, the index was down 380 points. Ten minutes later, it was down 390 points. By 3:45, it was down 660. After staging a brief rally, it fell again.
 In the last six trading days -- starting last Thursday -- the Dow has plummeted 2,251.8 points, or 20.8 percent, a decline big enough, on its own, to mark the start of a bear market. It also is similar to the drop in the Dow on Black Monday, Oct. 19, 1987, when it fell 22.6 percent.
 Big oil companies like Exxon Mobil and Chevron pulled the Dow lower, falling by roughly 12 percent each. 
 General Motors, the embattled automaker, fell $2.15, to $4.76. As a group, financial shares were hit the hardest, falling nearly 12 percent.
 At current prices, analysts say, the market is suggesting that investors fear the kind of severe and long recession the country has not had since at least the early 1970s.
 Reflecting concerns about the economy, crude oil prices fell 2.7 percent, to $86.59 a barrel. OPEC, the oil-producing cartel, on Thursday called an emergency meeting for Nov. 18 to consider cutting an output in an attempt to arrest the 41 percent drop in oil prices in the last three months.
 Asian markets also reacted strongly to the turmoil. In Japan, the Nikkei 225 index was down 10 percent on Friday morning, after having plunged 9 percent on Wednesday. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong fell 7 percent and the market in Singapore was down 6.8 percent.
 What has prompted the late-day sell-offs recently is a subject of intense debate and conjecture, even among market professionals, who also have been unnerved by the free fall of the week. 
 Some attribute it to mutual funds' waiting until midafternoon to execute sell orders from a growing number of investors who are cutting their exposure or bailing out of the market altogether. Others say that hedge funds, which have leveraged returns in recent years by using borrowed money, are having to sell holdings to raise collateral against their borrowings. 
 Still others say computerized trading, which has grown significantly in recent years, often kicks in later in the day, when certain thresholds are breached. 
 But whatever the reasons for the late-day plunges, what is driving the market down is a lack of confidence by investors, who are skeptical that the many measures taken by the government to rescue the financial system will work. Moreover, they worry that the government's trotting out a new initiative every day or two is a sign that maybe the situation is worse than many thought.
 Some who have held on until now are starting to sell. Since the start of the year, investors have removed more than $81 billion from stock mutual funds, with nearly 40 percent of that coming in the last six weeks, according to AMG Data Services.
 Trevor Callan, a financial planner in La Jolla, Calif., said he has been bombarded by calls since Wednesday from nearly every one of his clients.
 ''The bottom line here is we're witnessing complete panic,'' Mr. Callan said. ''There are certainly periods of time where rationality is thrown out the window, and this is one of them.''
 The staggering decline in stocks has some investors questioning when the markets will stabilize. In fact, some pros believe that stocks bottom when many average investors pull out on a day of heavy selling -- also known as capitulation. 
 Michael Cerenzie, a film producer, said he had been selling out of his million-dollar position in banking stocks and was looking to invest in companies specializing in natural gas and energy. 
 ''This isn't going to come back,'' he said of the recent stock market losses. ''This is going to be a long one. We are not going to see returns like we did in the past.''
 Individuals are not the only ones bailing out. Market professionals are also selling, often even when they do not want to.
 Many hedge funds have been forced to sell stocks and bonds this week because their lenders, big banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, demanded that they put up more capital against their positions and pay down margin loans. 
 Those demands are determined by a variety of factors like rising volatility and falling prices -- all of which have been true in the last few days. In addition, because the banks are paying more to borrow money themselves, they are charging hedge funds more for loans, several bankers said.
 Hedge funds, which cater to pension plans, endowments and wealthy individuals, have also had to sell to meet redemption requests from their clients. 
 With hedge funds selling and banks, including several in Iceland, in trouble, the market is experiencing ''really big liquidations,'' said Kingman Penniman, president of KDP Advisors, a bond research firm.
 Those sales have driven down prices to such an extent that bank loans, which are considered much safer than bonds, are trading at levels implying that nearly a third of them will go into default. As of the end of September, defaults have climbed to just 3.3 percent.
 ''We are flushing out the system,'' Mr. Penniman said. Referring to bankers and investors, he said, ''They have decided that there is little they can do. We wanted to de-lever the whole financial system, and the hope was that it would be done in a orderly fashion. And they have given up all hope of that.''
 Jane Caron, chief economic strategist at Dwight Asset Management, a bond trading firm, said professional investors were increasingly reluctant to buy because the computer models they used in the past had failed them. Like many everyday investors, the professionals fear that even though prices have fallen significantly, they could sustain further losses.
 ''Nobody is willing to transact,'' Ms. Caron said, ''and behind that, there are a lot of concerns about solvency.''
 What happened on Thursday partly reflects the unintended consequences of regulators' attempts to bolster stock prices several weeks ago, when the Securities and Exchange Commission temporarily banned short-selling in nearly 1,000 stocks. 
 That restriction was lifted at midnight on Wednesday. Short-selling is a practice in which investors sell shares they do not own in the hopes of buying them back later at a lower price. Many money managers use it to hedge their investments against future losses.
 Analysts said those investors were probably forced to sell shares short on Thursday to protect themselves.
 Those explanations not withstanding, many money managers said they had not seen stocks beaten up quite this much in a long time. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is now down nearly 42 percent from its peak a year to the day from Thursday. 
 That decline makes this the third-worst bear market since World War II and the sixth-worst since 1929, according to Standard & Poor's Equity Research. It would also qualify as one of the speediest declines in stock prices in history. The S.& P. 500 closed down 7.6 percent, to 909.92. The Dow closed at 8,579.19. Nearly 8.3 million stocks were traded on the New York exchange.
 John Dorfman, manager of the Dorfman Value Fund, a mutual fund based in Boston, said he thought a bottom was near. While the economy is most likely in a recession, he said, he does not expect a depression. ''A crisis always feels bottomless, and it usually isn't,'' he said.
 Robert M. Solow, who won the Nobel Prize in 1987 for his work on economic growth, said that ''potential for instability was always there,'' but he was caught by surprise at the magnitude of the problems in the economy and financial system. 
 ''I'm as puzzled as anyone else,'' he said. ''I don't have any particular wisdom to sell.'' 
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury bill fell 1 9/32, to 101 23/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 3.79 percent, up from 3.64 percent late Wednesday.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of the 7-year note, 10-year note and 97-day cash management bills:

CORRECTION-DATE: October 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the stock market's plunge misstated the number of shares that were traded on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday. It was nearly 8.3 billion -- not million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thursday was the busiest day in the history of the New York Stock Exchange, starting quietly before a 90-minute free fall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A26) CHARTS: DOW INDUSTRIALS: In recent days, the stock market has suffered some of its sharpest losses near the end of the trading day. (Source: Bloomberg)(A1)
10-Year Treasury Notes: High yield in quarterly refunding auction. (Source: Treasury Department)
Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg)(A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (85%); CARTELS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); OIL EXTRACTION (67%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); SINGAPORE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



396 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Wells Fargo Wins the War for Wachovia

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Jonathan Glater and Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
One of the biggest showdowns on Wall Street ended with a whimper Thursday when Citigroup walked away from efforts to block a deal between Wachovia and Wells Fargo, paving the way for a merger that would concentrate power within the American banking industry to just a few firms.
 Citigroup, which mounted a whirlwind legal battle after Wachovia spurned its $2.2 billion government-brokered deal last week for a surprise, superior offer by Wells Fargo, said it would continue to seek $60 billion in legal damages. 
 The decision to abandon a partial takeover occurred after Citigroup grew nervous about the size of bad assets it would need to take from Wachovia, according to a person briefed on the discussions. 
 A deal with Wachovia would elevate Wells Fargo to a prime position in the American banking industry, with the largest nationwide deposit and branch franchise in the country. Together, Wells Fargo and Wachovia will have $1.42 trillion in assets, 48 million customers and 280,000 employees. 
 The combined bank will be present on both coasts in the fastest-growing markets, playing on the same field as JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, two of the nation's largest banks.
 Citigroup had sought to catapult itself into just such a position when it agreed with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation only 11 days ago to buy pieces of Wachovia just as the bank was teetering on the verge of collapse. 
 ''We did not seek the Wachovia transaction; Wachovia brought it to us,'' Vikram S. Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup, said. The bank added that its shareholders had been ''unjustly and illegally deprived of the opportunity the transaction created.'' But even if Citigroup obtains legal damages, which legal experts doubt, by abandoning its bid for Wachovia, it lost its best chance to keep pace with the rapid consolidation of the banking industry. 
 Citigroup had sought retail deposits to help shore up its capital base because like other banks, it holds many mortgages, credit card loans and other kinds of debt that are more of a concern in a slowing economy. 
 After several days of legal wrangling that Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York president Timothy Geithner sought to referee, Citigroup and Wells Fargo came to a legal truce Monday and sat down to discuss dividing Wachovia. 
 As recently as Wednesday, Citigroup and Wells Fargo appeared close to a solution that would give Wells Fargo about 80 percent of Wachovia's deposits and branches on the West Coast and in the Southeast, as well as Wachovia's big retail brokerage and mutual fund operations. Citigroup would get 20 percent of Wachovia's deposits, mostly in branches in the mid-Atlantic and the Northeast. 
 By Thursday, however, the negotiations reached an impasse after Citigroup concluded that the price it was being asked to pay for a slice of Wachovia was too much compared with the quantity of below-investment grade assets it would be absorbing, according to people briefed on the matter. 
 In its original agreement, brokered by the F.D.I.C., Citigroup would have taken on the first $42 billion in losses -- leaving a degree of exposure to the taxpayer -- and the agency would have backed the rest. 
 Wells Fargo, which said Thursday it would proceed with the deal, was more willing to take on Wachovia's risks without government support to secure a transaction that would allow it to grow into one of the country's largest banks. 
 Richard M. Kovacevich, the chairman of Wells Fargo, said the merger was ''simply an incredible fit that will carry on Wachovia's proud tradition of being one of the very best financial institutions in the world.'' 
 Two weeks ago, Wachovia's battered shares slumped so much that the F.D.I.C. brokered a deal on Sept. 29 for Citigroup to buy some of the bank for $1 a share. The move allowed Wachovia to open its doors that Monday.
 But late Thursday, Wells Fargo -- which had dropped out of talks with Wachovia earlier in the week -- came back with an all-stock offer then worth $15 billion to buy all of Wachovia without government support. 
 The $60 billion claim by Citigroup is more than five times the $11 billion jury verdict in a case brought by Pennzoil against Texaco for interrupting a planned transaction with Getty Oil in the 1980s. Lawyers said that Citigroup had a valid claim against Wachovia because it relied on Wachovia's promise not to negotiate with other companies and because it extended loans to Wachovia, keeping it alive. 
 But, lawyers said, Citigroup's case will not be easy to make. Wachovia and its board have strong defenses of their actions. Corporations have obligations to protect the interests of investors, and for Wachovia to ignore a higher bid for the company would arguably have been a breach of those duties.
 Then there is the issue of the bailout legislation signed into law last week by President Bush. A provision in the legislation appears to invalidate bank acquisitions ''in connection with any transaction'' in which the F.D.I.C. uses its authority. It is not clear what that ''in connection with'' language means: Citigroup has argued that it means that the deal between Wachovia and Wells Fargo was prohibited, while Wachovia is likely to argue that the bailout provision invalidated its agreement with Citigroup. 
 In other words, there is plenty to keep a horde of lawyers busy for years. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Citigroup, the parent of Citibank, plans to seek damages.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MERGERS (90%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (98%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (67%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (98%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); VIKRAM PANDIT (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



397 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Bicycle Commuter Tax Credit Is a Bittersweet Victory for Measure's Backer

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore. 

 BODY:
People who pedal to work each day have long sought a kind of commuter equality: a federal tax break for biking similar to those given for parking or riding public transit. Last week, after years of rejection, the credit suddenly became law. 
 Scheduled to take effect in January, the credit was among a range of energy and tax provisions quickly added to the $700 billion financial rescue. 
 Yet here in the district of the congressman who first pushed for the bicycle bill, Representative Earl Blumenauer, a Democrat who wears a bicycle lapel pin and founded the Congressional Bike Caucus, no party is being planned.
 ''Who wants to celebrate?'' said Jonathan Maus, who edits a blog that promotes cycling here in Portland. ''Because I think a lot of people agree with how Blumenauer voted.''
 Even with his cycling tax credit attached to the financial rescue bill, Mr. Blumenauer voted against the measure. After all, thousands of constituents had contacted his office to oppose the $700 billion rescue bill and he was frustrated that it did not do more to help individual homeowners, according to an aide. 
 ''He was looking at the big picture, the state of the economy,'' said Lucia Graves, a spokeswoman for the congressman. ''If anything it was a diversion,'' she said of the cycling tax credit. ''It's great that it was on there, but it was not the point.''
 Come January, bike commuters will receive a monthly credit of up to $20 that can be spent on maintaining, repairing or buying bicycles. 
 Employers, many of whom have long provided tax-free parking and transit benefits, will establish how they administer the cycling tax credit, Ms. Graves said. Employers will be able to deduct the credit from their corporate taxes.
 ''The idea was to level the playing field for cyclists,'' she said.
 Portland has a higher percentage of people who bike to work than any other American city, according to the Census Bureau. 
 In the past year, bicycle traffic on the main bridges over the Willamette River into downtown rose to about 18,000 from about 14,000 last year, according to Mr. Maus. 
 Nationwide, many bike enthusiasts have praised the new tax credit, even some frustrated that it was part of the rescue bill. 
 ''It's a totally weird, ironic political situation,'' Mr. Maus said. ''It's a pretty small victory. But this gives a lot of people around the country the ability to walk into their human resources office or their manager's office and ask for the credit. It helps move the conversation forward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Earl Blumenauer founded the Congressional Bike Caucus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CYCLING (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); POLITICS (75%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (71%); HUMAN RESOURCES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); CITIES (61%); CENSUS (50%)

PERSON: EARL BLUMENAUER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%) OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



398 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE TV WATCH 'THE STARTER WIFE''; 'THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF ATLANTA'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Shop as if There's No Tomorrow

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
Credit markets are paralyzed, banks worldwide are being nationalized, even Beverly Hills mansions are in foreclosure, and fashion gurus are declaring ''frugality chic'' the new conspicuous consumption. 
 Wealth, at the moment, is either at risk or suspect. So this may not be the most propitious time to celebrate shoppers who describe Christian Louboutin boots as ''only $1,200'' and women who want birthday cakes in the shape of Louis Vuitton handbags. Yet two of television's most unabashed paeans to vulgar wealth and compulsive spending are back: ''The Starter Wife,'' a new USA series starring Debra Messing as a fictional housewife of Hollywood (based on the hit 2007 mini-series), and the Bravo reality show ''The Real Housewives of Atlanta,'' the third installment of a franchise that began with ''The Real Housewives of Orange County.'' 
 One is make-believe, the other traffics in you-must-be-joking disbelief. But both shows are comedies that mix satire and giddy consumer voyeurism. ''The Starter Wife'' may have the trickiest path to navigate, since it asks viewers to laugh with, not at, a woman who is rich, just not rich enough. The mini-series chronicled the fall from grace of a discarded Hollywood wife, Molly Kagan (Ms. Messing), and focused on the slights and humiliations. (She loses her gym membership and her spot in the A-List ''Mommy and Me'' class). 
 Now, Molly is divorced and preoccupied with reviving her career, or as she puts it, ''making ends meet.'' She joins a writing class, but when she shows her tell-all diary to her handsome writing instructor, Zach McNeill (Hart Bochner), it ends up in the hands of a gossip Web site, and the unsavory secrets of her closest former friends spill out all over Hollywood. 
 Molly's social predicaments are amusing, but her financial tribulations -- she has to forgo the $1,200 boots; she donates time instead of money to fund-raisers for her daughter's private school -- may ring a little hollow, since California has community property divorce laws. For some reason, Molly's sense of deprivation and economic sacrifice is not part of the joke; instead, viewers are supposed to take her misfortunes at face value. 
 Ms. Messing has the appeal and comedic skills to make Molly likable, despite the writers' profligate piling on of virtue. (She's a perfect mother and loyal friend and even comes to the aid of her cad ex-husband when his film looks like a flop.) 
 The show floats mostly on lighthearted mockery of Hollywood, with lots of knowing references to movies and movie stars. Molly describes one film actor as ''Wesley Snipes on steroids, minus the tax evasion.'' As she is examining the stiletto-heeled Louboutin boots, her sardonic best friend, Joan (Judy Davis), says, ''Suri Cruise has a pair of these.'' The shopping scenes look out-of-date and a touch pathetic, but celebrity gossip is recession-proof.
 Shopping is the main occupation of all five heroines of ''Real Housewives,'' and it seems that Atlanta has plenty of Louis Vuitton and Versace to go around -- though for a very special occasion, the fashion stylist has a Zac Posen purse flown in from New York. 
 Their houses are vast, their closets brimming, and much of the day is spent giving orders to the staff, or, in the case of DeShawn Snow, whose husband plays for the Cleveland Cavaliers, instructing her estate manager on what orders to give the staff.
 The Atlanta housewives are all friends, but not always friendly. They have everything, but their lives and even their vast living rooms seem strangely empty. The show has proven appeal, and it lies in the clash between these women's vanity and their all-too-obvious vulnerabilities. 
 This season, the setting has shifted to Atlanta and its new guard, the black elite: three of the five housewives are African-American; one is part Asian, part black; and Kim Zolciak, a busty blonde who boasts a sugar daddy boyfriend identified only as Big Poppa, describes herself as ''a black woman trapped in a white woman's body.'' (In the first episode she straps her struggling physique into a brand-new $68,000 Cadillac Escalade paid for by Big Poppa.)
 Sheree Whitfield is the designated mean girl of the group, a socialite and divorcee who says her goal is to ''maintain the same lifestyle, if not better.'' She throws herself a lavish birthday party (including the Vuitton birthday cake) and somehow leaves one of her friends off of the guest list, unleashing the kind of anger, hurt feelings and social realignments that are the other driving force behind this kind of reality show, besides shopping.
 Some of the husbands are professional athletes in the twilight of their careers, and at least one is a real estate developer, which brings a ''Last Days of Pompeii'' poignancy to all the frivolity and excess.
 Filmed before the mortgage crisis erupted, ''The Real Housewives of Atlanta'' may turn out to be the best choice for a time capsule of the Bling Decade. The wealth of these real housewives was never all that enviable, and now it looks as if it might not be viable.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Versace, yes, but no sign of a market drop: DeShawn Snow, left, and Lisa Wu Hartwell in ''The Real Housewives of Atlanta.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN AMIS/BRAVO)
 Satire and giddy consumer voyeurism: Chris Diamantopoulos, Debra Messing, center, and Judy Davis in ''The Starter Wife.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ISABELLA VOSMIKOVA/USA NETWORK)(pg. C26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (89%); FILM (88%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (79%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FAMILY LAW (75%); COMMUNITY PROPERTY (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); WRITERS (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (69%); CREATIVE WRITING (69%); FUNDRAISING (65%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (72%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (72%); LVMH (BIT) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (72%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



399 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Iceland, in Financial Collapse, Is Likely to Turn to the I.M.F.

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

DATELINE: REYKJAVIK, Iceland 

 BODY:
Iceland's financial system collapsed Thursday, and analysts said it was probably only a matter of time before the country would have to turn to the International Monetary Fund for help.
 Such a move, which would make this small island nation the first sovereign state to fall victim to the credit squeeze that began last year, would require it to accept harsh measures to restore fiscal and monetary stability. 
 Iceland has tried desperately to avoid such a step. But the odds against it grew worse on Thursday when the government took over the last of three major banks and shut down the stock exchange. 
 Trading in the Icelandic krona ceased, with foreign banks no longer willing to take the currency -- even at what seemed like bargain rates.
 Adding to Iceland's sense of isolation, a diplomatic dispute with Britain over money stranded in the failed banks deepened as the British government invoked antiterrorism laws in an effort to get the money.
 ''Iceland is bankrupt,'' said Arsaell Valfells, a professor at the University of Iceland. ''The Icelandic krona is history. The only sensible option is for the I.M.F. to come and rescue us.''
 Prime Minister Geir Haarde, who had warned this week of the threat of ''national bankruptcy,'' declined to say Thursday whether Iceland was seeking a rescue package from the International Monetary Fund.
 ''We will certainly keep this option open, but we have not yet made a decision,'' he said at a news conference here.
 A fact-finding team from the International Monetary Fund has been in Reykjavik all week, and Mr. Haarde said Thursday that the finance minister, Arni Mathiesen, was on his way to Washington for the annual meeting of the monetary fund and the World Bank this weekend.
 The fund's managing director, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, said in Washington that he had activated an emergency financing system, last used during the Asian financial crisis of the 1990s, intended to expedite loans to countries in crisis. 
 ''We are ready to answer any demand by countries facing problems,'' he said. He did not mention Iceland by name.
 Iceland has already approached Russia about the possibility of a 4 billion euro loan to help see it through the crisis, but Mr. Haarde said no agreement had been reached. 
 The I.M.F.'s intervention in Iceland would underline the extraordinary reversal in the country's fortunes after a decade-long, debt-fueled binge by the country's banks, businesses and some citizens. The banks, while avoiding the troubled mortgage securities that have humbled Wall Street, expanded aggressively at home and abroad. When credit tightened and the krona fell this year, they were unable to finance their debts, many of which are denominated in foreign currencies. 
 In these circumstances, going to the monetary fund ''is probably the only thing Iceland can do,'' said Richard Portes, an economist at London Business School who has studied the country's financial problems.
 On Thursday, the government seized Kaupthing Bank, the country's largest lender, effectively completing the nationalization of the banking system after the earlier takeover of two other banks, Glitnir and Landsbanki. 
 The stock exchange will remain closed until Monday, the government said.
 Mr. Haarde acknowledged that international trading in the currency had essentially ended. Bloomberg News cited traders at Nordea Bank as saying the last quoted value of the krona had been 340 to the euro -- less than half what the Icelandic currency was worth at the start of the week.
 Mr. Haarde said Thursday the central bank of Iceland had set up a special system to handle currency transactions, so that Icelandic companies could conduct international business.
 ''There are hiccups in the foreign exchange market,'' he said. ''If not today, then tomorrow, there will be more trading in the currency.''
 Sounding surprisingly unworried for the leader of a country facing economic and financial disaster, he said, ''We are gradually moving through this crisis.'' He added, ''There are still a few issues to resolve, but that is the nature of these kinds of things.''
 Analysts say the problems with the krona have been at the core of the government's inability to control the crisis. Without a viable currency, it is not possible to support the banks, which have done the bulk of their business in foreign markets. There is also no way to bring down inflation or interest rates, both of which were already in double digits before the crisis intensified in recent days.
 Mr. Valfells and Mr. Portes said that once the situation was stabilized, presumably with help from the I.M.F., the best course would be for Iceland to give up on the krona entirely and to adopt the euro. 
 How could Iceland, which is not even a member of the European Union, adopt the single currency? 
 One option would be to simply peg the Icelandic currency to the euro. In that case, Iceland would also hand over control of monetary policy, including the setting of interest rates, to the European Central Bank.
 But fixing the currency to the euro could be difficult for Iceland, given that its central bank probably lacks the reserves to defend such a level if the currency were to come under renewed attack.
 That leaves another option: applying to join the European Union and adopting the euro. Because Iceland is already part of the European Economic Area, a looser trading group, it abides by many European Union rules. 
 Still, such a move would be politically challenging. The conservative Independence Party, headed by the prime minister, has been firmly against it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The headquarters in Reykjavik of Kaupthing Bank, Iceland's largest lender. The country took control of the bank Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB STRONG/REUTERS)
 Iceland's prime minister, Geir Haarde, left, and the commerce and banking minister, Bjorgvin Sigurdsson on Thursday. Iceland announced it would abandon efforts to support its currency.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER MORIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); COUNTERTERRORISM (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (93%) ICELAND (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008



400 of 1307 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2363 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

 BODY:
JAZZ
 Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.
 AACM AT THE KITCHEN (Saturday) The Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians, established in Chicago more than 40 years ago, has been celebrating the publication of an important book by George Lewis, ''A Power Stronger Than Itself: The AACM and American Experimental Music'' (University of Chicago). This concert shines a spotlight on the organization's new guard, including the flutist Nicole Mitchell and the alto saxophonist Matana Roberts. A pre-show panel at 5 p.m. will feature both artists, along with Mr. Lewis and others. At 8 p.m., the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org; $10. (Nate Chinen) 
 ALL NITE SOUL (Sunday) The annual celebration of the jazz ministry at St. Peter's Church doubles this year as a tribute to the trombonist Benny Powell and the pianist Jane Jarvis. Both will appear at a marathon concert that also includes veterans like the pianist Billy Taylor, the tenor saxophonist Frank Wess and the trumpeter Joe Wilder, as well as younger charges like the saxophonist John Ellis and the composer-bandleader Darcy James Argue. The program begins at 7 p.m.; at 5, the promising young saxophonist Tia Fuller will perform an opening set with her band. St. Peter's Church, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, Manhattan, (212) 9350-2200, saintpeters.org/jazz; donation, $20. (Chinen)
 COUNT BASIE ORCHESTRA WITH LEDISI (Tuesday through Thursday) This big-band institution, under the leadership of the bass trombonist Bill Hughes, welcomes an odd interloper here: Ledisi, an R&B singer with the faintest stylistic connection to Ella Fitzgerald. (Through Oct. 19.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
 PETER BERNSTEIN-KURT ROSENWINKEL QUARTET (Wednesday and Thursday) Peter Bernstein and Kurt Rosenwinkel are both postmodern jazz guitarists, but their styles are about as different as granite and frosted glass. Because of their shared influences and common sensitivities, this meeting holds some promise; it also doesn't hurt matters that the rhythm section consists of Eric Revis on bass and Jason Brown on drums. (Through Oct. 18.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30 and $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
 ALEX BLAKE QUARTET (Friday) The intensely rhythmic style of the bassist Alex Blake has worked well in African-inspired jazz settings, notably with the venerable pianist Randy Weston. Here Mr. Blake leads a quartet at the relocated and newly reopened Puppet's Jazz Bar. At 9 and 10:30 p.m. and midnight, Puppet's Jazz Bar, 481 Fifth Avenue, between 11th and 12th Streets, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 499-2622, puppetsjazz.com; cover, $12, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)
 STEVE CARDENAS TRIO (Tuesday) Steve Cardenas, a modern-minded guitarist comfortable with the blues, leads a rugged trio with the bassist Ben Allison and the drummer Rudy Royston. At 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (347) 422-0248, barbesbrooklyn.com; suggested cover, $10. (Chinen)
 BILL CHARLAP TRIO (Friday through Sunday, Tuesday through Thursday) Every serious jazz pianist considers making a ''Live at the Village Vanguard'' album; Bill Charlap released his on Blue Note last year. It's a good chronicle of his crisp trio, with the bassist Peter Washington and the drummer Kenny Washington (who are not related), though one would get a clearer picture in person during this two-week run. (Through Oct. 19.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
 JOHN ESCREET TRIO (Tuesday) John Escreet is a young British pianist, now based in New York, whose music tends toward a busy brightness. Drawing from a forthcoming album on the Posi-Tone label, he leads a trio with Orlando Le Fleming on bass and Rodney Green on drums. At 10:30 p.m. and midnight, Cachaca, 35 West Eighth Street, West Village, (212) 388-9099, cachacajazz.com; cover, $10, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
 LOUIS HAYES QUARTET (Thursday) The hard-bop drummer Louis Hayes, sharply propulsive in his 70s, commands a group with Craig Handy on saxophones, Julio Alvarez on piano and Santi DeBriano on bass. (Through Oct. 18.) At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $28. (Chinen)
 FRED HO AND THE AFRO ASIAN MUSIC ENSEMBLE (Friday) For more than 25 years the Afro Asian Music Ensemble -- led by the baritone saxophonist, composer and conceptualist Fred Ho -- has chased a purposeful and often political ideal of cross-cultural exploration. At 9 p.m., BAMcafe, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; no cover. (Chinen)
 JAZZ AND ITS AFRICAN ELEMENTS (Saturday) This concert, presented by the Central Brooklyn Jazz Consortium, features the pianist Randy Weston, with his fine ensemble African Rhythms; the singer Pauline Jean; and True Theory, an R&B-steeped group of young bloods. From 3 to 7 p.m., Jazz 966, 966 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 569-1869, centralbrooklynjazzconsortium.org; $20 in advance, $25 at the door.
 (Chinen)JAZZ IS MY PASSPORT (Thursday) The premise is perhaps a bit strained; for a dose of jazz internationalism, you might do just as well to trawl the New York club scene on any given night. But the talent assembled is legitimate, from the expatriate Brazilian jazz group Trio da Paz to the piano prodigy Eldar (from Kyrgyzstan), the guitarist Roni Ben-Hur (Israel) and the vibraphonist Warren Chiasson (Canada). At 8 p.m., Tribeca Performing Arts Center, 199 Chambers Street, near Greenwich Street, (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org; $35, students $32.50. (Chinen)
 KNEEBODY (Tuesday) Funk, rock and hip-hop knock about with equal force in the music of this collective, which somehow both is and isn't an update of a 1970s-vintage fusion band. Here the group focuses on music by its trumpeter, Shane Endsley, and welcomes a brightly blustery guest soloist, the trombonist Josh Roseman. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)
 TONY MALABY QUARTET (Friday and Saturday) Tony Malaby, a tenor saxophonist equally capable of focused tension and wild abandon, enlists experienced partners in this quartet: the trumpeter Ralph Alessi, the bassist John Hebert and the drummer Gerald Cleaver. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
 BEN MONDER (Wednesday) In the hands of Mr. Monder, the electric guitar is a coloristic instrument first and foremost. For his part in the Stochastic Brooklyn series at Barbes, he features his coolly convoluted pieces for a trio with Niels Ryde on bass and Anders Mogensen on drums. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (347) 422-0248, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)
 MONK AT 91 PIANO MARATHON (Friday) On what would have been his 91st birthday, Thelonious Monk is honored by nearly 20 pianists of divergent tastes. Among them are the extravagantly experienced Randy Weston and George Cables; the percussive but slippery Luis Perdomo and Jean-Michel Pilc; and the hyperarticulate Geri Allen, Frank Kimbrough and Ted Rosenthal. From 5 to 9 p.m., Winter Garden, World Financial Center, West Street, south of Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505, worldfinancialcenter.com; free. (Chinen)
 DAVY MOONEY QUARTET (Sunday) ''Astoriano'' (Late Set), released last year, documents a recent New York residency by the smart young New Orleans guitarist Davy Mooney. These days Mr. Mooney is back home, but he makes the occasional jaunt north for gigs like this one, with Tim Collins on vibraphone, Mark Anderson on bass and Simon Lott on drums. At 6 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; no cover, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)
 GREG OSBY PRESENTS INNER CIRCLE MUSIC (Tuesday through Thursday) Since decamping from the Blue Note roster, the alto saxophonist Greg Osby has been busy building something of his own. Inner Circle is his new label, and here he showcases its young roster: on Tuesday, the tenor saxophonists Meilana Gillard (7:30 p.m.) and Jacob Yoffee (9:30); on Wednesday, the vibraphonist Mike Pinto (7:30) and the saxophonist Logan Richardson (9:30); and on Thursday, the vocalist Sara Serpa (7:30). Wrapping up is Mr. Osby himself, leading a bright young band he calls 9 Levels, with Mr. Pinto and Ms. Serpa on board. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $20. 
 (Chinen)
 EDDIE PALMIERI ORCHESTRA/THE LATIN GIANTS OF JAZZ (Saturday) The indomitable pianist and salsa bandleader Eddie Palmieri anchors this powerful bill with his band, featuring as a guest the great conga specialist Giovanni Hidalgo. Sharing the spotlight are the Latin Giants of Jazz, led by the percussionists Johnny Rodriguez and Jose Madera and modeled after its predecessor, the Tito Puente Orchestra. At 8 p.m., Lehman Center for the Performing Arts, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, Bronx, (718) 960-8833, lehmancenter.org; $35 to $50. 
 (Chinen)
 AARON PARKS, BEN STREET, MARCUS GILMORE (Saturday) Mr. Parks is a shrewd and sometimes efflorescent pianist who recently released his Blue Note debut; Mr. Street, a bassist, and Mr. Gilmore, a drummer, are two of the standout rhythm-section players of the current era. Their rapport as a trio seems a sure bet; their repertory is more of an open question. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15, $10 for members. (Chinen)
 NICHOLAS PAYTON QUINTET (Tuesday through Thursday) The trumpeter Nicholas Payton has a new album, ''Into the Blue'' (Nonesuch), that features this flexible quintet, and neatly synthesizes his dual allegiance to post-bop and in-the-pocket groove. (Through Oct. 19) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)
 ERIC REED'S TRIBUTE TO MONK (Friday and Saturday) Sharp sophistication is a hallmark of Eric Reed's piano playing, whatever the parameters. He has a longstanding attraction to the music of Thelonious Monk, one reason to anticipate this run with a quartet featuring Seamus Blake on tenor saxophone. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $28. (Chinen)
 KURT ROSENWINKEL, SAM YAHEL, ANTONIO SANCHEZ (Monday) This one-time meeting, a benefit for the education and advocacy organization JazzReach, capitalizes on the overlapping sensibilities of three top-shelf modernists: Mr. Rosenwinkel, an ethereal guitarist; Mr. Yahel, a resourceful keyboardist; and Mr. Sanchez, a subtle and slippery drummer. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592 bluenote.net; cover (first set): $45 at tables, $20 at the bar; (second set): $35 at tables, $15 at the bar. (Chinen)
 SEARCH AND RESTORE: JAZZ AT THE KNIT (Friday) This semiregular series at the soon-to-be-relocated Knitting Factory features two groove-oriented bands affiliated with the guitarist Charlie Hunter. One is led by Erik Deutsch, a keyboardist who has worked with Mr. Hunter; the other, led by the vibraphonist Tim Collins, will feature Mr. Hunter as a guest, as on the recent album ''Fade'' (Ropeadope). At 8 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3132, searchandrestore.com; cover, $13. (Chinen)
 TODD SICKAFOOSE (Friday) As a bassist Mr. Sickafoose builds grooves from the ground up, but that's no impediment to the buoyancy of his music. ''Tiny Resistors'' (Cryptogramophone), his fine new album, features a number of tunes in which horn parts and guitar lines swirl around a calmly asymmetrical pulse. He reprises them here in a group with John Ellis on saxophones, Josh Roseman on trombone, Mike Gamble on guitar and Rudy Royston on drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; suggested cover, $5. (Chinen)
 NEAL SMITH QUARTET (Friday and Saturday) Neal Smith, a drummer with stout respect for the jazz tradition, convenes a band with Jimmy Greene and Mark Gross on saxophones, Curtis Taylor on trumpet, Miki Hayama on piano and Ugonna Okegwo on bass. At 10:30 p.m. and midnight, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, smallsjazzclub.com; cover, $20. (Chinen)
 E. J. STRICKLAND QUINTET (Monday) While better known as a drummer than a bandleader, E. J. Strickland is beginning to make an impact with his own groups, which usually feature his twin brother, the tenor and soprano saxophonist Marcus Strickland. This one also includes Jaleel Shaw on alto saxophone, Luis Perdomo on Fender Rhodes piano and Ben Williams on bass. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)
 LEW TABACKIN TRIO (Friday and Saturday) A garrulous tenor saxophonist and a highly lyrical flutist, Lew Tabackin plays at his loosest when backed by only a bassist and a drummer, as he is here. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $25, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)
 STEVE WILSON QUARTET (Thursday) The saxophonist Steve Wilson combines economy and modernity in his playing and engages deeply with his supporting cast, which consists here of the pianist Orrin Evans, the bassist Ugonna Okegwo and the drummer Bill Stewart. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15, $10 for members. (Chinen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (91%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (74%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008

 
