

1 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: A Detroit District Thrives By Building on the Past

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
DETROIT -- In sharp contrast to the rest of the Detroit metropolitan area, an area known as Midtown just north of the central business district has been holding its own in the recession.
Much of the success of Midtown -- as it was branded a decade ago -- is a result of the strength of institutions like Wayne State University, the Detroit Medical Center, the Henry Ford Hospital and the Detroit Institute of Arts, all of which contribute students and employees as well as residents.
Another component of Midtown's success is that its developers are refurbishing older buildings, using tax credits and public financing, as much as they are building from scratch. 
''For a long time, there was a big effort to tear things down in Detroit,'' said Michael Poris, a principal of the architecture firm McIntosh Poris Associates, which is restoring a former vaudeville house in Midtown for multiple uses. ''But if we have all these great historic buildings here, why not take the historic tax credits and reuse them? Plus it's a greener, more sustainable form of development.''
According to the CoStar Group, a real estate information company in Bethesda, Md., the vacancy rate for office space in Midtown -- including an adjacent area called New Center, where the former headquarters of General Motors now houses state offices -- stood at 8.2 percent in the second quarter of this year.
The vacancy rate in Detroit's central business district, which at 24.5 million square feet has 3.5 times the space of Midtown, was 19.5 percent in the second quarter of 2010.
In a boon for Midtown, the Detroit Medical Center announced in June that it had been acquired by Vanguard Health Systems, a unit of the private equity giant Blackstone Group, which said it would invest $850 million over five years to expand and upgrade the medical center's facilities.
''We really have lost almost no businesses during the recession,'' said Susan Mosey, the president of the University Cultural Center Association, an organization formed by several Midtown institutions that guides development in the area. ''That isn't to say that businesses haven't had to reduce costs and become more efficient, but the neighborhood's remained pretty stable.''
The housing market is thriving too, Ms. Mosey said. Many obsolete buildings in Midtown have been converted to rental housing in recent years, and the rental market has been strong. An association study found that 92 percent of the 4,295 rental units in the area were occupied last spring.
A handful of condominium projects begun right before the national housing market collapsed had to shift gears and become rental apartments. Those were leased quickly, Ms. Mosey said.
''There's one developer who converted his building to medical office, and he's fully leased,'' she said. ''There is a demand here for medical office use and uses related to the university.''
The project where Mr. Poris is restoring the former vaudeville house, the 1912 Garden Theater, includes a new three-story office building. The top two floors have been leased by the Wayne State Physicians Group, he said.
That development, which is reviving an entire block along the area's main commercial artery, Woodward Avenue, includes construction of a 302-space parking garage and restoration of the two-story Blue Moon building, built in 1886, for office and restaurant space. After the Garden Theater is restored into a music hall and commercial space, 60 apartments will be built, Mr. Poris said.
Much of the $45 million development was financed with historic preservation tax credits, along with brownfield tax credits for re-using an obsolete building, Mr. Poris said.
''If you can fund 40 percent of a project with tax credits, it's a big deal,'' Mr. Poris said. ''And the banks are looking for investments, so the banks will buy the tax credits, or investors will buy the tax credits. There's a market for them.''
In another example, the long-vacant Argonaut building, the 760,000-square-foot Art Deco building that once housed vehicle design offices for General Motors, was restored in 2008 for $140 million, about half of which was financed by tax credits, said a co-developer, Eric B. Larson, the president and chief executive of Larson Realty Group. In September 2009, the College for Creative Studies, as well as an 880-student charter school, moved into the building, now called the A. Alfred Taubman Center for Design Education.
Preservationists had the foresight to get much of Midtown designated as historic in the 1990s, thus ensuring they would be eligible for tax credits, said Diane Van Buren, vice president of sustainable planning at Zachary & Associates, a property development and development consulting group.
Zachary & Associates, with several partners, is in the process of creating an area within Midtown called the Sugar Hill Arts District, in tribute to the traveling black jazz musicians who once played in clubs and stayed in stately homes in the neighborhood, Ms. Van Buren said.
Much of the district was destroyed in the urban renewal movement in the mid-20th century that displaced many African-American neighborhoods in Detroit and elsewhere, she said.
Several buildings and sites in Sugar Hill are being redeveloped, including 71 East Garfield Street -- the former site of a hotel that was destroyed by fire -- which has undergone a $6 million renovation into 22 live-work spaces for artists and eight commercial spaces.
Nearby, a historic 19th-century nurses' home, Newberry Hall, is being redeveloped into 28 rental apartments. Both projects are stressing sustainability by using solar power, geothermal systems and recycled building materials, Ms. Van Buren said.
Despite a lack of conventional financing from lending institutions for redevelopment, local developers have faith in the Midtown market and will soldier on, using tax credits, grants and public financing where possible, said Ernest Zachary, the president of Zachary & Associates.
''I have no question that if you build something here, people will move in,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Poris, an architect who is working on a redevelopment along Woodward Avenue in Midtown Detroit, shows where outdoor seating will be in an area that will include offices, a music hall and commercial space and, eventually, 60 apartments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (71%); PROPERTY LEASES (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); VANGUARD HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (53%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%); VHS (NYSE) (53%); BX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (53%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (53%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (53%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



2 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: New York Is Trying Again to Tax Indians' Cigarette Sales

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS; Tim Stelloh and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The last time New York State tried to collect cigarette taxes on Indian lands, 13 years ago, protesters blocked highways upstate and clashed with State Police troopers, who had surrounded reservations to keep cigarettes and other taxable goods from flowing in. After a standoff that dragged on for days, the state relented and scrapped its plan.
On Wednesday, the state will try again to impose taxes on cigarettes sold in Indian stores, but this time it hopes to avoid any violence. Last week, leaders of the Seneca Nation, which led the protests 13 years ago, vowed at a meeting with law enforcement officials to keep their fighting confined to the courts. 
''We take them at their word, and we're hoping for the best,'' Darryl Braley, a captain in the Chautauqua County Sheriff's Office, said in an interview.
The state's plan was dealt a partial setback on Tuesday, when a federal judge in Buffalo temporarily stopped the state from taxing the sales of cigarettes to non-Indians by two of New York's largest tribes, the Seneca and Cayuga Nations. The tribes had argued that the state's tax policy violated their sovereign rights and would significantly damage their economies.
The taxes would sharply increase the price paid for cigarettes bought in Indian stores and could have a huge impact on the economies of some tribes, like the Shinnecock Nation in Southampton, which relies heavily on cigarette sales for its support.
Nicky Banks, a Shinnecock who owns the Eagle Feather Smoke Shop, said that a pack of Marlboros, which she was selling for $5.70 on Tuesday, could cost more than $10 by Wednesday. The state will charge 61 cents in sales taxes and $4.35 in excise taxes on each pack of cigarettes sold.
''We fought so hard for this land, and what little we have is being ripped from us,'' said Ms. Banks, 36, who opened her shop 10 years ago. ''We can't even focus on providing for our family because we're so busy fighting government.''
The decision to impose taxes on cigarettes sold by Indians was driven in part by the state's own financial straits. Gov. David A. Paterson said the taxes would raise about $200 million.
''We are not interfering with the sovereignty of any Indian nations,'' Mr. Paterson told reporters at an unrelated event in Harlem. ''We are just making changes to the way we distribute cigarettes in our state.''
The state's plan does make exceptions for cigarettes sold to tribal members, estimating, based on the population of an Indian reservation, what portion of the sales are made to them. Taxes are charged on the remaining packs, on the assumption that they are bought by customers who are not Indians.
Wholesalers will have to buy state tax stamps and affix them to cigarette packs sold to Indian stores, as they already do to packs of cigarettes sold to other retailers.
Until now, wholesalers have been required to buy the stamps only for cigarette packs sold to non-Indian retailers.
Because tribes are considered sovereign nations, New York State has not collected taxes from Indian tribes, allowing them to sell cigarettes for significantly lower prices than non-Indian competitors.
As cigarette taxes increased over time, cigarette sales boomed in Indian reservations, becoming the backbone of the economies of some tribes.
Mr. Paterson has repeatedly said that the state's main goal is not to harm the tribes or to collect more revenue, but rather to discourage people from smoking and as a result drive down the state's health care costs.
Smokers like Bill Durand, who drove from nearby Hampton Bays to the Shinnecock reservation in Southampton to buy cigarettes on Tuesday, said the state was going too far. Mr. Durand, 48, is already contemplating other options.
''I'll start chewing gum or something,'' he said.
The court order on Tuesday, by Chief Judge Richard J. Arcara in United States District Court in Buffalo, delays the collection of state taxes on cigarettes sold by Seneca and Cayuga Indians at least until Thursday, when a hearing has been scheduled.
Barry E. Snyder Sr., president of the Seneca Nation, said the order ''sets the stage for an orderly and thoughtful legal review of what we believe is an illegal, ill-conceived attempt by New York State to use the Seneca Nation and other Indian nations located within its boundaries as piggy banks to balance the state budget.''
Jessica Bassett, a spokeswoman for Mr. Paterson, said, however, that the state was standing on solid legal ground and that it would ultimately prevail.
Mr. Paterson warned last week that the tax plan could provoke a violent response by some Indians, but this week he stressed the need to ensure the plan was carried out in an orderly fashion.
At her smoke shop, Ms. Banks said there was a rush of sales on Tuesday in anticipation of the steep price increase. The prospect of the tax is unsettling because the shop is her family's main source of income, she said.
''A lot of our customers commute out here, but I don't think they'd continue coming to us,'' she said. ''We'd lose a lot of business, and it would affect us greatly.''
But to retailers who sell cigarettes outside Indian reservations, the taxes are a long-awaited equalizer. A group of them, led by James Calvin, president of the New York Association of Convenience Stores, are scheduled to gather in Albany on Wednesday to encourage Mr. Paterson to ensure the taxes are being collected.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicky Banks, a Shinnecock who sells cigarettes through a window at her shop in Southampton, N.Y., fears the effect of a state tax on her sales to non-Indians. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY KMONICEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); SHERIFFS (78%); TOBACCO STORES (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); SALES TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); JUDGES (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); PRICE CHANGES (65%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



3 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Strong Exports Lift Agriculture, A Bright Spot in the Economy

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Even as the broader economy falters amid signs of a weakening recovery, the nation's agriculture sector is going strong, bolstered in part by a surge in exports, according to federal estimates of farm trade and income released on Tuesday.
The estimates confirm what economists have been saying for months: agriculture, which was generally not hit as hard by the recession as many other segments of the economy, remains a small bright spot going forward. 
''We're just having a robust rebound in the agricultural sector and promises of more growth,'' Jason R. Henderson, vice president and economist at the Omaha branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, said in a recent interview.
The estimates show that American farmers will ship $107.5 billion in agricultural products abroad in the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30. That is the second-highest amount ever, behind the record $115.3 billion in exports logged in 2008, when commodity prices soared as the global demand for agricultural products was helped by fast-growing economies in the developing world.
Next year, exports are expected to total $113 billion. In releasing the data, Tom Vilsack, the secretary of agriculture, said exports of grains and meats were leading the rebound. He called the new estimates ''very encouraging.''
The export growth is propelled by higher prices for many products, including wheat, whose prices have skyrocketed as drought and punishing heat decimated crops in Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan. Exports to Asia have been particularly strong, and China is forecast to surpass Mexico next year to become the second-largest foreign buyer of American farm products. Canada is the No. 1 export market.
Wheat exports this year are estimated at $6 billion, about the same as last year, as much of this year's crop had already been sold when prices started to rise. But wheat exports for the fiscal year 2011 are expected to rise to $8 billion, because of higher prices and increased production.
Prices for other grains have risen, too, encouraging farmers.
''The better the demand, the higher the price, and it's going to put another 10, 15, possibly 20 cents in the price of a bushel of corn,'' said Bill Horan, a corn farmer in Iowa. Corn is about $4 a bushel, which is about 50 cents higher than last year. ''It means my wife can go out and buy a new sofa, and I can put new tires on the pickup.''
Prices have also risen significantly for cotton, meat and dairy products. Cotton exports are expected to reach $6 billion next year, up from $4.8 billion this year and $3.5 billion last year, on the strength of a large crop here and tight worldwide supplies that have lifted prices.
Despite such increases, prices for most agricultural commodities remain well short of the record levels of 2008. And the price paid to farmers is only a small portion of the end cost of most foods. So economists predict that the prices consumers pay in the supermarket will rise only moderately this year.
Other economic measures were also promising for the farm sector, which accounts for a small fraction of the overall economy but has a strong impact on the well-being of many rural areas, and a ripple effect for suppliers and other related industries.
Total net farm cash income for the current calendar year was estimated at $85 billion, a 23 percent increase from last year and well above the 10-year average of $72 billion.
About 75 percent of farm production occurs on just 271,000 farms, or 12 percent of the total farms in the country. Those large commercial farms were forecast to average $220,000 in net cash income this year, a 22 percent rise from a year ago.
When all farms are taken into account, average farm household income is expected to be $81,670 this year, a nearly 6 percent increase from last year.
Household income for many who live on farms comes largely from off-farm jobs and other sources, like investments. This year, on average, 11 percent of the household income for farm families was predicted to come from agriculture.
Income from both farm and nonfarm sources is expected to rise this year, indicating an overall improvement in the rural economy, officials said.
Joseph Glauber, the agriculture department's chief economist, said that a strong rebound in livestock and dairy prices had been a major factor in the farm recovery.
Dairy producers were hurt badly in the recession by high costs and low prices, which have recently begun to recover. Cattle and hog producers also struggled with low prices, caused by overproduction. But cattle and hog producers have managed to cut the size of their herds, pushing prices back up at the same time that international demand recovers, Mr. Glauber said.
''Exports are kind of driving our market,'' said Jason Anderson, who operates a cattle feedlot in Holbrook, Neb. ''Demand is pretty good, and we've seen about a $5 to $7 price rally just this month,'' he said, referring to the price per hundredweight.
Economists said that the farm sector overall was not hurt as badly in the recession because farmers generally had better access to credit. At the same time, farms over all were not highly leveraged, putting them in a better position to withstand the economic storm.
''The farm economy in rural America has not suffered as severely as the industrial part of the economy and, because of the strong exports, the rural economy is recovering what it lost during the downturn,'' said Roy Bardole, a farmer in Rippey, Iowa, and chairman of the Soybean Export Council.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: T-bone steaks from the United States on sale in Seoul, South Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUNG YEON-JE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 An oat harvest in Washington State. Economists say that consumer prices in the supermarket will rise only moderately this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON SEABROOK/THE WENATCHEE WORLD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) CHARTS: Agricultural Exports Rise: U.S. agricultural exports are expected to rise this year and next, partly because of decreased output from Russia, whose crops were damaged by fires. (Source: U.S.D.A.) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MEATS (78%); RECESSION (78%); FIBER MARKETS (77%); COTTON MARKETS (77%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); WHEAT MARKETS (77%); GRAIN MARKETS (77%); CORN MARKETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

PERSON: TOM VILSACK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (59%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



4 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: It All Adds Up: This Was the City's Hottest Summer

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; C. J. Hughes and Rebecca White contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With one final, fitting blast of 96-degree heat on Tuesday, the summer of 2010 went down in the National Weather Service's record books as the hottest ever in New York City.
Hotter than the previous high of 77.3 degrees set in 1966, when more than 1,100 deaths were attributed to heat that repeatedly exceeded 100 degrees. Hotter than 2006, when a heat wave set off a blackout in northern Queens that left more than 100,000 residents without power for days.
But in this record-breaking season -- defined by the Weather Service as June through August -- there was no cataclysm, no singular event that was likely to define a three-month period when the temperature averaged 77.8 degrees. Instead, the summer of 2010 might be more properly measured in more subtle ways.
For Sal Medina, a newsstand operator from the Bronx, it could be measured by the number of frozen water bottles that he slipped into his pants this week to stay cool (three). 
For John Natuzzi, it could be all the ice cubes used during the first day of the United States Open tennis tournament on Monday (80,000 pounds).
For lifeguards, it could be the number of total visitors to the city's beaches (17.2 million).
For executives at Consolidated Edison, it would surely be the number of 90-degree days the utility struggled through without any widespread disruptions of its power network (34).
Tally it all up and the sum of the last three months is a rarely interrupted stretch of hot days that forced New Yorkers to keep cool in ways both traditional and creative.
Mr. Medina, 56, who lives in Pelham Bay, could barely stand to be inside his metal-jacketed newsstand at Clinton and Delancey Streets on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. To cool off, he devised a system using frozen pint-sized bottles of Poland Spring water.
He would tuck three inside the waistband of his pants. A fourth he would sling in a plastic bag whose handles he would knot just under his chin, holding the icy cylinder against the back of his neck.
Even with that gear, Mr. Medina said he had quit early a few days this summer, heading home at 3 p.m. on the hottest days, instead of the usual 6. The heat, he said, ''affects your whole nervous system, makes you grouchy; it makes you so you can't stand your customers.''
At Natuzzi Brothers Ice Company in Queens, the phones ring nonstop once the temperature hits 90, Mr. Natuzzi said. This summer, he said, his company has been supplying dry ice to ice-cream stores to keep their products frozen, a request he said he rarely got last summer.
The shortage of orders during the cool early months of last summer led to significant losses, Mr. Natuzzi said, but this summer has been a different story. The company, whose warehouse holds 40 tons of ice, sold out its supply during the heat wave that started on the July 4 weekend. It has been running its delivery trucks up to 15 hours a day since then.
''It's been quite a ride this summer,'' Mr. Natuzzi said.
Exhausted as he is, it is not quite over. His company supplies ice to the food-service operations at the United States Open, which runs for two weeks. On the first day, the Open used about 20,000 pounds more than usual, he said. ''I'll look back and say that this is one summer I'll never forget,'' Mr. Natuzzi said.
At Con Edison, the summer of 2010 will be memorable for what did and did not happen. In the past three months, the utility's customers drew more power off its grid than during any previous three-month period, according to data compiled by the company. But through successive heat waves, the electric distribution system held up, with only occasional localized disruptions.
''For two days we suffered,'' said Theo Trilivas, 65, a retired plumber who lost power in his home in Astoria, Queens, in July. ''No power. No cooking. No A.C. No lights. Nothing. We had to throw out everything in the freezer.''
The growing demand for power from residential customers has been one of the bigger surprises to Con Ed officials this summer. Of the company's 36 distribution networks, 14 -- all in residential areas -- exceeded the forecast for peak demand, said John F. Miksad, a senior vice president who oversees the company's electric operations. Reflecting the weak state of the economy, power usage by commercial customers declined this summer, he said.
The increased use of air-conditioning has been one constant of life in the metropolitan region. According to Con Ed's estimates, 6.6 million air-conditioners are in use in its service area, and that number is rising by at least 170,000 a year.
Sam Sharma and his wife tried placing buckets of ice cubes on window sills and in front of fans in their apartment on the second floor of a house in Woodside, Queens. But eventually they broke down and did what so many other New Yorkers have done: they bought an air-conditioner.
''We have it in the living room and only run it when it is extreme heat, and then only for a few hours,'' said Mr. Sharma, an immigrant from Nepal who works as a parking lot attendant. ''Maybe we used it 10 days this whole summer. It's expensive.''
In search of relief, some people actually sought out the city. On Monday, Sharon Fredman, 38, a Web consultant from Tenafly, N.J., had run out of suburban options to entertain her daughter, Margot, 8, and keep her cool at the same time. So she drove in for the day to let Margot splash around in a sprinkler in Tompkins Square Park. ''When it's 90 degrees,'' Ms. Fredman said, ''it's equally hot everywhere.''
When New Yorkers sought to escape the heat indoors, they flocked to the beaches, particularly Coney Island. According to the city's parks department, total attendance at Coney Island's beach slightly exceeded 12.8 million people, more than triple the total from 2009.
''There were tremendous increases at all the beaches,'' said Adrian Benepe, the parks commissioner. ''The beaches were our natural air-conditioners.''
Many of those beachgoers were repeat visitors, like Stephen Fybish, who said he went to Coney Island or neighboring Brighton Beach to swim in the ocean 11 times this summer. He said that he found the sand to be crowded some days but that he always had ample room to swim.
A weather historian who has kept detailed records on temperatures in the city for many years, Mr. Fybish was already looking ahead to September and calculating what sort of weather it would take to extend the hottest-ever distinction. By his reckoning, the average temperature for the month has to be higher than 71 degrees for New York to have its hottest June-through-September period on record.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fans at the United States Open felt the heat before the first match started on Tuesday. On Monday, the tournament ran through 80,000 pounds of ice cubes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Shade was hard to come by in Carroll Park in Brooklyn. The average temperature for June, July and August was 77.8 degrees. The previous record was 77.3, set in 1966. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) CHART: Peak Season: Below, the 10 hours when Consolidated Edison experienced the most demand for power in its history. (Source: Con Edison) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ICE CREAM (78%); BOTTLED WATER & ICE (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); NEWSSTANDS (68%); BEACHES (67%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (66%); TENNIS (66%); SPORTS (66%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%); NATUZZI SPA (55%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%); NTZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC5021 FURNITURE (55%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



5 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Newscasts Vie for Early-to-Rise (or Late-to-Bed)

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Last season, the big battle in television was fought over late night. This season, the battleground is shaping up to be the early morning. Very early.
The television business, it seems, is learning what the predawn buyers at the fish market already know: starting the day earlier can be a competitive advantage.
Stations in Boston, New York, Washington and other cities are adding 4:30 a.m. newscasts this month, joining a backward march that started in earnest a few years ago. And those are not even the earliest. One station in New York, WPIX, will move up its start time to 4 a.m. on Sept. 20. 
In catering to the earliest of the early risers, stations are reacting to the behavior patterns that are evident in the Nielsen ratings. Simply put, Americans are either staying awake later or waking up earlier -- and either way, they are keeping the television on.
In the past 15 years, the number of households that have a TV set on at 4:30 has doubled, to 16 percent this year from 8 percent in 1995. At 11:30 p.m., by comparison, when most local newscasts end, 44 percent of televisions are on, up 10 percent from the levels 15 years ago.
And although all TV newscasts skew toward older demographics, in New York, the percentage of viewers under 35 watching from 3 a.m. to 5 a.m. is higher than at any other time of day, an important part of the advertising pitch for an industry that chases young people. ''We're going to where the viewers are,'' said Dave Davis, the general manager of WABC in New York.
Already, three stations in New York have 4:30 a.m. start times. And later this month, WABC and the CBS station, WCBS, will as well. Their viewers are apparently not just insomniacs; news executives say they hear from grateful late-shift workers, suburban commuters and parents of infants (and, yes, the occasional late-night club-hopper).
''Commutes have increasingly cut into what we usually describe as sleep time,'' said Bill Carey, the news director of WPIX, an affiliate of the CW.
But the new newscasts are as much a reaction to the economics of local television as they are to changing habits. Local TV revenues plummeted when the recession began, causing many stations to lay off employees. Now they are trying to produce more news with fewer people. Almost uniformly, station executives say they do not add staff members when they add early morning shows.
Some stations do not even have reporters for their earliest hours, instead having anchors introduce the taped reports from their 11 p.m. newscasts. Even when they have reporters out and about, they are largely rehashing the prior night's news -- while standing outside in the dark, no less.
News executives say an earlier start time spurs ratings gains later in the morning, like a snowball rolling down a steep hill.
''It just creates more morning inventory for advertisers, and that's where TV stations are making their money now, in the morning,'' said Steve Ridge, president of the media strategy group for Frank N. Magid Associates, a consultant firm for TV stations.
It also appears to lengthen viewing times over all. Once a household's television is turned on in the morning, it typically stays on for hours and hours, like a cash register left open for stations to pillage.
Two stations in Chicago made the 4:30 move this summer, joining the NBC affiliate, which has been on at that half-hour since 2007. (NBC calls that newscast ''Barely Today,'' a riff on the 7 a.m. national morning show, ''Today.'') Stations in Philadelphia; Tampa, Fla.; Toledo, Ohio; and Kansas City, Mo.; to name a few, have announced newscasts at 4:30, timed to the start of the new TV season.
In Los Angeles, every station save one already starts at 4:30 a.m., and that one, KCBS, will catch up on Tuesday.
In Las Vegas, the CBS affiliate, KLAS, is already on at 4. ''I'm amazed when I drive to work, trying to figure out who's starting their day and who's ending,'' Dave McCann, one of the 4 a.m. anchors there, remarked to The Las Vegas Review-Journal in June.
The early morning alertness is all the more remarkable when history is taken into account. ''Fifteen years ago in local news, we barely had a 6 a.m. news,'' said David Friend, the senior vice president for news for the CBS television stations.
Said Mr. Carey at WPIX, ''One of the arrogant things about television is that we'd put on the news at 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. and expect you to watch it.''
Soon, Mr. Carey's station will carry newscasts from 4 to 9 weekday mornings, and he is hoping to expand to 10 a.m.
As Jeff Murri, the general manager of WJBK, the Fox station in Detroit, put it, ''Local news as the lead into local news is the best possible scenario.''
Watching the news shows for more than, say, an hour at a time would be mind-numbing, what with weather and traffic on a loop every 10 minutes and live reports and features repeated essentially word for word every hour.
''Our task is to get people prepared to get out the door,'' Mr. Murri said.
While the Internet has encroached on nearly every corner of the television business, early morning newscasts are somewhat protected, suggested Susan Sullivan, the vice president for news for NBC Local Media. In the morning, she said, ''You're less likely to be getting online -- you're putting on your pants.''
For some stations, the earliest half-hour of news is not profitable on its own. Rather, it is the cumulative lift that makes the start time worth it.
Of the 56 major markets monitored by Nielsen, some markets have many more night owls than others. The Birmingham, Ala., market is relatively wide awake at 4:30, with 26.7 percent of households tuned in. The Salt Lake City market has the lowest percentage, 9.1 percent.
When Mr. Davis was asked if WABC could ever expand to 4 a.m., the way his competitor WPIX is about to, he just let out a hearty laugh. But Mr. Murri, in Detroit, was not laughing.
''I never say never,'' he said, adding that ''4 a.m., years ago, sounded as crazy as 5 a.m.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); SUBURBS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



6 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Indexes Struggle for a Direction

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It was a rough month in August on Wall Street.
Evidence persisted that the economy was struggling. The Federal Reserve made a surprise decision to buy government debt. And uncertainty over the coming election in the United States continued to weigh on sentiment.
So even as the Dow Jones industrial average managed to close higher on Tuesday, the three major indexes finished lower for August as investors fled to safer assets. 
For the month, the Dow fell 4.3 percent, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 4.7 percent and the Nasdaq dropped 6.2 percent. It was the biggest drop for the Dow since May, when the index ended the month more than 7.9 percent lower.
The last time the broader market declined for August was in 2005, when it fell 1.12 percent.
''It has been a volatile month, certainly,'' said Guy LeBas, the chief fixed-income strategist with Janney Montgomery Scott.
''One of the biggest features of the markets has been a hypersensitivity to economic data,'' Mr. LeBas said. ''It reflects the fact that nobody knows which of the economic scenarios are going to come true. There is little middle ground.''
On Tuesday, there were mixed reports on the housing sector and consumer confidence, and trading on Wall Street wandered tentatively ahead of Friday's report on unemployment, which is expected to show that the nation's economy lost another 100,000 jobs.
And there was also further concern over the health of the global economy; China suggested that its fast-growing economy was cooling and the Bank of England reduced its forecast for the British economy.
''Investors accepted the fact that things are not going the way things are expected to go,'' said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst for Standard & Poor's. ''Basically the economy is slowly moving ahead but not quickly. The bounce is not occurring.''
Markets closed mixed on Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 4.99 points, or 0.05 percent, higher, at 10,014.72. The broader S.& P. 500 rose less than a point to 1,049.33, and the Nasdaq was down 5.94 or 0.28 percent, at 2,114.03.
Telecommunications and financial stocks rose about 1 percent or more, while technology and health care stocks slipped less than 1 percent.
Shares in Saks closed up 19.70 percent, at $7.90, after rising during the day as much as 34 percent. The Daily Mail in London reported that the retailer might receive a takeover offer from a private equity group. The article quoted unnamed sources saying that buyout firms might be close to offering $1.7 billion for Saks.
Yields in the bond market continued to slip lower Tuesday. The yield on a 10-year Treasury note was 2.47 percent, down from 2.53 percent late Monday. The price rose 17/32, to 101 12/32.
Robert Youstra, director of Treasury and agency securities at Guggenheim Capital Markets, said that investors paid historically high prices for Treasuries in August auctions. ''There has been a tremendous outflow of money from stock funds and into bond funds,'' he said.
The economic snapshot this month has not been encouraging. Initial claims for unemployment insurance rose to a seasonally adjusted half a million people, the first time since November that they had reached that level. The data released in August also pointed to a slowdown in American exports and manufacturing, a downward revision in gross domestic product, and further signs of a faltering housing market.
Then this month the Federal Reserve stepped in. Officials warned that the pace of recovery in the United States had slowed, and said they would buy government debt. The dollar rose against major European currencies. The euro slipped to $1.2665, from $1.2671 late Monday in New York, while the British pound fell to $1.5335, from $1.5468.
Crude oil fell $2.78, to $71.92 a barrel. Gold rose $10.48, to $1,247.45.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); BOND MARKETS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (68%); RETAILERS (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



7 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: In Recession, New Jobs Often Mean Lower Wages

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
After being out of work for more than a year, Donna Ings, 47, finally landed a job in February as a home health aide with a company in Lexington, Mass., earning about $10 an hour.
Chelsea Nelson, 21, started two weeks ago as a waitress at a truck stop in Mountainburg, Ark., making around $7 or $8 an hour, depending on tips, ending a lengthy job search that took her young family to California and back.
Both are ostensibly economic success stories, people who were able to find work in a difficult labor market. Ms. Ings's employer, Home Instead Senior Care, a company with franchises across the country, has been expanding assertively. Ms. Nelson's restaurant, Silver Bridge Truck Stop, recently reopened and hired about 20 people last month in an area thirsty for jobs.
Both women, however, took large pay cuts from their old jobs -- Ms. Ings worked for a wholesale tuxedo distributor, Ms. Nelson was a secretary. And both remain worried about how they will make ends meet in the long run. 
With the country focused on job growth and with unemployment continuing to hover above 9 percent, comparatively little attention has been paid to the quality of the jobs being created and what that might say about the opportunities available to workers when the recession finally settles. There are reasons for concern, however, even in the early stages of a tentative recovery that now appears to be barely wheezing along.
For years, long before the recession began, job growth had become increasingly polarized in this country. High-paid occupations that require significant amounts of education and training grew rapidly alongside low-wage, service-type jobs that do not, according to David Autor, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The growth of these low-wage jobs began in the 1980s, accelerated in the 1990s and began to really take off in the 2000s. Losing out in the shuffle, Dr. Autor said, were jobs that he described as ''middle-skill, middle-wage'' -- entry-level white-collar positions, like office and administrative support work, and certain blue-collar jobs, like assembly line workers and machine operators.
The recession appears to have magnified that trend, Dr. Autor wrote in a recent paper, released jointly by the Center for American Progress, a left-leaning policy group, and the Hamilton Project, which has a more centrist reputation. From 2007 to 2009, the paper said, there was relatively little net change in total employment for both high-skill and low-skill occupations, while employment plummeted in so-called middle-skill occupations.
A new analysis by the National Employment Law Project, a liberal advocacy group, takes a different approach, identifying industries that have experienced job growth in 2010 and examining their median wages. It is a blunter measurement because it focuses on whole industries, within which there is often great diversity in income. Economists also cautioned that it was still too early to know exactly which sectors would eventually lead the way in a sustained recovery.
Nevertheless, the law project analysis offers a snapshot of where the employment growth has been so far. It found that job expansion to this point had been skewed toward industries with median wages that are low to middling, with a disproportionate share of job growth happening in industries whose median wages fell below $15 an hour.
''There's a striking contrast so far between which industries have lost jobs and which ones are growing,'' said Annette Bernhardt, policy director for the law project. ''If this kind of bottom-heavy job creation continues, it could pose a real challenge to restoring consumer demand and making sure working families have a way to support themselves.''
Both studies are disquieting because of the potential import for many who had once scratched out middle-class livings and are now looking for work. A unifying theme is the stubborn march of labor-intensive, low-paying service jobs, like the ones Ms. Ings and Ms. Nelson found.
There is typically a downward slide during recessions, said Till von Wachter, a Columbia University economist, in which higher-skilled and higher-educated workers are re-employed first, often landing jobs for which they are overqualified, squeezing out the lesser skilled and lesser educated. Indeed, in the current downturn, the unemployment rate has climbed the most for the least-educated workers, suggesting they have been hit the hardest.
However, while researching workers who lost their jobs in California in the 1990s, Dr. Wachter found that people who fell in the middle when it came to their educational background -- possessing high school degrees or some college -- and to the skills required for their occupation tended to experience larger and longer lasting income losses after job loss than people on both the lower and higher end of the scale.
Ms. Ings had worked in a variety of office and administrative roles in the wholesale tuxedo industry. Her wages of just over $16 an hour were enough to build a relatively comfortable life for her and her daughter, Jillian, now 21 and in college.
''During her whole growing up, I never got child support,'' Ms. Ings said. ''I always had to try to find a job that paid well to help support her. That's my job, being a mother.''
When Ms. Ings was laid off in March 2009, she dove into finding another ''corporate job.'' But she found that nearly everyone seemed to be looking for people with at least a college degree, if not more. She had only a high school diploma.
As a teenager, Ms. Ings had worked in a nursing home and enjoyed it. So, after getting her certified nursing assistant license, she applied at the Home Instead office in Lexington, which has been steadily hiring, said Jack Cross, the franchise owner. Nationally, the company has created more than 2,400 jobs this year, and home health aides are one of the country's fastest growing occupations.
Ms. Ings adores her job, but her finances remain taut, even though she is working 50 hours a week. She had been without health insurance for her first few months, but soon the company will begin deducting for it -- a further pinch on her already meager paycheck.
''I'm going to be coming home with nothing,'' she said.
In Arkansas, Ms. Nelson has been hampered by her decision several years ago to quit college after a semester. She has worked a variety of jobs, including a three-year stint as a secretary, earning about $12 an hour.
Last year, she and her husband, Kenneth, and their son, Riley, now almost 2, moved to Colton, Calif., where they had relatives and believed the job market would be better. They moved back to Arkansas this year, however, after struggling to find steady work.
He quickly accepted a factory job at $8 an hour, but she got rejection after rejection trying to find office work.
Ms. Nelson eventually gave up and took up waitressing. The couple is living with her mother, trying to save enough for their own place.
''I don't know, with the jobs we have, if we're ever going to be able to make it on our own,'' Ms. Nelson said.
Online Correction: August 31, 2010, Tuesday
An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of the director of the National Employment Law Project. It is Annette Bernhardt, not Bernhard.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donna Ings took a lower-paying job as a home health aide after being out of work for over a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELE MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) CHARTS: During the recent recession, middle-income jobs were the hardest hit . . .
. . . and this year many lower-paying industries have grown faster than higher-paying ones. (Sources: Prof. David Autor, M.I.T.
 National Employment Law Project) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LIBERALISM (84%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); TRENDS (74%); WHOLESALERS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



8 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Paladino Rides Wave of Anger In Albany Race

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Carl P. Paladino, nearly an hour and a half late, rushed into a chandeliered room in the Bronx the other day to tell Hispanic religious leaders why they should elect him governor. The scrambled eggs had turned cold, and so had the room.
''Hipocrita,'' one minister whispered. Another passed around newspaper articles with the words ''bigot'' and ''anti-immigrant'' underlined.
''The paper says that you hate all Hispanics,'' State Senator Ruben Diaz Sr. of the Bronx told Mr. Paladino. ''The paper says you want to put us in jail.''
Mr. Paladino, 64, a brusque real-estate developer from Buffalo, was used to the skepticism. Critics had condemned him all week for proposing to turn empty prisons into dormitory space for welfare recipients, where, he said, they would learn job skills, parenting and hygiene. But he connected with the audience, describing his own modest childhood and saying he wanted to ''restore the dignity'' of those receiving government assistance. 
''There's not going to be any time for you to stand around on the street corner and get yourself in trouble,'' he said.
The group erupted into applause. ''I love that plan,'' said Mr. Diaz, a Democrat.
Mr. Paladino entered the governor's race five months ago as a long-shot Republican with Tea Party leanings. He was almost instantly dismissed by the party establishment as a loose cannon with an unsavory past.
But in recent weeks, Mr. Paladino's campaign has appeared to gain strength. Voters, mostly far beyond New York City, have latched onto his talk of ''demons'' in Albany. And, given the unpredictable and angry climate this year, his rise has begun to worry supporters of the once-all-but-certain Republican nominee, Rick A. Lazio.
Even as he ignites passions from Staten Island to Schenectady, Mr. Paladino has endured a series of embarrassing episodes, including the revelation that he forwarded e-mails that included racist slurs to friends. Still, he keeps provoking and rabble-rousing, saying voters are tired of scripted politicians.
''I'm a novice to all this,'' he said recently. ''I'm just frankly telling you what I think. I'll get in the face of anyone I think is wrong.''
Mr. Paladino made his name in Buffalo, first as a lawyer and then as a real estate magnate. He developed a knack for spotting buildings with huge moneymaking potential, becoming one of the most successful developers in the state. Critics point out that he is the largest landlord for state offices in Buffalo, despite his denunciation of government spending. His net worth has been estimated at $150 million.
Mr. Paladino said his interest in politics was inspired in part by his 29-year-old son, Patrick, who died in a car accident last year. His son had urged him to run for office some day, and Mr. Paladino felt he had to fulfill his wish.
''We only have so much time to leave a mark,'' he said. ''The challenge is enormous, but I look on it as something I'm capable of.''
As he flirted with the idea last spring, he met with Mr. Lazio to gauge his views. He felt Mr. Lazio was too comfortable with the status quo and decided to enter the race in April.
Since then, Mr. Paladino, with the help of the Republican consultant Roger J. Stone Jr., has fashioned a campaign around anger (''I'm mad as hell,'' his slogan reads), far-right conservatism (he calls global warming a ''farce'') and reform in Albany (he frequently talks of ''cleaning out the dirty trash''). He has pledged to reduce state spending by 20 percent in his first year and cut taxes by 10 percent within six months.
The campaign has an unofficial mascot: an 80-pound pit bull named Duke whom campaign aides say Mr. Paladino has begun to resemble. And outside his office in Buffalo is a photo of a lioness feasting on a zebra, its mouth covered in blood. A handwritten caption reads, ''U have a problem?''
The Paladino stump speech is a 17-minute polemic that draws on Franklin Delano Roosevelt and William Ernest Henley, whose poem ''Invictus'' he routinely invokes. ''I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul,'' he says in calling for change in Albany.
Mr. Paladino admits to having little political acumen. In the early days, he routinely rambled on topics that interested him, like the Chinese economy. But he has learned to self-censor, even if he has not entirely shed his business vocabulary.
His delivery can be wooden, but his words never fail to turn heads, as when he speaks of clobbering the state government with a baseball bat. He speaks frankly about his own motives and ambitions, pledging to run for one term and no more.
Like Mr. Lazio, he has found traction in his opposition to the proposed Islamic cultural center and mosque near ground zero. He has said the center would be a symbol of ''conquest'' for Muslims, and he has pledged to invoke the power of eminent domain to block it.
He blames a ''hysterical leftist'' media for some of the brouhaha surrounding his positions, spending seven minutes in a recent interview denouncing an Associated Press reporter. ''They're afraid of what I'm saying,'' he said.
Mr. Paladino's personal life has been in the spotlight. His son Patrick had a history of addiction, and Mr. Paladino has also acknowledged fathering a daughter outside of his marriage, but points out that he supports the girl and maintains a strong relationship with her.
To help deflect criticism over his past, he hired a campaign manager who specializes in crisis management, Michael R. Caputo.
Asked about the racist e-mails, Mr. Paladino said he believed much of the furor was a bid to distract from the issues, but said he was wrong to forward them.
Pressed further on the subject of racism in American society, Mr. Paladino played down its prevalence. ''It's a device used to hide behind,'' he said, pounding his fist on a couch cushion.
Mr. Paladino has financed most of his campaign, contributing about $2.6 million of his fortune so far. He has pledged to spend as much as $10 million.
Mr. Paladino said using his own money meant that he would not cave in to special interests. Indeed, he has criticized the Democratic candidate for governor, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, for building a war chest of nearly $25 million.
But Mr. Paladino has also started fund-raising, bringing in nearly $600,000 so far. Asked if he could remain independent if he took donations, Mr. Paladino said he saw fund-raising as a necessary step because his campaign was ''an effort of the people.''
With the Republican primary against Mr. Lazio coming on Sept. 14, statewide polls this summer conducted by Quinnipiac University and Siena College have shown Mr. Paladino gaining some strength, although Mr. Lazio appeared to be ahead.
Indeed, by the end of the week, Mr. Paladino's campaign expects to have the backing of eight county leaders, including Ulster County. (Mr. Lazio has the backing of 55.) Mr. Lazio has declined to debate him thus far.
In Buffalo, streets and suburban lawns are covered with his signature orange-and-black campaign signs, though the words ''as hell'' were removed from his slogan after complaints from Roman Catholic nuns in Buffalo.
Mr. Paladino said he was confident he could win. On a visit to his home in Buffalo, his family seemed less certain about his odds. ''What will happen will happen,'' said his wife, Cathy.
''I don't place any bets on it,'' said a daughter, Danielle.
But Mr. Paladino is still roaring. His secret weapon is the ''Paladino mind meld,'' as his advisers call it: hugging people who show up to his events in hopes of winning them over through affection. He will give anyone -- man, woman, child, adult -- a full and fatherly embrace. Some appreciate the gesture; others expect just a handshake and seem a bit taken aback to get more.
''I can't hug them all,'' he said, ''but I can try.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mr. Paladino in his Buffalo office with Duke, who has become the campaign's mascot. ''I'm a novice to all this,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN CAPPELLAZZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Carl P. Paladino giving a supporter of his primary campaign his trademark hug, a tactic his advisers call the ''Paladino mind meld.'' His stump speech usually quotes the poem ''Invictus.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (86%); RACE & RACISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); LAWYERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



9 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: New Casino Will Add Millions to Subsidies Propping Up Horse Tracks

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
New York City's first casino may open as soon as next year, and for the state the timing could not be better: it is expected to generate as much as $1.5 million a day for the severely depleted state treasury, as well as an upfront payment to Albany of $380 million.
But there will be another beneficiary of the great slot machine payout: the state's foundering horse racing industry.
The new casino authorized at Aqueduct Racetrack in Queens, which would feature 4,525 slot machines, will pump an estimated $30 million or more each year into New York's racetracks and breeding operations. That is on top of $100 million a year the industry gets from the existing eight slot parlors across the state. Since the first parlor opened in 2006, the machines have produced about $400 million for the horses. 
New York is not the only state that uses one form of gambling to support another. But one of the first, New Jersey, is now considering ending the subsidies for horse racing from Atlantic City. Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts recently rejected a proposal to put slot machines at a track near Boston, saying he preferred stand-alone casinos that sent a greater percentage of the revenues to the state.
''For New York,'' said William R. Eadington, director of the Institute for the Study of Gambling at the University of Nevada, ''the public policy question comes down to this: Should we spend $400 million to save racetracks or to save education and other things that are also in great need?''
New York is among 12 states that allow casinos to be installed at racetracks in an effort to revive the struggling sport. Horse owners and breeders in these states, which also include Delaware, Iowa, Maryland and Pennsylvania, say the casinos are vital to the economy: they contribute billions of dollars and, in New York, account for about 35,000 jobs, if the tally includes jockeys, trainers, grooms and the farm workers who produce hay and other food for the horses. The lush rolling hills of the horse farms provide green space and a hedge against overdevelopment, the owners and breeders say.
''The racing industry makes a significant economic contribution to the state,'' said Barry R. Ostrager, president of the New York Thoroughbred Breeders and a board member of the New York Racing Association, which would be a beneficiary of the slot machines at Aqueduct. ''The revenue that horsemen and breeders receive from slots will enable them to upgrade facilities, to upgrade racing and to make racing more attractive.''
The horse racing industry was a powerful force in Albany even before Joseph L. Bruno, who had close ties to the industry, became the majority leader in the State Senate in the mid-1990s. But Mr. Bruno, a Republican, was regarded as an exceptional ally. He rode his horse Apache in the annual Flag Day Parade in Saratoga Springs and owned a breeding operation, which eventually came under scrutiny by federal investigators and contributed to his stepping down in 2008.
''The most valuable players in the horse racing industry have been their lobbyists,'' Bennett Liebman, executive director of the Government Law Center at Albany Law School and Gov. David A. Paterson's appointee to the New York Racing Association, is fond of saying.
When the State Legislature approved the creation of limited casinos -- video slot machines were allowed, but not table games -- at racetracks in 2001, it was partly to aid education and partly to help racing by fattening purses, in order to attract better horses and more fans.
New York requires the casinos to pay out in winnings 91.5 cents of every dollar gambled. Of what is left, 44 percent is earmarked for education and 10 percent for racing: 8.75 percent for purses and 1.25 percent for breeders. Pennsylvania is more generous, providing 12 percent to horse racing, a total of $647 million since 2006.
As slots have expanded in New York, so has the payout, for both education, which received more than $450 million last year, and horse racing, which collected $104 million.
But that is not all the industry receives. Slot parlors make a profit after the fees and revenue sharing, and at the eight parlors in New York, the machines are operated by the track owners and now provide most of their income. ''There should be little doubt,'' Mr. Liebman said, ''that without the slots every harness track in New York would be out of business.''
The Aqueduct slots will be operated not by the track's owner -- the New York Racing Association, which also owns the Belmont and Saratoga tracks and is nearly insolvent -- but by an independent company, Genting New York. Genting, part of a multinational conglomerate, has received approval from the governor and leaders of the Senate and the Assembly, and is waiting for the state attorney general and comptroller to sign off.
Despite the introduction of slots, the revival of horse racing as a spectator sport has not come. The purses are bigger and the horses are considered better, but the cars in the parking lots at most tracks belong to patrons of the slot parlors. Gamblers wagered $2.2 billion on New York horse races last year, 30 percent less than in 2003, when inflation is taken into account, Mr. Liebman said. The slot machines took in $12 billion.
''You're propping up a dying industry,'' said Richard McGowan, a Jesuit priest and an economics professor at Boston College who specializes in gambling. ''The only thing that will revive horse racing is if you banned all other forms of gambling, and that's not going to happen.''
But the lifeline between the horse racing industry and gambling revenues is coming under greater scrutiny. In Massachusetts, Governor Patrick rejected a proposal to allow slots at the struggling Suffolk Downs in East Boston, saying it amounted to a no-bid contract for track owners. He favors full casinos that send a percentage of the revenues to the state coffers and none to racing.
With New Jersey's two state-run horse tracks, Meadowlands and Monmouth Park, set to lose $22 million this year, Gov. Chris Christiesent a shock wave through the industry in July when he proposed cutting off millions of dollars in racing subsidies from Atlantic City's casinos, which are under siege from new casinos in neighboring states, and shutting down the Meadowlands track. The plan faces opposition in the Legislature from racing supporters, who favor bolstering the industry by adding slots to the gambling menu at the Meadowlands, a move that the governor's advisers believe would undercut Atlantic City even further.
''Governor Christie is making a decision: If I have to choose between helping casinos and the racing industry, I don't see any reason to provide subsidies for the racing industry,'' Mr. Liebman said.
But Assemblyman J. Gary Pretlow of Mount Vernon, chairman of the New York Assembly's Racing and Wagering Committee, said the issue was jobs. ''The sport has lost a lot of its shine,'' Mr. Pretlow, a Democrat, said. ''But there are an awful lot of people in the industry, from the tracks to the breeders to the people who grow the food for the horses.''
Jeff Gural, who owns horse farms in New York and Pennsylvania, revived two small, defunct harness tracks because of slot revenues, Tioga Downs and Vernon Downs. Under New York's revenue-sharing program, about $5 million from the $50 million spent by gamblers at Tioga flowed to the horse industry.
It was money well spent for the local economy, Mr. Gural said, with as many as 150 trainers and others renting houses and eating in restaurants as they tended to about 400 horses during the five-month racing season.
At Yonkers Raceway, the closest casino to New York City, the slots pumped about $55 million last year into the racing industry. Bob Galterio, the general manager, said the revenue-sharing formula helped his track triple the average size of its purses, which in turn attracts better-quality horses.
''While our on-track attendance and handle have not gone up tremendously,'' Mr. Galterio said, ''interest in the Yonkers Raceway product has doubled. The increased purse levels make it more attractive to gamblers.''
Critics question the wisdom of a $55 million subsidy at a time when Yonkers is struggling to keep teachers and police officers on the payroll. Indeed, Frank Mauro, director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, said slot revenues might have soared to the point where the Legislature needed to alter the profit-sharing arrangement to cap the industry's share at high-producing tracks like Yonkers and Aqueduct.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yonkers Raceway and its casino, Empire City, below. Slots there pumped about $55 million into the racing industry last year.
 Critics question the wisdom of horse-racing subsidies at a time when Yonkers is struggling to preserve the jobs of teachers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); HORSE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); HORSES (90%); GAMING (90%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); AGRICULTURE (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); FARM LABOR (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (51%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



10 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Feet Often Still, but Hearts Leaping

BYLINE: By REBECCA MILZOFF

 BODY:
At 19, April Giangeruso speaks of her first six months dancing with American Ballet Theater in a girlish tone of awe and utter joy: ''ABT is absolutely the place I wanted to be.'' She's thrilled to be dancing onstage with her childhood idols, Julie Kent and Marcelo Gomes -- or, more precisely, behind them.
Ms. Giangeruso spent two years performing major pas de deux and soloist roles with ABT II, Ballet Theater's studio company, but that all changed when she became an apprentice in the main company in January, then a full corps member in June: away went the spotlight.
''You go from being a huge fish in a really tiny pond to being a really small fish in a huge lake,'' she said matter-of-factly. ''Nobody really says anything to you about your dancing. You're standing in the back, and you don't hear your name.'' For all this, she is still elated. 
At New York's major ballet companies, every summer brings a flurry of promotions just as momentous, though hardly as well publicized, as those of soloists and principal dancers: the admission of new apprentices and corps members, the young performers whose names are clustered in tiny print at the bottom of the company roster, who dance as so many snowflakes, waltzing flowers and decorative court members. With the troupes heading back to rehearsal rooms -- for an inaugural fall season at New York City Ballet, and for Alexei Ratmansky's new ''Nutcracker'' at Ballet Theater -- these talented few are about to start a new chapter in their careers.
''As a director, if you can give someone good news, savor that moment,'' Kevin McKenzie, Ballet Theater's artistic director, said. He had recently delivered good news to Calvin Royal III, 21, who will become Ballet Theater's only new apprentice this year. Mr. Royal, one of the six men in ABT II, was at Jacob's Pillow, the idyllic dance retreat, taking classes this summer and pondering career options outside the Ballet Theater bubble when he received a call asking him to return to New York. Mr. McKenzie wanted to meet with him.
''When I got back, I found out I got into ABT,'' Mr. Royal said, still exhilarated. ''It was just like, God is so good.''
In addition to one apprentice, Ballet Theater accepted only three new corps members.
At City Ballet, this year's crop is sizable -- 5 new apprentices and 10 new corps members. The numbers vary according to a combination of factors: economics, available openings (when many dancers retire or leave for other reasons), and, of course, talent.
Peter Martins, ballet master in chief at City Ballet, said the most important quality he looked for was actually not one that could be taught.
''Some people are much more hungry and eager than others,'' he said. ''I've learned over the years that some people can be very shy, stand in the back of class, and on a superficial level, it seems they're not as interested as the one pushing herself to the front row. But often it's deceiving. The most crucial thing is their mind: Are they dedicated? The worst thing you want to see is some sort of complacency.''
Since its creation of the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis School in 2004, Ballet Theater has largely drawn apprentices from those alumni, who go on to dance for up to two years in ABT II. City Ballet takes young dancers exclusively from the affiliated School of American Ballet. (Only four of the company's current dancers did not attend that school.)
''It's like home cooking,'' Mr. Martins said. ''We train our dancers very specifically with the idea that that's how we want people to dance at New York City Ballet.''
Apprenticeships are relatively brief -- usually about half a year, because of union regulations -- and dancers must quickly adjust from the coddled life of a senior student (or, in the case of ABT II members, that of a soloist) to one in which attention is a precious and rarely bestowed commodity. Ms. Giangeruso of Ballet Theater said it took some time to realize that feeling ignored wasn't necessarily a bad thing.
''Kevin told me in my initiation meeting, 'As long as I'm not running across the room, screaming your name, you know you're doing good,' '' she recalled. ''You don't want attention as a starting corps member. It's just how ballet is; nobody's going to hold your hand.''
As Mr. McKenzie noted: ''There's a myth, I think, that some kids are just plain talented -- you train them and let them go. Because dancers tend to become enormously proficient by their 20s, people think they're more mature than they are -- but they've spent their whole life in a myopic view. You have to let them grow into their talent.''
To that end, both he and Mr. Martins do not offer critiques to apprentices and new corps members, other than brief mid- and end-of-year evaluations. ''Of course if I observe something I'm not happy with, I'll call that person in and talk to them,'' Mr. Martins said, ''but it's very rare. It's not unlike life: sink or swim.''
That applies to learning the ins and outs of day-to-day company life as well. There's minutiae like sewing extra pairs of point shoes and remembering to sign in before show time (to be paid). And then there are larger concerns.
''Things are thrown together a whole lot faster in the company than in school,'' said Lauren Lovette, 18, a new corps member at City Ballet. For her year-end school performance, she had two months to rehearse. ''Now, most of the ballets we put on,'' she said, ''you get maybe a week's notice, a few rehearsals.''
A key element of that maturation experience has to do with learning the corps style. ''Corps 101 is all about matching each other: you breathe as one, you listen to the music as one,'' said Meaghan Hinkis, 19, a new corps member at Ballet Theater.
But that unity comes with significant physical challenges. Recalling the Shades scene of ''La Bayadere,'' Courtney Lavine, 21, who came up with Ms. Hinkis, said: ''It's funny because we all say, 'It's just arabesques.' But when you get out there, you're like, this is a lot of arabesques.''
There's even an art to learning what most corps members spend a majority of their stage time doing: standing still. ''It's really hard, like Lamaze breathing,'' Ms. Lavine said. ''You can't even describe that pain.''
That first year isn't all endless arabesques, though. The newest dancers on occasion receive special opportunities, which most likely speak to yet another lesson: one dancer's injury is another's gain. Taylor Stanley, 19, now a corps member at City Ballet, was thrown into Jerome Robbins's ''N.Y. Export: Opus Jazz'' in the spring. At Ballet Theater, Ms. Hinkis danced in John Neumeier's ''Lady of the Camellias'' this summer.
''It was unbelievable,'' she recalled. ''It was one of those roles you could really embellish on and make your own, and there was real partnering'' -- a rare opportunity for most corps members.
Yet in interviews the young dancers didn't dwell on those exceptional moments -- they reveled in the seemingly more mundane aspects of corps life.
''We always hope for more rehearsal time,'' Ms. Lovette said. ''We get really excited when it's like, 'Oh, I have such a full day. I'm on tonight, and I've got rehearsals.' That's the most exciting thing about being an apprentice. You look up at the casting, and you just hope you're in something. Even if you're standing in the back in some weird-looking costume, you're just happy to be there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: APRIL GIANGERUSO, who became a full corps member of American Ballet Theater in June (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE SCHIAVONE) (C1)
Jaime Hickey and Calvin Royal III, at right, in an ABT II performance of ''Raymonda.'' Mr. Royal recently became an apprentice with Ballet Theater.
Lauren Lovette, left, now a corps member at City Ballet, with other School of American Ballet students. Above, Meaghan Hinkis, foreground, a new Ballet Theater corps member, in ''La Bayadere.'' Ms. Hinkis says, ''Corps 101 is all about matching each other.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MIRA) (C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); DANCE (90%); THEATER (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); DANCERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); LAKES (74%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



11 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Grooming Home Cooks, and a Reality Franchise

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- First Gordon Ramsay came for the sous-chefs and the sour managers. Now he's here for the home cooks.
Mr. Ramsay, the infamous British chef and host of two reality shows on Fox, ''Hell's Kitchen'' and ''Kitchen Nightmares,'' has added a third competition this summer, ''MasterChef,'' for amateurs who have dreams of fine-dining careers. It is the standout reality show of the summer, and Fox is on the verge of ordering a second season.
''He is our version of 'CSI,' '' said Mike Darnell, Fox's president of alternative entertainment, referring to the three-legged CBS crime franchise. Presuming that all three shows continue, Mr. Ramsay ''won't be off the schedule for more than a couple weeks at a time,'' Mr. Darnell said.
The volume says a lot about the TV and business savvy of Mr. Ramsay, 43, a stove-top tyrant who saw in ''MasterChef'' an opportunity to show off a more tender, nurturing side. 
''It's just a different string to my bow,'' he said over a cup of English Breakfast tea in his namesake restaurant in the London West Hollywood hotel.
''MasterChef'' owes much to the American fixation on food that supports the Food Network and its new spinoff, the Cooking Channel, as well as shows like ''Top Chef'' on Bravo. On ''MasterChef'' Mr. Ramsay instructs contestants, who include a bartender, a software engineer, a doctor and a marketing executive. The top prize is $250,000 and a cookbook contract.
''It's for people who love food and see it as a pathway into a new life,'' said Howard T. Owens, a managing director at Reveille, a co-producer of the show.
Mr. Owens and Mr. Ramsay said the recession had made the show particularly relevant now. As Mr. Ramsay put it, the kitchens that were largely just ''showpieces'' in people's homes ''are actually working kitchens now.''
Of course, were the economy rebounding, there would be other reasons to cite for the show's appeal, like the casting of relatable contestants.
''They're taking huge risks, and that translates into incredibly emotional TV,'' Mr. Owens said in a separate interview at the restaurant, explaining why tears were shed so often in the episodes.
''That and the onions,'' said Adeline Ramage Rooney, a vice president for One Potato Two Potato, Mr. Ramsay's production company.
Fox essentially seeded ''MasterChef'' by putting it on in July in the time slot after ''Hell's Kitchen,'' which was Mr. Ramsay's first show for that network. That five-year-old show features professional chefs passing and failing Mr. Ramsay's tests. Alessandra Stanley of The New York Times wrote last year that he counsels contestants ''in the spirit of the British Navy circa 1800 -- with ritual floggings and pungent insults.''
On broadcast television ''Hell's Kitchen'' is the highest-rated show this summer among the 18- to 49-year-olds that the networks covet, with a 3.1 rating on average: about four million viewers. Mr. Ramsay's second show, ''Kitchen Nightmares,'' wherein he tries to reform failing restaurants, is three years old. Its most recent season ended in the spring.
Asked what explains the more nurturing Gordon Ramsay on ''MasterChef,'' he referred to the cooking lessons he has given his children.
''There's different heads for different levels of professionalism,'' he said.
Supplanting Mr. Ramsay in the mean judge role on ''MasterChef'' is Joe Bastianich, the restaurateur. The third judge is the chef Graham Elliot.
The original ''MasterChef'' format has been around for decades -- Mr. Ramsay was even a guest judge once on ''MasterChef'' in Britain. It was tried in the United States once before, in 2000, on PBS, but did not gain much traction. This time, to borrow a phrase from the famous cooking competition ''Iron Chef,'' Mr. Ramsay is the secret ingredient.
''I wouldn't do a cooking show without him,'' Mr. Darnell said in an interview on Monday.
''MasterChef'' was brought to Fox by Shine Group, the production and distribution company owned by Rupert Murdoch's daughter Elisabeth, which entirely revamped the format about five years ago. Networks in the United States took notice of it when the Australian version set ratings records last summer. Shine says the format is now locally produced in 15 countries.
The ''MasterChef'' rights holders want to spin off a set of branded businesses, not unlike the peddling of T-shirts and kitchen knives by ''Top Chef.'' Those efforts will happen much more aggressively in future seasons, Mr. Owens said, though already the first ''MasterChef'' cookbook will arrive in bookstores on Wednesday. The winner will have a separate cookbook.
For his part, Mr. Ramsay says he is more interested in grooming talent than in selling products. He has an exclusive contract with Fox which remains in effect for ''one more year,'' he said in the interview. Asked about the prospect of a contract renewal, Mr. Darnell said, ''Our door is always open.''
The summer season has been fertile territory for reality before, giving rise to ''American Idol'' and ''Survivor'' many years ago, but in recent years ''there's been a dearth of really good first-year reality shows,'' said Brad Adgate, the senior vice president of research at Horizon Media.
''MasterChef'' is an exception, the first clear-cut success story for summer reality since ''Wipeout,'' the obstacle-course contest that ABC introduced in 2008.
Fox has been particularly heartened by the ratings for ''MasterChef'' in recent weeks. Mr. Darnell said the series had thrived even after losing its ''Hell's Kitchen'' lead-in two weeks ago and expanding to two hours.
To date it has averaged 3.3 million viewers between the ages of 18 and 49, a 2.5 rating, making it No. 1 among new shows this summer. On Wednesdays, though, it remains behind two older reality franchises, ''America's Got Talent,'' which NBC renewed on Tuesday, and CBS's ''Big Brother.''
While Mr. Ramsay is very pleased with the ratings, he's well on to his next projects. (''I get overexcited, that's my problem,'' he said in the interview.) Mr. Ramsay recently opened a Los Angeles office for his production company, indicating that he plans to produce more shows here, even ones without him as host. In Britain he is preparing ''Ramsay's Best Restaurant,'' a format that he says he is developing for the United States as well.
But he already has three plates in the air, not to mention his shows overseas. How much longer can he keep them all spinning? There was a long pause in the dining room before he answered.
''How long is a piece of string?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gordon Ramsay in an episode of his latest reality contest, ''MasterChef,'' a standout show for Fox this summer. (C1)
 David Miller, center, a ''MasterChef'' contestant, with Gordon Ramsay, left, and the chef Graham Elliot, a judge. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREG GAYNE/FOX) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (58%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: MasterChef (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



12 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Support of a Troubled Bank Is Putting Increased Pressure on Ireland

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
DUBLIN -- Can one bank bring down a country?
Anglo Irish Bank, the midsize Irish lender whose profligacy has come to symbolize the excesses of the real estate bubble here, is doing its best to find out.
No other country aside from Iceland suffered a banking bust as severe as Ireland's during the financial crisis. Ireland was also the country that took the most direct route in tackling the problem, by recognizing upfront the bad loans of its devastated banks and transferring them to government ledgers.
Both the United States and Britain avoided such a move by taking stakes in their troubled banks and, in the case of Britain, insuring their worst-performing loans.
Now the Irish government's strategy is being called into question as its credit rating suffers and its borrowing costs resume their upward trajectory. Ireland's struggle to cope with its mounting bank losses could well be a harbinger for other parts of Europe and for the United States as stuttering economic growth and stagnant housing markets put further strain on bank balance sheets. 
Anglo Irish, which on Tuesday reported a first-half loss of 8.2 billion euros ($10.4 billion) also said the government had injected an additional 8 billion euros ($10.16 billion) into the bank, bringing total aid so far to 22 billion euros.
Mike Aynsley, the bank's chief executive, said Tuesday that he expected the government's total investment in the bank to be about 25 billion euros ($31.75 billion). He added that commercial property, the bank's core lending market, which is already down 60 percent, had not yet reached bottom.
''Anytime you see a correction like that, you will see carnage,'' he said. ''But we think that the 25 billion euros will be largely sufficient.''
Analysts here expect the bank's defunct loans to hit 35 billion euros, or about 22 percent of Ireland's gross domestic product -- a hard-to-believe figure, given that Anglo Irish at its peak was just the third-largest bank in Ireland. In 2008, total Irish bank lending to households and nonfinancial companies was more than 200 percent of G.D.P. -- by far the highest such ratio in the euro zone.
The growing losses at Anglo Irish and other Irish banks are expected to cost the government 80 billion to 90 billion euros, according to Standard & Poor's, which says 35 billion euros will be needed for Anglo Irish -- a figure the government and Mr. Aynsley say is significantly overstated.
The ratings agency said that the country's banking liabilities would push its debt-to-G.D.P. ratio to 113 percent in 2012, higher than Spain's and Belgium's and approaching the levels of countries like Italy and Greece.
Last week, S.& P. downgraded Ireland's credit rating to AA-minus from AA, a change that has driven the already steep spread, or risk premium, on 10-year Irish government bonds to new highs of 5.5 percentage points -- second in the euro zone only to Greece's 11 percentage points.
''This is out of control and the markets see it now,'' said Peter Mathews, an independent banking and real estate consultant here, who for the last year has been waging a furious one-man crusade, warning of Anglo Irish's escalating losses and calling for the bank to be liquidated -- with bond holders, not the Irish taxpayer, taking the hit.
''How bad can it get?'' Mr. Mathews said. ''Irish debt paper could stop being tradable, and the outside agencies like the European Union and the International Monetary Fund might have to come in.''
Mr. Mathews's view in this regard represents an extreme. Economists at the Economic and Social Research Institute, an independent organization here, cite the government's cash cushion of about 40 billion euros -- much of it set aside at the outset of the crisis -- as a crucial safety net that separates Ireland from Greece.
The government, for its part, argues that Ireland's approach to bad loans -- taking them off the balance sheets of the banks and then assuming responsibility for them -- was correct.
''Our banks would have probably assumed zombie-like status if we had delayed in recognizing these impairments,'' said John Corrigan, the chief executive of the country's debt management agency. Part of his organization is the National Asset Management Agency, the government group that has spent the year buying bad loans from banks.
''The downgrade was deeply disappointing to us, but we still have a better credit rating than Italy and Portugal,'' he said. And international bond investors, who own about 85 percent of the government's debt, continued to buy its paper, he said.
Will the Anglo Irish loans lead to a buyers' strike by investors?
''No,'' said Mr. Corrigan with a vigorous shake of his head. ''We have enough liquidity to take us well into the second quarter next year.''
While Mr. Mathews and the government may be opposed on how to handle the problem, they agree on how absurd the lending practices at Anglo Irish were.
Even by the standards of the global banking collapse, Anglo Irish stood out. From a loan book of about 75 billion euros when the government took over in 2009, Anglo Irish says that it has only about 12 billion euros in loans that it classifies as performing. The bank is expected to transfer 36 billion euros in troubled loans to the asset management agency -- about half its existing loans.
''It was mad -- a credit cocaine run,'' said Mr. Mathews, his voice rising in frustration.
He was standing outside a gravel-strewn 25-acre plot, flanked by a housing project and the rough Dublin docklands. In 2006, as Ireland's real estate frenzy reached its peak, a group of developers paid 412 million euros ($523.2 million) for this industrial site, backed by a 300 million euro loan from Anglo Irish.
Mr. Mathews, a former banker who now advises real estate developers, estimates that the land may now be worth only 20 million euros -- if it can be sold at all.
It is not just in Ireland that the bank's aggressive lending stood out. Through its private client division in Boston, Anglo Irish was one of the most wildly eager property lenders in the United States. It financed the construction of skyscrapers in Chicago and shopping centers in Boston, not to mention lending more than $500 million to a series of troubled and in some cases failed real estate projects in New York.
Most notorious of those was a top-of-the-market, $393 million mortgage in 2007 to the Apthorp, a luxury apartment building in New York that has been home to celebrities like the writer Nora Ephron and the actor Al Pacino.
After a series of legal disputes, the building's developers are struggling to convert the complex into an upscale condominium. Anglo Irish recently said that rents on the units would be paid directly to the bank -- an indication, analysts say, that the project's developers may be facing further financing strains.
''It was just the height of hubris,'' Mr. Mathews said as he drove away from the deserted development site in Dublin. ''And why should Citizen Joe and Mary pick up the tab for this when it was the bondholders that had all the aces in their hand?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The bank has received 22 billion euros in government aid so far. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL McERLANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); EURO (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%)

COMPANY: IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (74%) IRELAND (95%); ICELAND (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BELGIUM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



13 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Weight, Keeping Bubbles

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
REIMS, France -- Deep below a lush landscape of ripening Champagne grapes, Thierry Gasco, the master vintner for Pommery, ran his finger over the shoulders of a dark green bottle that looked just like the thousands of others reposing in his chilly subterranean cellars.
But to the practiced hand and eye, there is a subtle, if potentially significant, difference.
''This is how we're remaking the future of Champagne,'' he said, pointing to the area just below the neck. ''We're slimming the shoulders to make the bottle lighter, so our carbon footprint will be reduced to help keep Champagne here for future generations.''
The Champagne industry has embarked on a drive to cut the 200,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide it emits every year transporting billions of tiny bubbles around the world. Producing and shipping accounts for nearly a third of Champagne's carbon emissions, with the hefty bottle the biggest offender. 
Yet while many other industries might plaster their marketing with eco-friendly claims, changes to Champagne, as with so much else in France, are being made discreetly. Producers in this secretive business are tight-lipped about the costs and occasionally enigmatic about how much their carbon emissions will really be cut.
''Champagne is sometimes more humble than it should be,'' said Philippe Wibrotte of the Comite Interprofessionnel du Vin de Champagne, the region's trade organization. ''Much is done for the promotion of the environment, but it's kept quiet because we want to make sure each step is perfect.''
The industry speaks in hushed tones, too, in deference to the luxurious image and ritualistic traditions of Champagne, as symbolized for centuries by the bottle. It was Dom Perignon, a Benedictine monk, who first thickened the glass in the mid-1600s to contain what was often referred to as ''the devil's wine'' because its vessels exploded so often. Over time, the bottle was gradually recalibrated until 900 grams, or about two pounds, became the standard weight in the early 1970s.
The current retooling, which uses 65 fewer grams (2.3 ounces) of glass, is in response to a 2003 study of Champagne's carbon footprint, which the industry wants to cut 25 percent by 2020, and 75 percent by 2050.
The move comes as efforts to reduce carbon output and improve vineyard ecology are accelerating worldwide, as wine houses reduce packaging, pesticides, water use and transportation. In California, for example, winegrowers are promoting what their trade group, the Wine Institute, says are nearly 230 ''green practices,'' including methods to cut carbon emissions.
Champagne accounts for only 10 percent of the three billion bottles of sparkling wine produced globally each year. But the bottle stands out for its heft. Italian prosecco, for instance, uses a 750-gram bottle. But it and its various fizzy cousins have only about half the pressure of Champagne -- which generates three times the air pressure of a typical car tire.
Although some of Pommery's restyled bottles are already on the market, the C.I.V.C. expects all Champagne houses to start using the new 835-gram vessel next April for bottling this month's grape harvest; the new wave of bottles will hit stores after three years of fermentation. The effort, the group says, will trim carbon emissions by 8,000 metric tons annually -- the equivalent of taking 4,000 small cars off the road.
''For Champagne producers to reduce the weight of their packaging is definitely a step in the right direction,'' said Tyler Colman, an author of environmental studies on the wine industry, ''because there's less mass to transport around the world.''
Vranken-Pommery Monopole, which in addition to Pommery owns Heidsieck & Company Monopole and other labels, got a head start by adopting the lighter bottle in 2003. Consumers around the world may have already uncorked some specimens without noticing the new bottle. Moet & Chandon, Veuve Cliquot and a few others quietly switched this year, with those bottles still under fermentation.
The rest of the Champagne producers are deciding whether to embrace the C.I.V.C.'s mandate, which is voluntary but carries special force in this clannish community.
Designing a new bottle was no small feat. The container still had to withstand Champagne's extreme pressure. It would also need to survive the four-year obstacle course from the factory floor to the cellars to the dining table, and fit in existing machinery at all Champagne houses. And it had to be molded so that consumers would barely detect the difference in the bottle's classic shape.
''The bottle is part of Champagne's image, and we don't want to affect it,'' said Daniel Lorson, a spokesman for the trade group.
Mr. Gasco said Vranken Pommery, one of the largest houses, has spent 500,000 to one million euros ($635,000 to about $1.3 million) each year since 1994 on environmental initiatives, including research and testing of the lighter bottle.
But the bottle, he said, is not about money, which has become tighter since the financial crisis. Industrywide sales for Champagne last year were 3.7 billion euros ($4.7 billion), down from nearly 5 billion euros in 2007.
''Reducing their carbon footprint and energy use is also a great way to make their operations more financially viable, especially with the economy the way it is,'' said Euan Murray, an official at the Carbon Trust, a nonprofit group that advises businesses and government on global warming issues.
Sipping a glass of Pommery during an interview, Mr. Gasco eventually disclosed that the new bottles cost around 32 euro cents (41 United States cents) each, not much cheaper than the classic. But Mr. Gasco, who sits on the C.I.V.C.'s bottling panel, said ''if everyone starts to use it, the price will come down.'' Any savings, however, would be too slight to pass on to consumers, he said.
Most of the new Champagne bottles are made at the St. Gobain plant near here, where molten red glass is dropped from a 20-foot-high chute into molds at a rate of 160 a minute. The glass is cooled from more than 1,000 degrees Celsius for over an hour, scanned for imperfections and stacked on pallets for shipping.
A worker on Pommery's assembly line, who declined to be named, said he noticed that a few more of the new bottles were exploding, and that they made a higher-pitched sound when they clinked together. Mr. Gasco denied there were more explosions, and said any damage more likely came from using heat to inject the cork.
Bruno Delhorbe, the director at the St. Gobain factory, said that using less glass lowered the carbon emissions necessary to make each bottle by 7 percent, and allowed about 2,400 more to be placed inside delivery trucks, reducing the number of trucks on the road.
Slimming the shoulders while thinning the glass, he noted, also allowed his clients to avoid giving their customers more Champagne for the same price.
Of course, there are even lighter alternatives: Many of the world's producers of still wines are employing plastic bottles and box containers to reduce their carbon footprint.
But it may be a long time before Champagne goes that route. Most houses take pains to cultivate an image of luxury through packaging and pricing -- and intimations that other sparkling wines are inferior because they simply are not Champagne.
Still, many producers insist that while tradition has its place, the environmentally motivated changes are about the future. Patrick LeBrun, an independent producer, said he started going green ''for personal reasons.'' He has not used herbicides for five years, and this year, he is putting all of his product into the lighter bottle.
''There's about a 2-cent price difference but that's not what decided me,'' he said. Trying to improve the environment ''is my contribution to the next generation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Most newer Champagne bottles are made at a plant near Reims, France. (B1)
Workers inspecting new Champagne bottles for imperfections. The bottles are made by dropping molten glass into molds.
 Champagne makers are trying to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide produced by the industry by 75 percent by 2050. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANE LAVOUE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B7) DRAWING: Subtle Difference, Big Payoff: Champagne bottles were designed to be thick and heavy to withstand the extreme pressure inside. But a new bottle, 2.3 ounces or 7 percent lighter, was recently adopted by the industry's trade group. It claims the lower weight will reduce carbon emissions during production and transport. The savings will add up when multiplied by the 300 million bottles of Champagne sold every year. (Source: Saint-Gobain) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (89%); WINE (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHAMPAGNE-ARDENNE, FRANCE (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



14 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: No Charges For Moody's In Ratings Violation

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission said Tuesday that it had declined to charge Moody's Investors Service for violating securities laws by failing to comply with its own procedures for rating complex derivative securities in 2007.
The decision followed an S.E.C. investigation, and the commission used the opportunity to warn all of the national credit rating agencies that it would use new powers under the Dodd-Frank banking law to take action against similar conduct, even if it occurred outside the United States, as the Moody's case did. 
The S.E.C. said it had declined to pursue a fraud enforcement action in the case because of jurisdictional issues. The securities in question originated in and were rated and sold in Europe, the S.E.C. said.
The action by the commission comes two years after the beginning of a financial crisis caused in part by widespread losses on mortgage-related derivative securities that had been rated highly by national credit ratings agencies, including Moody's.
Though the credit rating agencies have come under criticism over their role in the financial crisis, they have not been the subject of major enforcement actions by securities regulators.
Moody's disclosed the inquiry in May, saying that the S.E.C. had warned that it might sue the firm for making ''false and misleading'' statements as part of its application as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, known in S.E.C. parlance by the initials N.R.S.R.O.
The company's share price dropped sharply after the investigation was reported. Moody's shares spiked upward on Tuesday on news of the completion of the investigation, although the price finished relatively unchanged.
Michael Adler, a spokesman for the Moody's Corporation, the parent of Moody's Investors Service, said the company was pleased the matter had been resolved without an enforcement action.
''We fully support the commission's message that every rating decision must be based only on credit considerations,'' Mr. Adler said, ''and we are committed to maintaining robust procedures to ensure that our internal company policies are followed.''
Robert Khuzami, the director of the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, said that because investors had relied on both the ratings and the statements that credit rating agencies made to the commission about how they determined credit ratings, the rating agencies must ''have in place sufficient internal controls'' over those procedures.
In detailing its findings, the commission said that Moody's had failed to follow its procedures in 2007 when it determined that a coding error caused it to issue higher ratings than it otherwise would have on complex securities known as constant proportion debt obligations.
Despite the discovery, Moody's failed to correct its ratings in part because of concerns that doing so would negatively affect the company's business reputation, the report said. That decision was made by an internal committee that included two managing directors, two senior credit officers and a senior analyst.
In January 2008, about a year after the discovery of the coding error, Moody's began to downgrade the securities, but still did not reveal the error publicly. In May 2008, an article in The Financial Times disclosed the error, and several weeks later Moody's acknowledged its actions and fired three managing directors, including two members of the committee that had failed to act.
''Because of uncertainty regarding a jurisdictional nexus to the United States in this matter, the commission declined to pursue a fraud enforcement investigation,'' the S.E.C. said in its report.
But it noted that the Dodd-Frank law contained a provision giving it jurisdiction over conduct within the United States ''even if the securities transaction occurs outside the United States and involves only foreign investors.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (93%); SECURITIES LAW (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); BANKING LAW (73%); BUSINESS TORTS (69%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (94%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (93%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (94%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



15 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Rises Slightly

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Consumer confidence improved slightly in August, according to the latest Conference Board survey, but Americans remained apprehensive about the economy and the job market.
The Conference Board said Tuesday that its index on consumer confidence rose in August to 53.5 points. It had declined to 51 in July.
The rise in the index -- which examines how Americans feel about business conditions, the job market and the next six months -- was above forecasts of 50.5. A reading of at least 90 indicates a healthy economy. 
''All in all, consumers are about as confident today as they were a year ago,'' said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's consumer research center. ''Expectations about future business and labor market conditions have brightened somewhat, but over all, consumers remain apprehensive about the future.''
Consumer confidence is closely watched because consumer spending typically accounts for 70 percent of the American economy and is crucial to a sustained recovery.
Americans expected a modest improvement in business conditions and were less pessimistic about job prospects, according to the survey. Those expecting more jobs in the months ahead rose to 14.6 percent, from 14.2 percent, the survey said, while consumers anticipating fewer jobs decreased to 19.4 percent, from 20.9 percent.
Chris G. Christopher Jr., senior principal economist for IHS Global Insight, said many respondents noted that jobs were hard to get in August.
''Consumers are still very worried about the current state of the labor market, but improvement in confidence, albeit modest, is a small piece of good news given the steady stream of negative reports,'' Mr. Christopher said.
''People think six months from now things are going to get better,'' he said.
In another report on Tuesday, a crucial index on home prices in the United States rose in June, the last month a three-month moving average may have benefited from a tax credit for home buyers.
The Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller 20-city home price index, a widely watched indicator, on Tuesday reported a 1 percent rise in June from May, the third consecutive monthly increase.
Nationally, the index rose 4.4 percent in the second quarter of 2010, after having fallen 2.8 percent in the first quarter. Home prices in the nationwide index are 3.6 percent above their year-earlier levels in the three-month period.
But the outlook for the housing prices remains uncertain as excess supply, the flagging job market and other factors weigh on the sector.
Economists said a federal housing credit distorted prices as home buyers took advantage of the credit. Though the tax incentive expired in April, data for June was still being influenced by earlier transactions that may have benefited from the credit.
That means the outlook for the rest of the year remains weak with the expiration of the tax credit, as well as the high level of foreclosures and inventories.
''While the numbers are upbeat, other more recent data on home sales and mortgages point to fewer gains ahead,'' David M. Blitzer, chairman of the Index Committee at Standard & Poor's, said in a statement.
''The worry starts when you remember that the home buyers' tax credit has expired, foreclosures are still at high levels, and July data on home sales and starts were very, very weak,'' he said. Yelena Shulyatyeva, a United States economist for BNP Paribas, said that without employment growth, and in view of the excess housing supply, housing prices should remain under pressure throughout this year and next.
''We do not take this report as a signal of future strength,'' Ms. Shulyatyeva said.
Patrick Newport, the United States economist for IHS Global Insight, said he expected home prices to decline next year, with the second-quarter index figures in 2011 to be another 8 to 10 percent lower from where they are now.
''The key reason is because there is still a big glut of homes,'' he said, with the second reason the number of foreclosures, followed by a job market that ''just isn't picking up,'' he said.
The June numbers basically reflect a three-month moving average. Seasonally adjusted, home prices in June increased 0.71 percent in New York City and 0.02 percent in Los Angeles compared with the previous month.
The Case-Shiller report showed that 17 of the 20 metro areas surveyed registered an increase in June compared with May, according to nonseasonally adjusted data. Las Vegas fell 0.6 percent, with prices there close to their levels in 2000.
Prices in Phoenix and Seattle remained flat.
A report on pending home sales is scheduled to be released on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A bank-owned house that is for sale in the Spring Valley area of Las Vegas, one of the worst performers in a monthly report. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK RALSTON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Consumer Confidence: Index measures attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (96%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (96%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



16 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Minutes Show Division of Fed Officials In a Discussion of Buying Treasuries

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Federal Reserve officials expressed considerable uncertainty before they took a nearly unanimous vote on Aug. 10 to take a modest step to bolster the flagging recovery, according to the central bank's minutes of the meeting.
The meeting, which lasted 5 hours and 35 minutes, longer than usual, ended with the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy, voting 9 to 1 to use proceeds from the Fed's mortgage bonds to buy long-term Treasury securities. 
The action was largely technical -- it merely prevented the Fed's bond portfolio from shrinking -- but it was also strongly symbolic as it signaled a growing concern about slowing recovery and the risk of deflation. Since the Fed announced its action, the stock market has dipped.
The minutes, released Tuesday, revealed that Fed officials were divided on how effective the purchase of long-term Treasuries would be, and on whether it would complicate an eventual return to normal monetary policy.
While the committee closed ranks behind the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, who supported the move and whose views are generally decisive in setting policy, the minutes suggested that he would have to go even further to overcome his colleagues' reservations if the Fed were to resume buying huge quantities of government debt -- an action Mr. Bernanke has said he is prepared to take if the economy worsens significantly.
The Fed used up its main policy tool by lowering short-term interest rates to nearly zero in late 2008. So it bought about $1.4 trillion in mortgage-linked securities and debts owed by entities like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, from January 2009 to March 2010, in an effort to ease credit and push down long-term rates.
One consequence is that homeowners have been refinancing their loans and paying off their debts early. As a result, the nearly $2.1 trillion in domestic securities on the Fed's balance sheet was likely to shrink by nearly $400 billion by the end of 2011.
To avoid an unintended ''passive tightening'' of monetary policy, the committee agreed to reinvest proceeds from the Fed's mortgage-related holdings in long-dated government securities.
A few committee members thought the effect of the decision ''would be quite small,'' according to the minutes. (By one estimate, the decision lowered the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which was 2.47 percent on Tuesday, by 0.15 percentage points.)
A few worried that the strategy ''could send an inappropriate signal to investors about the committee's readiness to resume large-scale asset purchases.''
The minutes noted that one member argued that the decision ''was likely to complicate the eventual exit from the period of exceptionally accommodative monetary policy and could have adverse macroeconomic consequences.''
While the minutes do not identify which members expressed what views, the sole dissenter was Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.
The minutes revealed a consensus that the economic outlook had softened and that inflation had fallen -- a phenomenon known as disinflation -- well below the implicit target of nearly 2 percent. Some members ''expressed a concern that in this context any further adverse shocks could have disproportionate effects, resulting in a significant slowing of growth going forward,'' the minutes said.
The economic sluggishness has made it ever more challenging for the Fed to meet its two-part legal mandate: maintaining price stability while promoting maximum employment.
''While no member saw an appreciable risk of deflation, some judged that the risk of further near-term disinflation had increased somewhat,'' the minutes noted. ''More broadly, members generally saw both employment and inflation as likely to fall short of levels consistent with the dual mandate for longer than had been anticipated.''
One argument against the risk of deflation is that long-run inflation expectations, which the Fed closely watches, have not fallen. But one committee member, the minutes reported, said that surveys showed that such expectations ''remained positive in Japan throughout that country's bout of deflation,'' which began in the early 1990s.
At an annual Fed policy symposium last weekend in Jackson Hole, Wyo., Mr. Bernanke explained the Aug. 10 decision and reiterated the Fed's commitment to intervene if necessary. But he emphasized the potential drawbacks to additional action and said he did not believe deflation was likely.
Top economists attending the symposium were divided about what the Fed should do next.
Raghuram G. Rajan, of the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago, said he feared the Fed would repeat what it did after the last recession, in 2001. Fears about deflation in 2002-3 contributed to a decision to keep interest rates at very low levels until 2004. Some economists believe those low rates helped feed the housing bubble that began bursting in 2007.
''The pressure on the Fed to do the impossible -- to bring back the jobs -- is going to continue over the next few years, but it's very important that the Fed focus on what it can do, and move away from the emergency policy framework it put in place during the crisis,'' he said in an interview.
But James H. Stock, a Harvard professor, presented a paper arguing that inflation could fall even further by the middle of next year, given the enormous amount of unused capacity in the economy.
''One of the key lessons of monetary policy is that we need to be ready to deploy these tools if we see a further weakening of the economy,'' Professor Stock said in an interview, referring to the Fed's unconventional options, like asset purchases. ''And I happen to think you will see a further weakening.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas M. Hoenig, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, was the dissenter at the meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BONDS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); DEFLATION (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



17 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Bucking History, Obama Tries to Make Progress on Several Fronts in Mideast

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
President Obama is attempting a triple play this week that eluded his predecessors over the past two decades: simultaneous progress on the most vexing and violent problems in the Middle East -- Israeli-Palestinian peace, Iraq and Iran -- in hopes of creating a virtuous cycle in a region prone to downward spirals.
History shouts that all the odds are against him. White House officials, eager to show concrete progress on the hardest foreign policy challenges at a time when Mr. Obama is struggling with a variety of domestic issues, contend that that the president has changed the political climate in all three arenas and has the best shot in years at creating positive and interlocking results. 
When President Bill Clinton tried a similar strategy, he argued that a comprehensive peace between the Israelis and Palestinians would make it easier for Arab nations to join in the ''dual containment'' of Iran and Saddam Hussein's Iraq. It turned out that the reverse was true as well: When one of those efforts fell apart, so did the other two.
A month before invading Iraq, President George W. Bush argued that toppling Saddam Hussein would create ''a dramatic and inspiring example of freedom for other nations in the region,'' leading Arab countries ''to support the emergence of a peaceful and democratic Palestine, and state clearly they will live in peace with Israel.'' Instead, Iraq went up in flames and hopes for peace collapsed. Iran accelerated its drive for a nuclear capability.
Mr. Obama's argument, which formed one subtext of his speech to the nation on Tuesday night about the end of the American combat mission in Iraq and which will play out Wednesday and Thursday as he gathers Israeli and Palestinian leaders for their first direct talks in two years, is more subtle about the linkage among the issues.
''There are three big chess pieces here, and in each of those places we are now poised for success,'' Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama's chief of staff and a major voice in Middle East policy, said in an interview Tuesday. He argued that while the linkages are loose, ''victory begets victory, and success will be reinforcing.''
While Mr. Obama's thinking contains elements of the logic that drove his predecessors, there are also some critical differences, and success or failure hinges on how significant those turn out to be. Those differences include evidence that the United States is truly pulling out of Iraq, far tougher sanctions on Iran and the tentative emergence of a working Palestinian government in the West Bank.
The main problem is that success is not assured in any of the fronts in question, and the dynamic among them is unpredictable.
''It's hard to make the case that progress in the peace process is going to resolve the political stalemate in Iraq, or force the Iranians to reconsider their nuclear program,'' said Martin S. Indyk, who served as American ambassador to Israel and now is the director of foreign policy at the Brookings Institution. ''But I think you can claim that success would help make headway in isolating Iran, and Iran's claims to leadership in the region would be challenged. The risk -- the one we forgot in the Clinton years -- is that failure can also diminish your credibility.''
It is in Iraq, a war Mr. Obama campaigned to end, where he is claiming progress. While Iraq's fractious politicians have still not agreed on a government nearly six months after an election and insurgents have landed some punishing recent attacks, overall violence has fallen and the withdrawal from combat missions happened a few weeks ahead of schedule. ''It is clear in Iraq a genuine political process is under way,'' said Dennis B. Ross, Mr. Obama's top Middle East adviser.
Still, Mr. Obama is loath to declare anything resembling victory, and he said Tuesday that a ''tough slog'' remained. The question is whether the American public is willing to see more money and lives spent there while Iraqi politicians argue.
As Ryan C. Crocker, the former American ambassador to Iraq, wrote recently in The National Interest: ''Strategic patience is often in short supply in this country. It is not a new problem for us, and it is not limited to Iraq.''
While 50,000 American troops remain in Iraq for now, Mr. Obama made clear Tuesday night that he was intent on moving on from that war, proclaiming that his primary mission now was to jump-start the American economy and address domestic issues like energy and education.
But as the Iranians have learned in recent months, Mr. Obama also seems persistent in finding new ways to turn the screws, and that is another element of the strategy.
When Mr. Obama came to office, three successive sets of international sanctions against Iran had had little effect, and there was virtually no prospect of getting a fourth.
It took 17 months for Mr. Obama to build the case for another round, and to orchestrate far more damaging additional measures -- enforced by Europe, Japan, Australia and even some Arab nations -- that have cut gasoline imports into Iran, sliced access to most foreign banking, and made it enormously difficult for shippers to obtain the insurance they need to go in and out of foreign ports.
''We finally have leverage,'' said Mr. Ross, noting that for the first time Iranian officials have started calling for resumed talks with the West.
But few believe that the pain will cause Iran to give up its nuclear enrichment program. In fact, Iran could respond by speeding it up. There is also the possibility, some believe the probability, that Iran will seek to do whatever it can to prevent the direct talks between Israel and the Palestinians from becoming fruitful.
Still, Mr. Obama's advisers argue that conditions have never been better for those talks: Attacks on Israel are down and the government of President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority has brought infrastructure, policing and better living to the West Bank. Many in Israel and among the Palestinians say they want a two-state solution, although support is ebbing. But many analysts are pessimistic that either side is willing to make the sacrifices necessary to achieve it.
The big question is whether the image of America pulling out of Iraq, and of the White House re-engaging in the peace process, will be enough.
''In none of these areas have we achieved success,'' Mr. Ross said. ''But now we have the possibility and the potential for significant progress.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PRESIDENTIAL DIPLOMACY: In July 2000, Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel, left, President Bill Clinton and the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat toured Camp David during a summit meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN JAFFE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 THE WAR COUNCIL: President George W. Bush reviewing the progress of the Iraq war with his top military and security advisers in April 2003, in the early days of the American invasion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC DRAPER/THE WHITE HOUSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); IRAQ WAR (77%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); EHUD BARAK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



18 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cuts That Make A Difference

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
It's time to start talking about a tax cut.
The economy is struggling mightily. Some 15 million people remain unemployed. The Federal Reserve has been slow to act and still is not doing much. The Senate has been unable to find the 60 votes needed to pass anything but minor bills.
The best hope for a short-term economic plan that can win bipartisan support is a tax cut -- and not the permanent extension of George W. Bush's tax cuts, which have been dominating the debate lately. Such an extension is unlikely to win many Democratic votes. Republicans, meanwhile, are unlikely to support more spending, like the national infrastructure project President Obamahas been mentioning.
A well-devised tax cut could be different. Cutting taxes has been the heart of the Republican economic program for 30 years, and last year's stimulus bill showed that Mr. Obama was open to tax cuts. 
The question, then, is what kind of cut can put people back to work quickly.
The last 30 years offer some pretty good answers. For one thing, a permanent reduction in tax rates focused on the affluent -- along the lines of those 2001 Bush tax cuts -- does little to lift growth in the short term. An across-the-board, one-time cut -- like the one that Mr. Bush signed in 2008 or that Mr. Obama signed last year -- does more.
But the most effective tax cut for putting people back to work quickly is one that businesses and households get only if they spend money. Last year's cash-for-clunkers program was an example. So was a recent bipartisan tax credit for businesses that hired workers who had been unemployed for months. Perhaps the broadest example is a temporary cut in the payroll tax for businesses, which reduces the cost of employing people.
Any of these steps would increase the budget deficit, obviously. But relative to the multitrillion-dollar, Medicare-driven, long-term deficit, a temporary tax cut costing a couple of hundred billion dollars isn't significant. The more pressing problem today, by far, is the weak economy.
The great historical lesson of financial crises is that governments are usually not aggressive enough in responding. That was Japan's mistake in 1990s, Herbert Hoover's in the early 1930s and even Franklin Roosevelt's in the mid-1930s.
In 2008 and 2009, political leaders looked as if they had learned this lesson. In 2010, they seem to have forgotten it.
Sometime in the next four months, Congress will have to decide what to do about Mr. Bush's original tax cuts, because they are set to expire Dec. 31. Most Democrats favor extending the cuts for households making less than $250,000 a year. Republicans want to make all the cuts permanent, including those for households making more than $250,000.
Republicans argue that a permanent cut in tax rates is the best form of stimulus. Allowing any of the Bush cuts to expire, John Boehner, the top House Republican, said in a speech last week laying out the party's economic agenda, is ''a recipe for disaster.''
As theories go, this isn't a bad one. You can certainly imagine how a tax increase on the affluent could hurt the economy or how a tax cut for them would lift growth. Theories aside, though, consider what has actually happened in the last three decades.
Mr. Bush signed his original tax cut in June 2001, when the economy had been losing jobs for four months. It then shed jobs for two more years. In the decade that followed the tax cut, economic growth was slower than in any decade since World War II.
If the goal is short-term stimulus, even Ronald Reagan's much-lauded 1981 tax cut doesn't appear to have worked. After he signed it, the economy lost jobs for 16 straight months. It didn't start gaining jobs until after he had raised taxes, to reduce the deficit, in late 1982.
What explains this pattern? Tax rates matter, but people don't make most decisions based primarily on their marginal tax rates. Mr. Bush's and Mr. Reagan's tax cuts were just not powerful enough to overcome the economic headwinds at the time.
Consumers and executives didn't rush out to spend more money in part because they understood their tax rate would still be lower months or years later. That the Reagan and Bush tax cuts went disproportionately to high-income households, which save more of their income, did not help, either.
In fact, simply sending rebate checks to most households seems to have more punch. If you look at this chart, you can see that consumer spending bounced back in both the second quarter of 2008 (temporarily) and the third quarter of 2009. Those happen to be the quarters when the Treasury Department finished sending the one-time cuts from Bush and Obama.
Based partly on this history, Moody's Analytics estimates that a new rebate would have about three times as large an effect on growth next year as would making all the 2001 tax cuts permanent.
Yet a rebate still isn't the best solution, according to the Moody's analysis or, for that matter, common sense. Some households will surely put their rebate into a savings account or use it to pay down debt.
That is why the ideal solution tries to leverage government dollars with private dollars. The cash-for-clunkers program did precisely this last year, causing a jump in vehicle sales. So did a 2009 tax break for corporate investment, leading to an end-of-year spike in spending.
The tension with such tax cuts is between targeting and simplicity. Targeted ones can avoid showering too much money on households and businesses that were going to spend anyway.
One possibility is an expanded tax credit for new clean energy projects, which is favored by the White House and by at least two Republican senators, Orrin Hatch and Richard Lugar. Another is an expansion of the tax credit for businesses that increase their work force, like the one sponsored by Mr. Hatch and Charles Schumer, the New York Democrat. This time, though, it would not have to be restricted to companies hiring the long-term unemployed.
The disadvantage of these programs is that people have to figure out if they're eligible and then fill out forms. A simpler approach -- but a less targeted one -- would temporarily cut the payroll tax, which finances Social Security and Medicare and is paid by both businesses and workers. By suspending the part that applies to businesses for a few months, Washington could lower the cost of keeping or hiring workers.
Either way, a couple of tax cuts along these lines could make good additions to a bill extending the Bush tax cuts for households making less than $250,000 a year. Economically, the extra cuts would have a bigger impact than an extension of all the Bush cuts. Politically, this kind of bill would force opponents to explain why they instead wanted smaller tax cuts for middle-class families and businesses and a bigger one for the affluent.
Of course, no temporary tax cut will solve the economy's long-run problems. That's a harder project, one that involves upgrading the skills of the work force, slowing the growth of health costs, reducing the deficit, lifting exports, restarting healthy wage growth and, yes, simplifying the tax code.
But we won't make any of those tasks easier by falling into a double-dip recession or enduring months more of halting growth. The aftermath of a financial crisis is usually difficult. It's not yet time to declare victory.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President George W. Bush signed a tax cut into law in 2001. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN JAFFE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) (B5) CHARTS: The Most Bang for the Buck: Some tax cuts and spending plans lift short-term economic growth more than others. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis, via Haver
 Moody's Analytics) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



19 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: In Wisconsin, a Senate Democrat Is Holding Tight

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WEST ALLIS, Wis. -- Senator Russ Feingold says he should not be considered the front-runner in his bid for a fourth term. If that self-appraisal is true, Democrats face a greater risk of losing their majority in the Senate than they believed when summer began.
''Frankly, I love being the underdog,'' Mr. Feingold said. ''Let me have it.''
As the senator talks to voters across Wisconsin, that description is perhaps an exaggeration for an incumbent with a national reputation, but it has become a central part of his pitch. He is not eager to concede that control of the Senate could hinge on his seat -- though it very well could -- but he hopes the warning cry will prompt his loyal Democratic followers to rally to his side in a challenging election year. 
''Clearly if somehow I lost, it would be a sign that we're getting close to the line,'' Mr. Feingold said in an interview on a recent day of campaigning. ''We won't lose, but it is something that is legitimate for me to mention -- this seat could determine things.''
As his predicament suggests, Republicans have a better opportunity to win back the Senate than they had once imagined. Their chances of reaching a majority in the House still remain greater. But as the field of competitive races has expanded in the Senate, Republicans no longer have to win every close contest to capture the 51 seats they would need to take control.
Wisconsin is more divided politically than it is often perceived, given its well-known progressive streak. But Mr. Feingold's own polling -- in line with the judgment of independent analysts -- shows him in a unexpectedly tough race against a neophyte Republican opponent. His challenger has so far spent three times as much as he has, the economy remains lackluster and Mr. Feingold is facing disillusionment with Democratic policies.
Party leaders, who had considered his seat something of a firewall to protect control of the Senate, now see it as a bellwether that could signal whether other once-safe seats are vulnerable.
The main Republican challenger, an Oshkosh millionaire business executive named Ron Johnson, has never run for public office. Yet that may be one of the brightest credentials a candidate can carry these days.
''I would be going to Washington as a citizen legislator,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''I think that's really what our founders had envisioned: somebody who's lived a full life and you take that lifetime of experience and try to apply it to the problems of the nation. Then you go home.''
To win control of the Senate, Republicans need to pick up 10 seats, nearly all of which must come from territory held by Democrats. But there are now enough competitive seats that Republicans could let two opportunities for victory slip away, providing a bit of breathing room for some untested candidates.
''A few months ago, we wouldn't have been able to say that,'' said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, who warns against overconfidence. ''We have more options than we ever expected.''
Democratic leaders know the economy is unlikely to improve enough in the next two months to alter the electoral climate substantially, but they say that Mr. Johnson and other political newcomers, many of whom were not the first choices of the Republican establishment, may not fare well with independent voters.
Mr. Feingold, a tenacious politician who has been on the ballot for state or federal office for 28 years, was not initially considered vulnerable by either party; President Obama carried Wisconsin by 14 points in 2008. But Mr. Feingold said he detected trouble for Democrats shortly after the inauguration as he began making his annual pilgrimage to all 72 counties. ''A conscious decision was made by certain groups to destroy this presidency the minute it started,'' he said.
One of Mr. Feingold's top selling points has always been an independent streak. He opposed the president's decision to expand the war in Afghanistan. He voted against bailing out financial institutions in 2008, and he opposed Wall Street regulation this year, saying the restrictions did not go far enough.
As he stood at the Wisconsin State Fair last month here in West Allis, just outside Milwaukee, his challenge became clear. His head did not turn as a man yelled, ''Russ, in November I hope you're out of a job like the rest of us!'' Some people declined to make eye contact or linger for a handshake, yet several others came over to wish him well.
In an interview, Mr. Feingold became visibly agitated when asked whether running for a fourth term in the Senate made him a career politician and made it difficult to claim to be an underdog or an outsider.
''If the question is, 'Have I chosen a career as a legislator?' the answer is yes. If somebody wants to put a label on it and call it a politician, that's like saying a doctor is a quack or something,'' he said. ''You can use a negative term for it if you want, but to me, public service is an honorable thing if you do it honorably.''
Mr. Johnson, 55, who owns a company that makes plastic packaging material, was drawn to politics last fall when he spoke at a Tea Party rally. But he has not been embraced by all Tea Party organizations in the state, including the Rock River Patriots, some of whose members said they were unimpressed with his knowledge of the Constitution after they held a vetting session with him this summer.
He has pledged to invest at least a share of his personal wealth on the race. So far, he has spent $3.6 million, most of which was dedicated to television spots featuring an upbeat and quirky theme as he talks about ''The Johnson Way.'' Mr. Feingold has spent $1.3 million so far and is scrutinizing Mr. Johnson's business practices, including federal grants his company accepted.
In an interview at a Republican office in Green Bay, where Mr. Johnson introduced himself to party activists and volunteers, he acknowledged facing a steep learning curve in becoming a candidate. In the span of a few weeks, he stumbled over whether gun owners should be required to license their weapons and he sought to explain what he meant when he compared Social Security to a Ponzi scheme.
''I'm used to being in business, when you have a half-hour and you can hash things out, you can wax philosophical about things,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''It's pretty hard to do in a political campaign when someone says, 'What's your position on this?' And you get a microphone thrown in your mouth. That's difficult.''
Mr. Feingold has assertively seized on each verbal miscue. Yet he has less control over the environment. Asked whether Democrats were sufficiently motivated about the election, he said, ''They're getting there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Russ Feingold, who spoke Tuesday at the American Legion National Convention in Milwaukee, faces a tight race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ron Johnson, a Republican. GRAPHIC: How Republicans Could Win the Senate 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (59%)

PERSON: RUSS FEINGOLD (90%); RON JOHNSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (72%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



20 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Not-So-Magic Carpet Ride

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
If we had wanted earth tones in the Oval Office, we would have elected Al Gore.
(Oh, yeah, we did.)
On the night we were reminded that George W. Bush ended up in the White House and heedlessly, needlessly started the war with Iraq, President Obama did his Mission Relinquished address from his redecorated man cave.
The Oval Office was done over by the chichi decorator Michael Smith, who was previously paid $800,000 for his part in refurnishing the lair of the former Merrill Lynch C.E.O. John Thain (a $1.2 million project featuring the notorious $35,000 antique cabinet, or commode). 
The Oval Office, the classiest, most powerful place on earth, is now suffused with browns and beiges and leather and resembles an upscale hotel conference room or a '70s conversation pit with a boxy coffee table that even some Obama aides find ugly.
It almost made me long for the Technicolor Belle Watling swagging and swathing style of the Clintons' Little Rock decorator, Kaki Hockersmith.
The recession redo, paid for by the nonprofit White House Historical Association, was the latest tone-deaf move by a White House that was supposed to excel at connection and communication. Message: I care, but not enough to stop the fancy vacations and posh renovations.
As Obama himself said in February 2009 when he released his first budget: ''There are times where you can afford to redecorate your house, and there are times where you need to focus on rebuilding the foundation.''
It might have been wise, given America's slough of despond, to hark back to a time when presidents just went to work and took their office pretty much as they found it, without the need to make a personal statement. As the former White House curator Rex Scouten once told me, in the era from Taft to Truman, the green rug in the president's office was changed only once, when it wore out, to a new green rug.
The new cream-of-wheat-colored rug is made of 25 percent recycled wool and features 100 percent recycled quotes around the border that have significance for President Obama. (Which means, of course, that the next chief executive will want to carpet copy-edit and put his or her own special quotes on the Oval rug. If the Tea Party triumphs, it might be ''Don't Tread on Me.'' If Sarah Palin ascends, it will no doubt be a mama grizzly bear rug, personally bagged by her.)
The quotations chosen by Obama include F.D.R.'s ''The only thing we have to fear is fear itself''; Martin Luther King Jr.'s ''The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice''; Lincoln's ''Government of the people, by the people, for the people''; J.F.K.'s ''No problem of human destiny is beyond human beings''; and Teddy Roosevelt's ''The welfare of each of us is dependent fundamentally upon the welfare of all of us.''
Given the cunning tableau created on the Mall over the weekend by Glenn Beck and Palin, in their artful and frightening mix of theology and Tea Party ideology, the president might be better served by a carpet that prompts him to get his groove back.
The first thing the once inspirational orator should embroider around the rug, the maxim that sums up so much of what's wrong with the administration now, is the immortal line from ''Cool Hand Luke'': ''What we've got here is failure to communicate.''
Sidetracked by the mosque fight and now admirably plunging into brokering a Middle East peace, Obama clearly needs a reminder about what really counts as the Democrats prepare to get their clocks cleaned. The rug should quote James Carville's famous admonition: ''It's the economy, stupid!''
There should be a special message for John Boehner, the Republican leader who has been strutting around as the Speaker-in-Waiting and who led the Republicans on Tuesday in their inane effort to deny Obama credit for anything by spending the day reminding people that it was W.'s war. The president should emblazon Kathleen Turner's line from ''Body Heat'': ''You're not too smart, are you? I like that in a man.''
Obama needs his rug to remind him to toughen up. When the self-styled Republican ''Young Guns'' -- Eric Cantor, Paul Ryan and Kevin McCarthy -- pull their wacky ideas out of their policy holsters, they should have to look down and read the warning from Al ''Scarface'' Pacino about his machine gun: ''Say hello to my little friend.''
While he's at it, the president who naively yearned for unanimity when he had a majority might put this legend around the border of his carpet: ''Post-partisanship doesn't work with Mitch McConnell.''
And for all of us who have that sinking feeling that the economic rug is being pulled out from under us, the president might stitch in the famous warning from ''Jaws'': ''We're going to need a bigger boat.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); BUDGETS (75%); IRAQ WAR (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (68%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); AL GORE (73%); SARAH PALIN (58%); JOHN THAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



21 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: President's Office Takes On New Neutral Tones, but Keeps Its Familiar Shape

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Oval Office has gotten a makeover.
When President Obama addressed the nation about Iraq on Tuesday evening, he did so from newly redecorated surroundings. The look is angular and modern -- it evokes the feel of a den -- and tends toward neutral hues of browns and taupe, rather than the gold and yellow tones favored by President George W. Bush. 
Gone is the sunburst rug Mr. Bush loved so much, which was designed by his wife, Laura, and which he often said expressed his spirit of optimism.
In the rug's place is a muted, mostly wheat and cream carpet featuring the presidential seal in the center and ringed with five quotations selected by Mr. Obama -- four from former presidents (Lincoln, Kennedy and the Roosevelts) and one from the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Mr. Bush's yellow brocade sofas have been replaced with two custom-made couches of brown cotton that looks like velvet, woven with red, white and blue threads.
The couches face a boxy coffee table made from American walnut and mica, with a fruit bowl -- not flowers -- as its centerpiece. Among the couch pillows, a lone navy blue pillow pulls in the blue from some new ceramic table lamps.
There is new wallpaper, gold and yellow striped. The portraits of Lincoln and Washington have remained in their places, as has the grandfather clock.
Mr. Obama reupholstered Mr. Bush's two mahogany chairs in caramel-colored leather and kept the desk, called the Resolute, that every chief executive since President Rutherford B. Hayes -- except Presidents Johnson, Nixon and Ford -- has used, though some used it in the White House residence.
The makeover was not done at taxpayer expense. The White House said costs were covered by the nonprofit White House Historical Association, through a contribution from the committee that paid for Mr. Obama's inauguration.
The administration will not disclose how much the redesign cost, except to say the price was ''in line with'' what Mr. Obama's two most recent predecessors had spent. (President Bill Clinton's Oval Office had a bright blue rug and couches striped in candy cane white and red.)
Still, given the hard economic times facing the nation, Mr. Obama is bound to face questions, chief among them, Why now?
When he arrived for work at the White House in January of last year, the president said he thought the office was fine and saw no need for new furnishings.
And when he unveiled his budget the next month, Mr. Obama cautioned that the government would have to make hard choices about spending.
''There are times where you can afford to redecorate your house,'' the president said then, ''and there are times where you need to focus on rebuilding its foundation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Oval Office in late 2009, left, and on Tuesday. Gone are the gold and yellow tones and the sunburst rug
the desk and the grandfather clock are the same. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); BUDGETS (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



22 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Cleaner Cars, A to D

 BODY:
The Obama administration has proposed new stickers for cars and light trucks that will make it easier to see whether you are buying a fuel-efficient one or a guzzler, and how much it contributes to global warming. The stickers are a symbol of how far this country has come in providing a wider range of environmentally responsible choices to help ensure cleaner air and a healthier planet. 
The present labels, created three decades ago, display fuel economy estimates for city and highway driving. The administration is offering two possible variants, the winner to be chosen after a public comment period.
Both would include the traditional miles-per-gallon metric plus an estimate of the vehicle's greenhouse gas emissions, expressed in terms of grams per mile, as well as an estimate of annual fuel costs. One would assign a letter grade for fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions, ranging from A+ to D. The other would not, but both systems would provide enough information for consumers to make sound choices.
This achievement took 10 years, moving along several tracks. It began with a petition asking the Environmental Protection Agency to use its authority under the Clean Air Act to set vehicle standards for emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants. First California, then a number of other states, joined the effort. In 2007, after the Bush administration balked, the Supreme Court effectively ordered the federal government to regulate greenhouse gases from vehicles.
Two years later, President Obama announced a historic agreement combining the first major increase in fuel efficiency standards in 30 years (to a fleetwide average of 34.1 m.p.g. by 2016) with the first limits on greenhouse gas emissions. There is more to come. The new standards cover the model years 2012 to 2016. Within the next couple of years, Mr. Obama will propose even stricter standards for the model years 2017 to 2025.
By then we could be looking at cars that get 60 miles per gallon -- with new stickers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); PETITIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



23 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Obama Declares an End To Iraq Combat Mission

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Carl Hulse and Mark Mazzetti contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama declared an end on Tuesday to the seven-year American combat mission in Iraq, saying that the United States has met its responsibility to that country and that it is now time to turn to pressing problems at home.
In a prime-time address from the Oval Office, Mr. Obama balanced praise for the troops who fought and died in Iraq with his conviction that getting into the conflict had been a mistake in the first place. But he also used the moment to emphasize that he sees his primary job as addressing the weak economy and other domestic issues -- and to make clear that he intends to begin disengaging from the war in Afghanistan next summer.
''We have sent our young men and women to make enormous sacrifices in Iraq, and spent vast resources abroad at a time of tight budgets at home,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Through this remarkable chapter in the history of the United States and Iraq, we have met our responsibility. Now, it's time to turn the page.'' 
Seeking to temper partisan feelings over the war on a day when Republicans pointed out that Mr. Obama had opposed the troop surge generally credited with helping to bring Iraq a measure of stability, the president offered some praise for his predecessor, George W. Bush. Mr. Obama acknowledged their disagreement over Iraq but said that no one could doubt Mr. Bush's ''support for our troops, or his love of country and commitment to our security.''
Mr. Obama spoke for about 18 minutes, saying that violence would continue in Iraq and that the United States would continue to play a key role in nurturing a stable democracy there. He celebrated America's fighting forces as ''the steel in our ship of state,'' and pledged not to waver in the fight against Al Qaeda.
But he suggested that he sees his role in addressing domestic issues as dominant, saying that it would be difficult to get the economy rolling again but that doing so was ''our central mission as a people, and my central responsibility as president.''
With his party facing the prospect of losing control of Congress in this fall's elections and his own poll numbers depressed in large part because of the lackluster economy and still-high unemployment, he said the nation's perseverance in Iraq must be matched by determination to address problems at home.
Over the last decade, ''we have spent over a trillion dollars at war, often financed by borrowing from overseas,'' he said. ''And so at this moment, as we wind down the war in Iraq, we must tackle those challenges at home with as much energy and grit and sense of common purpose as our men and women in uniform who have served abroad.''
Mr. Obama acknowledged a war fatigue among Americans who have called into question his focus on the Afghanistan war, now approaching its 10th year. He said that American forces in Afghanistan ''will be in place for a limited time'' to give Afghans the chance to build their government and armed forces.
''But, as was the case in Iraq, we cannot do for Afghans what they must ultimately do for themselves,'' the president said. He reiterated that next July he would begin transferring responsibility for security to Afghans, at a pace to be determined by conditions.
''But make no mistake: this transition will begin, because open-ended war serves neither our interests nor the Afghan people's,'' he said.
This was no iconic end-of-war moment with photos of soldiers kissing nurses in Times Square or victory parades down America's Main Streets.
Instead, in the days leading to the Tuesday night deadline for the withdrawal of American combat troops, it has appeared as if administration officials and the American military were the only ones marking the end of this country's combat foray into Iraq. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, are all in Baghdad for the official ceremony on Wednesday.
The very sight of Mr. Obama addressing Americans from the Oval Office -- from the same desk where Mr. Bush announced the beginning of the conflict -- shows the distance traveled since the Iraq war began. On the night of March 20, 2003, when the Army's Third Infantry Division first rolled over the border from Kuwait into Iraq, Mr. Obama was a state senator in Illinois.
Mr. Bush was at the height of his popularity, and the perception at home and in many places abroad was that America could achieve its national security goals primarily through military power. One of the biggest fears among the American troops in the convoy pouring into Iraq that night -- every one of them suited in gas masks and wearing biohazard suits -- was that the man they came to topple might unleash a chemical weapons attack.
Seven years and five months later, the biggest fears of American soldiers revolve around the primitive, basic, homemade bombs and old explosives in Afghanistan that were left over from the Soviet invasion. In Iraq, what was perceived as a threat from a powerful dictator, Saddam Hussein, has dissolved into the worry that as United States troops pull out they are leaving behind an unstable and weak government that could be influenced by Iran.
On Tuesday, a senior intelligence official said that Iran continues to supply militant groups in Iraq with weapons, training and equipment.
''Much has changed since that night,'' when Mr. Bush announced the war in Iraq, Mr. Obama said. ''A war to disarm a state became a fight against an insurgency. Terrorism and sectarian warfare threatened to tear Iraq apart. Thousands of Americans gave their lives; tens of thousands have been wounded. Our relations abroad were strained. Our unity at home was tested.''
The withdrawal of combat forces represents a significant milestone after the war that toppled Mr. Hussein, touched off waves of sectarian strife and claimed the lives of more than 4,400 American soldiers and more than 70,000 Iraqis, according to United States and Iraqi government figures.
''Operation Iraqi Freedom is over,'' Mr. Obama said, using the military name for the mission, ''and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.''
As Mr. Obama prepared to observe the end of one phase of the war, he called Mr. Bush from Air Force One, as he was en route to Fort Bliss in Texas to meet with American troops home from Iraq.
The two spoke ''just for a few moments,'' Ben Rhodes, deputy national security adviser for strategic communications, told reporters aboard the plane, declining to give any additional details.
American troops reached Mr. Obama's goal for the drawdown early -- last week Gen. Ray Odierno, the American commander in Iraq, said that the number of troops had dropped to 49,700, roughly the number that would stay through next summer.
That is less than a third of the number of troops in Iraq during the surge in 2007. Under an agreement between Iraq and the United States, the remaining troops are to leave by the end of 2011, though some Iraqi and American officials say they think that the agreement may be renegotiated to allow for a longer American military presence.
The remaining ''advise and assist'' brigades will officially concentrate on supporting and training Iraqi security forces, protecting American personnel and facilities, and mounting counterterrorism operations.
Still, as Mr. Obama himself acknowledged Tuesday, the milestone came with all of the ambiguity and messiness that accompanied the war itself.
A political impasse, in place since March elections, has left Iraq without a permanent government just as the government in Baghdad was supposed to be asserting more control.
Republican critics of the president were quick to point out Tuesday that Mr. Obama opposed the troop surge that they credit for decreased violence in Iraq.
''Some leaders who opposed, criticized, and fought tooth-and-nail to stop the surge strategy now proudly claim credit for the results,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, told veterans at the national convention of the American Legion in Milwaukee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama visited Fort Bliss in Texas on Tuesday. On his way there, he spoke with former President George W. Bush. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 An Iraqi police officer in Baghdad. While American officials say Iraqi security forces are ready for a bigger role, they have been plagued by bombings and shootings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALID MOHAMMED/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



24 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: The War in Iraq

 BODY:
We were glad to see President Obama go to Fort Bliss on Tuesday before his Oval Office speech on Iraq, to thank those Americans who most shouldered the burdens of a tragic, pointless war. One of the few rays of light in the conflict has been the distance America has come since Vietnam, when blameless soldiers were scorned for decisions made by politicians.
President George W. Bush tried to make Iraq an invisible, seemingly cost-free war. He refused to attend soldiers' funerals and hid their returning coffins from the public. So it was fitting that Mr. Obama, who has improved veterans' health care and made the Pentagon budget more rational, paid tribute to them. 
''At every turn, America's men and women in uniform have served with courage and resolve,'' he said on Tuesday night. He added: ''There were patriots who supported this war, and patriots who opposed it. And all of us are united in appreciation for our servicemen and women, and our hope for Iraq's future.''
The speech also made us reflect on how little Mr. Bush accomplished by needlessly invading Iraq in March 2003 -- and then ludicrously declaring victory two months later.
Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction proved to be Bush administration propaganda. The war has not created a new era of democracy in the Middle East -- or in Iraq for that matter. There are stirrings of democratic politics in Iraq that give us hope. But there is no government six months after national elections.
In many ways, the war made Americans less safe, creating a new organization of terrorists and diverting the nation's military resources and political will from Afghanistan. Deprived of its main adversary, a strong Iraq, Iran was left freer to pursue its nuclear program, to direct and finance extremist groups and to meddle in Iraq.
Mr. Obama graciously said it was time to put disagreements over Iraq behind us, but it is important not to forget how much damage Mr. Bush caused by misleading Americans about exotic weapons, about American troops being greeted with open arms, about creating a model democracy in Baghdad.
That is why it was so important that Mr. Obama candidly said the United States is not free of this conflict; American troops will see more bloodshed. We hope he follows through on his vow to work with Iraq's government after the withdrawal of combat troops.
There was no victory to declare last night, and Mr. Obama was right not to try. If victory was ever possible in this war, it has not been won, and America still faces the daunting challenges of the other war, in Afghanistan.
Mr. Obama, addressing those who either believe that he is not committed to the fight in Afghanistan or believe that he will not leave, said Americans should ''make no mistake'' -- he will stick to his plan to begin withdrawing troops next August. He still needs to clearly explain, and soon, how he will ''disrupt, dismantle and defeat Al Qaeda'' and meet that timetable.
As we heard Mr. Obama speak from his desk with his usual calm clarity and eloquence, it made us wish we heard more from him on many issues. We are puzzled about why he talks to Americans directly so rarely and with seeming reluctance. This was only his second Oval Office address in more than 19 months of crisis upon crisis. The country particularly needs to hear more from Mr. Obama about what he rightly called the most urgent task -- ''to restore our economy and put the millions of Americans who have lost their jobs back to work.''
For this day, it was worth dwelling on this milestone in Iraq and on some grim numbers: more than 4,400 Americans dead and some 35,000 wounded, many with lost limbs. And on one number that American politicians are loath to mention: at least 100,000 Iraqis dead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); TERRORISM (70%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



25 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Blocks Sale of Nan Shan, an A.I.G. Unit

BYLINE: By CHRIS V. NICHOLSON

 BODY:
The American International Group was dealt another setback in its efforts to raise money after Taiwan's financial regulator said on Tuesday that it would block the $2.15 billion sale of Nan Shan, its life insurance unit on the island. 
A.I.G., the American insurance conglomerate, is trying to sell off businesses to repay the United States government some of the $182 billion used to save it from collapse during the financial crisis.
A.I.G. announced last October that it would sell its 97.57 percent stake in Nan Shan to a consortium of two investment companies, Primus Financial Holdings and China Strategic Holdings, the first based in Hong Kong and the second listed there.
But Taiwanese authorities say they object to what they see as Primus's ties to China. Mainland Chinese companies cannot acquire financial firms on the island under Taiwan law. In June, the companies agreed to extend until mid-October the deadline to complete the deal.
Susan Chu, chief ratings officer at Taiwan Ratings, a subsidiary of Standard & Poor's, said the decision was unsurprising and indicated no change in regulatory behavior or the competitive field for life insurance in Taiwan.
''They want a major shareholder with life insurance practice,'' she said, referring to the regulators, adding that her firm did not have a rating on Nan Shan.
Primus was founded last year by the former Citigroup banker Robert Morse. His partner in the consortium is China Strategic Holdings, better known for making and trading batteries than running insurance companies.
A.I.G. earlier failed to sell American International Assurance, another Asian life insurance unit, to Prudential of Britain.
Nan Shan has the largest book value of any Taiwan life insurance company, A.I.G. said, and serves about four million policyholders through 4,000 employees.
Taiwan imposes restrictions on investments in industries that it deems strategic to national security, including the life insurance sector, and all acquisitions in those sectors by foreigners require official approval.
Primus declined to comment, and A.I.G. was not immediately available for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); APPROVALS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); TAIWAN LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL ASSURANCE CO LTD (58%); CHINA STRATEGIC HOLDINGS LTD (57%); ASIAN LIFE INSURANCE CO LTD (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 2833 (TAIEX) (84%); 1299 (HKSE) (58%); 0235 (HKSE) (57%); ALICL (NEP) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



26 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
4 ISRAELI SETTLERS KILLED
In Eve of Peace Talks
The killing of four Israeli settlers, including a pregnant woman, on the West Bank, rattled Israeli and Palestinian leaders on the eve of peace talks in Washington and underscored the disruptive role that the issue of Jewish settlements could play in the already fragile negotiations. PAGE A4
PLANNING NIGERIAN ELECTION
A certain amount of chaos is an ordering principle in Nigeria. But this year, Vice Chancellor Attahiru Jega of Bayero University, Kano, a calm academic, suspected of neither partisanship nor corruption, has been assigned to organize the country's presidential election, whenever in the coming months it may occur. PAGE A4 
WARNINGS ON CONGO RAPES
According to an internal United Nations e-mail and a humanitarian bulletin, United Nations officials had been warned about rapes occurring in a remote Congolese area much earlier than officials originally said. PAGE A7
National
DETAINED MEN ARE THOUGHT TO HAVE NO TERRORISM TIES
American law enforcement officials said that they believed that two Yemeni men detained in Amsterdam after unusual items were found in their luggage had no connection to terrorism, though they remained in Dutch custody and investigators continued to review the case. PAGE A14
New York
LONG SHOT'S ALBANY BID
Rides a Wave of Anger
Carl P. Paladino, a brusque real estate developer from Buffalo, entered the governor's race five months ago as a long-shot Republican with Tea Party leanings. But in recent weeks, Mr. Paladino's campaign has gained strength by appealing to angry voters. PAGE A19
Hottest Summer on Record A17
Business
AS NEW G.M. RECOVERS,
Old G.M Is Sold for Parts
A revitalized General Motors has recently reported $1.3 billion in quarterly earnings, paraded out a new chief executive and filed an initial public offering that seeks to pay back a portion of its approximately $60 billion in government loans. But the old G.M. -- a collection of shuttered auto plants, vacant offices and toxic industrial sites -- is one step closer to extinction. PAGE B1
CRISIS COMMISSION'S WOES
The commission appointed by Congress to examine the causes of the financial crisis has been hampered by an exodus of senior employees and by internal disagreements that could hinder its ability to produce a report that the entire commission could support. PAGE B1
TAX CUTS THAT COULD MATTER
The economy is struggling mightily, and the best hope for a short-term economic plan that can win bipartisan support is a tax cut -- and not the permanent extension of George W. Bush's tax cuts, which have been dominating the debate. PAGE B1
Sports
SOCCER COACH'S RETURN
Is Right Move for U.S. Team
The rising expectations for United States soccer did not get in the way of a good choice of a coach for the next four years: Bob Bradley, the team's coach for the past four years. George Vecsey, Sports of The Times. PAGE B10
Rivals Off the Court, and On B11
Arts
GROOMING HOME COOKS,
And a Reality Franchise
Gordon Ramsay, the brusque British chef and host of two reality shows on Fox, has added a third competition this summer, ''MasterChef,'' for amateurs who have dreams of fine-dining careers. The show has been a hit, and the network is on the verge of ordering a second season. PAGE C1
Movie Review: 'The American' c1
Dining
RESTAURATEUR WHO USES
The Sea as His Supermarket
Steve Johnson , the chef and owner of Rendezvous, an unpretentious, solidly excellent restaurant in Cambridge, Mass., keeps a tiny 1971 Sea Rover houseboat named Blue Sky moored on the South Shore there. Once a week, he races down to the skiff and his cooking becomes elemental, centered on the ingredients that he is literally awash in. PAGE D1
Jewish Recipes Via Africa D2
Obituaries
LAURENT FIGNON, 50
One of France's greatest and most enigmatic cyclists, he won the Tour de Francetwice before losing in 1989 to the American Greg LeMond in the race's closest finish. PAGE A16
Op-ed
MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A21
THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A21
New York
LONG SHOT'S ALBANY BID
Rides a Wave of Anger
Carl P. Paladino, a brusque real estate developer from Buffalo, entered the governor's race five months ago as a long-shot Republican with Tea Party leanings. But in recent weeks, Mr. Paladino's campaign has gained strength by appealing to angry voters. PAGE A19
Hottest Summer on Record A17
Business
AS NEW G.M. RECOVERS,
Old G.M Is Sold for Parts
A revitalized General Motors has recently reported $1.3 billion in quarterly earnings, paraded out a new chief executive and filed an initial public offering that seeks to pay back a portion of its approximately $60 billion in government loans. But the old G.M. -- a collection of shuttered auto plants, vacant offices and toxic industrial sites -- is one step closer to extinction. PAGE B1
CRISIS COMMISSION'S WOES
The commission appointed by Congress to examine the causes of the financial crisis has been hampered by an exodus of senior employees and by internal disagreements that could hinder its ability to produce a report that the entire commission could support. PAGE B1
TAX CUTS THAT COULD MATTER
The economy is struggling mightily, and the best hope for a short-term economic plan that can win bipartisan support is a tax cut -- and not the permanent extension of George W. Bush's tax cuts, which have been dominating the debate. PAGE B1
Sports
SOCCER COACH'S RETURN
Is Right Move for U.S. Team
The rising expectations for United States soccer did not get in the way of a good choice of a coach for the next four years: Bob Bradley, the team's coach for the past four years. George Vecsey, Sports of The Times. PAGE B10
Rivals Off the Court, and On B11
Arts
GROOMING HOME COOKS,
And a Reality Franchise
Gordon Ramsay, the brusque British chef and host of two reality shows on Fox, has added a third competition this summer, ''MasterChef,'' for amateurs who have dreams of fine-dining careers. The show has been a hit, and the network is on the verge of ordering a second season. PAGE C1
Movie Review: 'The American' c1
Dining
RESTAURATEUR WHO USES
The Sea as His Supermarket
Steve Johnson , the chef and owner of Rendezvous, an unpretentious, solidly excellent restaurant in Cambridge, Mass., keeps a tiny 1971 Sea Rover houseboat named Blue Sky moored on the South Shore there. Once a week, he races down to the skiff and his cooking becomes elemental, centered on the ingredients that he is literally awash in. PAGE D1
Jewish Recipes Via Africa D2
Obituaries
LAURENT FIGNON, 50
One of France's greatest and most enigmatic cyclists, he won the Tour de Francetwice before losing in 1989 to the American Greg LeMond in the race's closest finish. PAGE A16
Op-ed
MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A21
THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (63%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (62%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (62%); SOCCER (61%); GOVERNORS (58%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



27 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: India's Economy Accelerated in Quarter

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India -- In contrast to the slowing growth and continued high unemployment among many developed countries, India said Tuesday that its economy was accelerating.
Sharp increases in manufacturing, mining and services helped India grow at a rate of 8.8 percent in the three months that ended in June, compared with the same period a year earlier. It was its fastest pace in more than two years. The economy grew at a rate of 8.6 percent in the quarter that ended in March.
Economists said the new data reflected the strength of India's recovery from the global financial crisis, but they added that the economy might not be able to keep up the pace in coming months. The growth rates of industrial production and exports, for instance, have begun to fall. India, along with China, is still considered a developing economy. 
Indian leaders have said they would like to push the economy's growth rate up to 9 percent -- a pace it achieved a couple of years ago -- and eventually to 10 percent. India needs faster growth to alleviate poverty and increase job opportunities for a young population; about half the Indian people are 25 or younger.
But economists say that those higher growth rates will be hard to achieve until India invests much more in its infrastructure and further loosens government control over the economy. Moreover, a slowdown in the rest of the world could hurt India's growth by reducing the flow of foreign investment into the country and reducing demand for its exports.
''This was the quarter in which you would have seen the fastest year-on-year number for this year,'' said Tushar Poddar, an economist with Goldman Sachs in Mumbai who projected that India would grow at a rate of 8.2 percent during the 2010-11 fiscal year, which started in April. ''I don't think the 9 percent is coming anytime soon.''
The Indian government estimates the economy could grow as much as 8.75 percent this year, and the International Monetary Fund says growth could hit 9.4 percent.
Like China, India has rebounded relatively quickly from the global recession. But the two countries have done so differently. Domestic consumption, which is not as big a component of the Chinese economy, has been crucial in the revival of the Indian economy.
Car sales in India, for instance, climbed 38 percent in July, and large carmakers like Ford, Nissan and Volkswagen are significantly expanding production capacity in the country.
Other foreign companies are also looking to tap India as it spends more. Harley-Davidson, the motorcycle maker, and California Pizza Kitchen, the American restaurant chain, recently opened their first Indian outlets in Mumbai.
This year, strong monsoon rains have helped bolster the Indian agricultural sector, which sustains more than half of its 1.2 billion people, though it makes up just 16 percent of the economy. Agriculture grew at a pace of 2.8 percent in the latest quarter, up from 1.9 percent a year earlier, when several parts of the country suffered a drought.
Optimism about the economy and strong corporate profit growth have helped push the Indian stock market to its highest level in two years. On Tuesday, however, the country's benchmark stock indexes were down modestly.
But stronger growth has also helped stoke inflation, especially for food, energy and other essential items. Wholesale prices have been climbing at an annual rate of about 10 percent in recent months.
The Reserve Bank of India has raised its benchmark interest rates three times so far this year in response to higher inflation, and officials have indicated that further increases might be needed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); STATISTICS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (72%); MOTORCYCLES (68%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); RESTAURANTS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); AGRICULTURE (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); HARLEY-DAVIDSON INC (60%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); HOG (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



28 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Unaffordable Housing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Your Home as Sure Nest Egg? That Era Is Over, Analysts Say'' (front page, Aug. 23): 
In evaluating the prospects for housing, the article mentions that omnipresent factor -- location, location, location. Another decisive factor in the future pricing of housing, especially housing for those of middle income, is what is happening to the distribution of income.
If inequality of income remains at its current level, never mind increases, Americans will be less able to buy homes in the future than they were in the past, even ignoring the financial shenanigans of the last few years.
This is a foreboding factor for long-term housing prices and yet another reason the era of a house as nest egg may be ending.
David Mermelstein New York, Aug. 23, 2010
The writer is professor emeritus of economics at Polytechnic Institute of New York University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); HOME PRICES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



29 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Internal Dissent and Staff Losses May Hurt Financial Crisis Panel

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and ERIC DASH; Sewell Chan reported from Washington, and Eric Dash from New York. Barclay Walsh contributed research.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With less than four months left to complete its work, the group appointed by Congress to examine the causes of the financial crisis has been hampered by an exodus of senior employees and by internal disagreements that could hinder its ability to produce a report the entire commission could support.
The group, the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, is expected to report to the nation by Dec. 15 on the causes of the 2008 financial debacle. It is investigating 22 factors, including Asian savings, regulatory failings in the United States, executive pay and credit ratings. 
Modeled in part on the 9/11 Commission and in part on the Pecora hearings, which the Senate convened to investigate the sources of the Great Depression, the commission hopes to produce a detailed report that will influence future policy making. It has held 12 days of hearings, interviewed more than 500 witnesses and pored over hundreds of thousands of pages of documents.
But as the commission prepares for its final round of public hearings on Capitol Hill this week -- including appearances by Richard S. Fuld Jr., the former chief executive of Lehman Brothers, on Wednesday, and Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, on Thursday -- it faces substantial obstacles.
In May, the commission's executive director was moved aside and succeeded by an economist from the Fed, a decision that drew criticism since the central bank is an object of the investigation because of its leading role in handling the crisis. In addition, five of the commission's 14 senior staff members have resigned, including Matt Cooper, a journalist who was drafting the report.
Moreover, the commission's chairman, Phil Angelides, and vice chairman, Bill Thomas, are finding it challenging to maintain support from all eight other commissioners. While squabbling within the panel has not broken into open dissent, several commissioners are divided over how much to blame specific individuals and banks, how and when to release the documents it has gathered and whether to make available testimony of government officials and bank executives it has interviewed privately.
In a joint interview by phone on Tuesday, Mr. Angelides, a Democrat, and Mr. Thomas, a Republican, said that the turnover's effects had been exaggerated and that they were optimistic about a consensus.
''We're doing our very best, and we will do our level best,'' said Mr. Angelides. He said he had spoken recently with Thomas H. Kean, the former New Jersey governor who led the 9/11 Commission, which produced an acclaimed report that was a surprise best seller. ''Several weeks out, they doubted whether they would get any kind of agreement on anything,'' Mr. Angelides said.
Mr. Thomas said that the law establishing the commission did not mandate unanimity, but ''it's always desirable,'' he said.
Created in May 2009, the commission got off to a slow start. Congressional leaders named the 10 members that July, and the commission met for the first time last September. Not until December did the commission name 14 senior staff members.
The departures also include: Martin T. Biegelman, a veteran corporate fraud investigator; Bradley J. Bondi, a lawyer who returned to the Securities and Exchange Commission; Bartly A. Dzivi, a banking lawyer; and Beneva C. Schulte, who had been in charge of communications.
Mr. Angelides, a former California state treasurer who unsuccessfully challenged Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's re-election campaign in 2006, said the departures had not delayed the commission's work. ''It's difficult in your first year of operation to assemble a new team,'' he said. ''You always have a lot of dynamism, people coming and going.''
On July 27, after Congress added $1.8 million to the panel's initial budget of $8 million, Darrell Issa of California, the top Republican on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, asked for details of its staff and budget.
Mr. Issa noted the turnover and questioned the decision to appoint Wendy M. Edelberg, an economist on loan from the Fed, as executive director. She replaced J. Thomas Greene, who had worked in the California attorney general's office.
Another top staff member, Gregory H. Feldberg, who replaced Ms. Edelberg as research director after she was promoted, is also on loan from the Fed. He is the son of Chester B. Feldberg, one of three trustees overseeing the government's majority stake in the American International Group, the giant insurer that collapsed in 2008.
The father, known as Chet, is a former chairman of Barclays America and before that was in charge of bank supervision and regulation at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which critics say failed to regulate banks and then helped bail them out.
Mr. Issa said the appointments of Ms. Edelberg and Mr. Feldberg raised the appearance of conflicts of interest -- a claim Mr. Angelides and Mr. Thomas denied.
''Wendy is in the position she's in because she's bright, talented, has an economics degree,'' Mr. Thomas said, adding that she ''knows how to work with bright, strong ego-driven people as well'' because she worked with the Bush and Obama White Houses.
Mr. Angelides called Gregory Feldberg ''a wonderful, talented guy'' and added: ''He signed an ethics agreement and a confidentiality agreement and has recused himself from any matters relating to A.I.G.''
Borrowing employees from other agencies, Mr. Thomas said, was the only way to get people who ''had to be up to speed'' on complex financial matters.
In a letter on Aug. 9 to Mr. Issa, Mr. Angelides said that the commission was ''devoting all our time, energy and resources'' to the report, and that the $1.8 million would be used for ''engaging additional investigators, researchers and report writers, and expanding our computerized document analysis resources.'' (In comparison, the 9/11 Commission had a $15 million budget.)
Mr. Angelides called the criticisms ''silly, stupid Washington stuff,'' adding: ''I don't know what Mr. Issa's agenda is, but I can tell you what ours is.''
The commission will also have field hearings this month in Bakersfield, Calif., Las Vegas, Miami and Sacramento.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 2, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about internal dissent and staff losses at the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission gave an incorrect first initial for the commission's first executive director in some editions. He is J. -- not B. -- Thomas Greene.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Phil Angelides of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission will lead hearings on Wednesday and Thursday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FOLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TESTIMONY (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); WRITERS (64%); GOVERNORS (55%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (55%); BEN BERNANKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



30 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Senator Concedes Alaska Primary Defeat

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
ANCHORAGE -- Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska conceded late Tuesday in her Republican primary race against Joe Miller, a lawyer from Fairbanks who was backed by Tea Party activists, Sarah Palin and other conservatives.
Mr. Miller shocked the political establishment here and in Washington last week when he emerged with a narrow lead, 1,668 votes, after the primary vote, on Aug. 24. His victory makes him the presumed favorite to win the Senate seat from this heavily Republican state.
Mr. Miller, who has proposed drastic cuts in federal spending, had trailed badly in local polls in the weeks before the election but benefited from a last-minute flood of advertisements, mailings and automated calls casting Ms. Murkowski as a Democrat in disguise. An abortion-related ballot measure also brought conservatives to the polls. 
Many people said Ms. Murkowski's failure to respond aggressively to Mr. Miller's attacks, including some that distorted her voting record, had played an important role in her defeat. But she suggested on Tuesday that she had no regrets.
''I'm so proud of the campaign that we conducted,'' she told reporters at her campaign headquarters here as dozens of friends and family members surrounded her and cheered. ''It was honest. It was upright. It was energetic. It was what a campaign in Alaska should be.''
''We stayed on the high road,'' Ms. Murkowski said. ''We talked about how we move the state of Alaska forward.''
Her concession followed the counting of about 17,000 additional ballots in the race on Tuesday, which left Mr. Miller with a lead of 1,630 votes out of about 104,000 cast. Several thousand more votes were to be counted on Friday, but the trend suggested Ms. Murkowski would not gain enough ground to win.
''Based on where we are right now, I don't see a scenario where the primary will turn out in my favor,'' she said.
At one point on Tuesday, Mr. Miller's lead narrowed to 1,210 votes, with several thousand votes still outstanding from Southeast Alaska, a stronghold for Ms. Murkowski.
''It should break pretty heavily our way -- hopefully, really heavy,'' John Bitney, Ms. Murkowski's campaign manager, said of the region at one point.
That did not happen.
Mr. Miller's victory surprised even many of his own supporters. Polls had showed Ms. Murkowski with a comfortable lead throughout the spring and summer.
Yet many voters had mixed feelings about her because she supports abortion rights and has voted for several Obama administration measures. Many voters also disliked the fact that she was initially appointed to her seat in 2002 by her father, Frank H. Murkowski, when he was governor.
Still, the final rush of campaigning on behalf of Mr. Miller startled many people.
Janet Kincaid, a longtime friend of Ms. Palin and her parents but a supporter of Ms. Murkowski, said in an interview after Election Day that she had been surprised by the number of Miller supporters who appeared on street corners in the conservative Matanuska-Susitna Valley in the last week. The area includes Wasilla, Ms. Palin's hometown.
''At every intersection they had hordes of volunteers,'' Ms. Kincaid said. ''We had a great rally in the valley for Lisa, too. Lots of good people were there any everyone was cheering for her, but we're old guard and not necessarily the new one.''
Mr. Miller, who has a law degree from Yale and has been a federal magistrate in Fairbanks, will face Scott T. McAdams, the mayor of Sitka in Southeast Alaska, who won the Democratic primary.
Alaska voters lean hard to Republican candidates, but Democrats have pointed to early polls showing Mr. McAdams within striking distance. They say they will portray Mr. Miller as an extreme conservative out of line with the state's more pragmatic politicians, who have largely focused on bringing federal money to Alaska. Economists say about one third of the state's economy is dependent on federal spending.
One of those pragmatic politicians was former Senator Ted Stevens, who died in a plane crash on Aug. 9. Mr. Stevens had long been Ms. Murkowski's mentor, but her campaign decided not to use ads featuring him so soon after his death out of concern it would appear disrespectful. On Tuesday, however, as Ms. Murkowski conceded and some of her supporters cried, a large photograph of her and Mr. Stevens loomed above them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BALLOTS (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ABORTION (69%)

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (90%); SARAH PALIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (91%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (90%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



31 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2506 words

HEADLINE: President Obama's Address on Iraq

 BODY:
The following is the text, as prepared for delivery, of President Obama's address from the Oval Office on Tuesday night, provided by the White House:
Good evening. Tonight, I'd like to talk to you about the end of our combat mission in Iraq, the ongoing security challenges we face, and the need to rebuild our nation here at home.
I know this historic moment comes at a time of great uncertainty for many Americans. We have now been through nearly a decade of war. We have endured a long and painful recession. And sometimes in the midst of these storms, the future that we are trying to build for our nation -- a future of lasting peace and long-term prosperity may seem beyond our reach.
But this milestone should serve as a reminder to all Americans that the future is ours to shape if we move forward with confidence and commitment. It should also serve as a message to the world that the United States of America intends to sustain and strengthen our leadership in this young century. 
From this desk, seven and a half years ago, President Bush announced the beginning of military operations in Iraq. Much has changed since that night. A war to disarm a state became a fight against an insurgency. Terrorism and sectarian warfare threatened to tear Iraq apart. Thousands of Americans gave their lives; tens of thousands have been wounded. Our relations abroad were strained. Our unity at home was tested.
These are the rough waters encountered during the course of one of America's longest wars. Yet there has been one constant amidst those shifting tides. At every turn, America's men and women in uniform have served with courage and resolve. As commander in chief, I am proud of their service. Like all Americans, I am awed by their sacrifice, and by the sacrifices of their families.
The Americans who have served in Iraq completed every mission they were given. They defeated a regime that had terrorized its people. Together with Iraqis and coalition partners who made huge sacrifices of their own, our troops fought block by block to help Iraq seize the chance for a better future. They shifted tactics to protect the Iraqi people; trained Iraqi security forces; and took out terrorist leaders. Because of our troops and civilians -- and because of the resilience of the Iraqi people -- Iraq has the opportunity to embrace a new destiny, even though many challenges remain.
So tonight, I am announcing that the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.
This was my pledge to the American people as a candidate for this office. Last February, I announced a plan that would bring our combat brigades out of Iraq, while redoubling our efforts to strengthen Iraq's security forces and support its government and people. That is what we have done. We have removed nearly 100,000 U.S. troops from Iraq. We have closed or transferred hundreds of bases to the Iraqis. And we have moved millions of pieces of equipment out of Iraq.
This completes a transition to Iraqi responsibility for their own security. U.S. troops pulled out of Iraq's cities last summer, and Iraqi forces have moved into the lead with considerable skill and commitment to their fellow citizens. Even as Iraq continues to suffer terrorist attacks, security incidents have been near the lowest on record since the war began. And Iraqi forces have taken the fight to Al Qaeda, removing much of its leadership in Iraqi-led operations.
This year also saw Iraq hold credible elections that drew a strong turnout. A caretaker administration is in place as Iraqis form a government based on the results of that election. Tonight, I encourage Iraq's leaders to move forward with a sense of urgency to form an inclusive government that is just, representative, and accountable to the Iraqi people. And when that government is in place, there should be no doubt: the Iraqi people will have a strong partner in the United States. Our combat mission is ending, but our commitment to Iraq's future is not.
Going forward, a transitional force of U.S. troops will remain in Iraq with a different mission: advising and assisting Iraq's security forces; supporting Iraqi troops in targeted counterterrorism missions; and protecting our civilians. Consistent with our agreement with the Iraqi government, all U.S. troops will leave by the end of next year. As our military draws down, our dedicated civilians -- diplomats, aid workers, and advisers -- are moving into the lead to support Iraq as it strengthens its government, resolves political disputes, resettles those displaced by war, and builds ties with the region and the world. And that is a message that Vice President Biden is delivering to the Iraqi people through his visit there today.
This new approach reflects our long-term partnership with Iraq -- one based upon mutual interests, and mutual respect. Of course, violence will not end with our combat mission. Extremists will continue to set off bombs, attack Iraqi civilians and try to spark sectarian strife. But ultimately, these terrorists will fail to achieve their goals. Iraqis are a proud people. They have rejected sectarian war, and they have no interest in endless destruction. They understand that, in the end, only Iraqis can resolve their differences and police their streets. Only Iraqis can build a democracy within their borders. What America can do, and will do, is provide support for the Iraqi people as both a friend and a partner.
Ending this war is not only in Iraq's interest -- it is in our own. The United States has paid a huge price to put the future of Iraq in the hands of its people. We have sent our young men and women to make enormous sacrifices in Iraq, and spent vast resources abroad at a time of tight budgets at home. We have persevered because of a belief we share with the Iraqi people -- a belief that out of the ashes of war, a new beginning could be born in this cradle of civilization. Through this remarkable chapter in the history of the United States and Iraq, we have met our responsibility. Now, it is time to turn the page.
As we do, I am mindful that the Iraq war has been a contentious issue at home. Here, too, it is time to turn the page. This afternoon, I spoke to former President George W. Bush. It's well known that he and I disagreed about the war from its outset. Yet no one could doubt President Bush's support for our troops, or his love of country and commitment to our security. As I have said, there were patriots who supported this war, and patriots who opposed it. And all of us are united in appreciation for our servicemen and women, and our hope for Iraq's future.
The greatness of our democracy is grounded in our ability to move beyond our differences, and to learn from our experience as we confront the many challenges ahead. And no challenge is more essential to our security than our fight against Al Qaeda.
Americans across the political spectrum supported the use of force against those who attacked us on 9/11. Now, as we approach our 10th year of combat in Afghanistan, there are those who are understandably asking tough questions about our mission there. But we must never lose sight of what's at stake. As we speak, Al Qaeda continues to plot against us, and its leadership remains anchored in the border region of Afghanistan and Pakistan. We will disrupt, dismantle, and defeat Al Qaeda, while preventing Afghanistan from again serving as a base for terrorists. And because of our drawdown in Iraq, we are now able to apply the resources necessary to go on offense. In fact, over the last 19 months, nearly a dozen Al Qaeda leaders -- and hundreds of Al Qaeda's extremist allies -- have been killed or captured around the world.
Within Afghanistan, I have ordered the deployment of additional troops who -- under the command of General David Petraeus -- are fighting to break the Taliban's momentum. As with the surge in Iraq, these forces will be in place for a limited time to provide space for the Afghans to build their capacity and secure their own future. But, as was the case in Iraq, we cannot do for Afghans what they must ultimately do for themselves. That's why we are training Afghan security forces and supporting a political resolution to Afghanistan's problems. And, next July, we will begin a transition to Afghan responsibility. The pace of our troop reductions will be determined by conditions on the ground, and our support for Afghanistan will endure. But make no mistake: this transition will begin -- because open-ended war serves neither our interests nor the Afghan people's.
Indeed, one of the lessons of our effort in Iraq is that American influence around the world is not a function of military force alone. We must use all elements of our power -- including our diplomacy, our economic strength, and the power of America's example -- to secure our interests and stand by our allies. And we must project a vision of the future that is based not just on our fears, but also on our hopes -- a vision that recognizes the real dangers that exist around the world, but also the limitless possibility of our time.
Today, old adversaries are at peace, and emerging democracies are potential partners. New markets for our goods stretch from Asia to the Americas. A new push for peace in the Middle East will begin here tomorrow. Billions of young people want to move beyond the shackles of poverty and conflict. As the leader of the free world, America will do more than just defeat on the battlefield those who offer hatred and destruction -- we will also lead among those who are willing to work together to expand freedom and opportunity for all people.
That effort must begin within our own borders. Throughout our history, America has been willing to bear the burden of promoting liberty and human dignity overseas, understanding its link to our own liberty and security. But we have also understood that our nation's strength and influence abroad must be firmly anchored in our prosperity at home. And the bedrock of that prosperity must be a growing middle class.
Unfortunately, over the last decade, we have not done what is necessary to shore up the foundation of our own prosperity. We have spent over a trillion dollars at war, often financed by borrowing from overseas. This, in turn, has shortchanged investments in our own people, and contributed to record deficits. For too long, we have put off tough decisions on everything from our manufacturing base to our energy policy to education reform. As a result, too many middle class families find themselves working harder for less, while our nation's long-term competitiveness is put at risk.
And so at this moment, as we wind down the war in Iraq, we must tackle those challenges at home with as much energy, and grit, and sense of common purpose as our men and women in uniform who have served abroad. They have met every test that they faced. Now, it is our turn. Now, it is our responsibility to honor them by coming together, all of us, and working to secure the dream that so many generations have fought for -- the dream that a better life awaits anyone who is willing to work for it and reach for it.
Our most urgent task is to restore our economy, and put the millions of Americans who have lost their jobs back to work. To strengthen our middle class, we must give all our children the education they deserve, and all our workers the skills that they need to compete in a global economy. We must jump-start industries that create jobs, and end our dependence on foreign oil. We must unleash the innovation that allows new products to roll off our assembly lines, and nurture the ideas that spring from our entrepreneurs. This will be difficult. But in the days to come, it must be our central mission as a people, and my central responsibility as president.
Part of that responsibility is making sure that we honor our commitments to those who have served our country with such valor. As long as I am president, we will maintain the finest fighting force that the world has ever known, and do whatever it takes to serve our veterans as well as they have served us. This is a sacred trust. That is why we have already made one of the largest increases in funding for veterans in decades. We are treating the signature wounds of today's wars post-traumatic stress and traumatic brain injury, while providing the health care and benefits that all of our veterans have earned. And we are funding a post-9/11 G.I. bill that helps our veterans and their families pursue the dream of a college education. Just as the G.I. Bill helped those who fought World War II -- including my grandfather -- become the backbone of our middle class, so today's servicemen and women must have the chance to apply their gifts to expand the American economy. Because part of ending a war responsibly is standing by those who have fought it.
Two weeks ago, America's final combat brigade in Iraq -- the Army's Fourth Stryker Brigade -- journeyed home in the predawn darkness. Thousands of soldiers and hundreds of vehicles made the trip from Baghdad, the last of them passing into Kuwait in the early morning hours. Over seven years before, American troops and coalition partners had fought their way across similar highways, but this time no shots were fired. It was just a convoy of brave Americans, making their way home.
Of course, the soldiers left much behind. Some were teenagers when the war began. Many have served multiple tours of duty, far from their families who bore a heroic burden of their own, enduring the absence of a husband's embrace or a mother's kiss. Most painfully, since the war began 55 members of the Fourth Stryker Brigade made the ultimate sacrifice -- part of over 4,400 Americans who have given their lives in Iraq. As one staff sergeant said, ''I know that to my brothers in arms who fought and died, this day would probably mean a lot.''
Those Americans gave their lives for the values that have lived in the hearts of our people for over two centuries. Along with nearly 1.5 million Americans who have served in Iraq, they fought in a faraway place for people they never knew. They stared into the darkest of human creations -- war -- and helped the Iraqi people seek the light of peace.
In an age without surrender ceremonies, we must earn victory through the success of our partners and the strength of our own nation. Every American who serves joins an unbroken line of heroes that stretches from Lexington to Gettysburg; from Iwo Jima to Inchon; from Khe Sanh to Kandahar -- Americans who have fought to see that the lives of our children are better than our own. Our troops are the steel in our ship of state. And though our nation may be travelling through rough waters, they give us confidence that our course is true, and that beyond the predawn darkness, better days lie ahead.
Thank you. May God bless you. And may God bless the United States of America, and all who serve her.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); IRAQ WAR (72%); TERRORISM (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



32 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: China Illegally Subsidized Aluminum Products, U.S. Rules

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Obama administration, under Congressional pressure to take a tough stance on Chinese trade policies, determined on Tuesday that Beijing had unfairly subsidized $514 million in aluminum products last year. 
But the Commerce Department stopped short of making a stronger ruling on claims by American leaders and manufacturers that an undervalued Chinese currency gave Beijing's exporters a lopsided price advantage.
The preliminary finding means that some Chinese aluminum importers must post cash deposits or bonds at a rate set by American officials.
The White House has been trying to strike a delicate balance ahead of the November elections that will be dominated by the weak economy. The Obama administration wants to address worries by lawmakers who say the United States is losing jobs because China's currency policy keeps its currency undervalued against the dollar and makes Chinese products cheaper in the United States. But it also wants to maintain a good relationship with a country seen as crucial to dealing with global economic and environmental issues and with nuclear standoffs with Iran and North Korea.
On the currency issue, the Commerce Department refused to investigate allegations that China's currency practices amounted to an unfair subsidy. It said the claims did not meet American requirements needed to start such an inquiry.
Aluminum companies in the United States that requested the duties assert that the Chinese industry benefits from its currency policy.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, a regular critic of China's currency practices, said the ruling was incomplete. ''The Commerce Department made its finding while still managing to ignore the elephant in the room, which is China's currency manipulation. Once again, even when the opportunity is thrust into its hands, the administration has refused to take action,'' Mr. Schumer said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); ELECTIONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010



33 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: SEOGWIPO JOURNAL: Korean Isle Looks Abroad For an Education at Home

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOGWIPO, South Korea -- Here on Jeju Island, famous for its tangerine groves, pearly beaches and honeymoon resorts, South Korea is conducting a bold educational experiment, one intended to bolster opportunity at home and attract investment from abroad.
By 2015, if all goes according to plan, 12 prestigious Western schools will have opened branch campuses in a government-financed, 940-acre Jeju Global Education City, a self-contained community within Seogwipo, where everyone -- students, teachers, administrators, doctors, store clerks -- will speak only English. The first school, North London Collegiate, broke ground for its campus this month.
While this is the country's first enclave constructed expressly around foreign-style education, individual campuses are opening elsewhere. Dulwich College, a private British school, is scheduled to open a branch in Seoul, the capital, in a few weeks. And the Chadwick School of California is set to open a branch in Songdo, a new town rising west of Seoul, around the same time. 
What is happening in South Korea is part of the global expansion of Western schools -- a complex trend fueled by parents in Asia and elsewhere who want to be able to keep their families together while giving their children a more global and English-language curriculum beginning with elementary school, and by governments hoping for economic rewards from making their countries more attractive to foreigners with money to invest.
''We will do everything humanly possible to create an environment where your children must speak English, even if they are not abroad,'' Jang Tae-young, a Jeju official, recently told a group of Korean parents.
By inviting leading Western schools, the government is hoping to address one of the notorious stress points in South Korean society. Many parents want to send children abroad so they can learn English and avoid the crushing pressure and narrow focus of the Korean educational system. The number of South Korean students from elementary school through high school who go abroad for education increased to 27,350 in 2008 from 1,840 in 1999, according to government data.
But this arrangement often resulted in the fracturing of families, with the mother accompanying the children abroad and the father becoming a ''goose'' -- by staying behind to earn the money to finance these ventures and taking occasional transoceanic flights to visit.
This trend has raised alarms about broken families and a brain drain from a country that is already suffering from one of the world's lowest birthrates. Many of the children who study abroad end up staying abroad; those who return often have trouble finding jobs at Korean companies, regaining their language fluency or adapting to the Korean way of doing business.
Lee Kyung-min, 42, a pharmacist in Seoul whose 12-year-old daughter, Jeong Min-joo, attended a private school in Canada for a year and a half, said she knew why families were willing to make sacrifices to send their children away.
''In South Korea, it's all rote learning for college entrance exams,'' Ms. Lee said. ''A student's worth is determined solely by what grades she gets.'' She added that competition among parents forced their children to sign up for extracurricular cram sessions that left them with little free time to develop their creativity. ''Children wither in our education system,'' she said.
So Min-joo's parents believed that exposing her to a Western school system was worth the $5,000 they paid each month for her tuition and board, 10 times what they would have spent had she studied at home.
But Ms. Lee said her heart sank when Min-joo began forgetting her Korean grammar and stopped calling home. Still, she did not want to leave her husband behind to join her daughter, because she had witnessed in her own neighborhood how often the loneliness of ''goose'' fathers led to broken marriages.
''Our family was losing its bonds, becoming just a shell,'' she said.
In June, they brought Min-joo home, and they plan to enroll her in one of the international boarding schools in Jeju, often romanized as Cheju, next year. For Ms. Lee, this is the closest she can get to sending her daughter abroad without leaving the country.
''There is an expressed desire in Korea to seek the benefits of a 'Western' or 'American' approach to pre-collegiate education,'' said Ted Hill, headmaster of the Chadwick School, whose Songdo campus has been deluged with applicants to fill the 30 percent of slots reserved for Korean students. The balance of the student body will be recruited from expatriate families living in South Korea and China.
''When we explain to Korean parents what we try to do in the classroom, we see their eyes light up,'' said Chris DeMarino, business development director at Dulwich College Management International, which has a government-set 25 percent ceiling on Korean students at its Seoul school. ''There is a tremendous demand for what we offer, but, unfortunately, we have to turn many of them away.''
In South Korea, English proficiency and a diploma from a top American university are such important status markers that some deliberately sprinkle their Korean conversation with English phrases.
The country sends more nonimmigrant students -- 113,519 in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, 2009 -- to the United States than any other country except China, according to the United States Office of Immigration Statistics.
In a 2008 survey by South Korea's National Statistical Office, 48.3 percent of South Korean parents said they wanted to send their children abroad to ''develop global perspectives,'' avoid the rigid domestic school system or learn English. More than 12 percent wanted it for their children as early as elementary school.
Critics say that the Jeju schools -- with annual tuition fees of $17,000 to $25,800 and their English-language curriculum, aside from the Korean language and history classes for Korean students -- will create ''schools for the rich.'' But Kwon Do-yeop, a vice minister of land, transport and maritime affairs whose department oversees the project, said it could save South Korea $500 million annually in what is now being spent to educate children overseas.
''Jeju schools cost half what you spend when you have your children studying in the United States,'' said Byon Jong-il, the chief of the Jeju Free International City Development Center, which is managing the education project as part of an overall plan for the island. ''Not everything goes right when you send your children abroad.''
Some of the things that can go wrong have been highlighted by the economic downturn.
''Many of the students who were sent abroad in the 1990s have since returned home,'' said Shin Hyun-man, the president of CareerCare, a job placement company. ''Despite their foreign diplomas, they were unable to find jobs abroad because of the global recession. But their Korean isn't good enough, and they don't adapt well to the corporate culture here.''
Jimmy Y. Hong, a graduate of Middlesex University in London and now a marketing official at LG Electronics in Seoul, said that when he returned to South Korea in 2008, he enrolled in a business master's degree program at Yonsei University in Seoul to help compensate for his lack of local school connections, which can be critical to making friends, landing jobs and closing deals.
''I feared I might be ostracized for studying abroad,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Byon Jong-il, center, of the Jeju Free International City Development Center, at the groundbreaking ceremony last month for the planned North London Collegiate School, below. It is the first of 12 Western schools that plan campuses on a South Korean island. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEJU FREE INTERNATIONAL CITY DEVELOPMENT CENTER) MAP: English will drive the ''global education city'' in Seogwipo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TRENDS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); FAMILY (87%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); CURRICULA (73%); PARENTS (71%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



34 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU&#039;RE THE BOSS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Visions of the Big Time. But Can She Deliver?

BYLINE: By ADRIANA GARDELLA

 BODY:
In her first year of operation, Fran Gunsaulis, founder of Oh Baby Foods, learned that her business plan overlooked the logistical -- and costly -- realities of producing and distributing her organic, locally sourced baby foods. Her products are sustainable, but at a $5.80 cost per unit -- down from $8.01 in 2009 -- her business isn't.
The Challenge: There is only so much Sweet Potato Boogie and Bean Me Up, Baby that one woman (with some part-time kitchen help) can make, sell and distribute. Oh Baby, which is based in Fayetteville, Ark., must increase production to realize the economies of scale that will allow it to become profitable. 
''We have to secure a large contract, but how can we do that without proving we can fulfill it?'' Ms. Gunsaulis asked. ''It's chicken and egg.'' She believes Oh Baby will become profitable when its C.P.U. reaches $3.75. But her goal is even more more ambitious -- a C.P.U. of $2.80 that she can achieve if she produces about 3,200 cases of baby food annually. She is currently producing 300 cases a year. In her current set-up, she believes she has the capacity to make 900.
The Background: Ms. Gunsaulis, a fourth generation farmer with a master's degree in agricultural economics, financed Oh Baby with her now nearly depleted savings of $120,000. The company offers five flavors of frozen baby foods that have been sold by 15 independent retailers in northwest and central Arkansas since last November. In June, Ms. Gunsaulis began offering a refrigerated meals-for-babies weekly delivery service for local parents. Both options differ from mass-produced, processed baby foods, which are sold in jars and have longer shelf lives thanks to additives. Ms. Gunsaulis whips all of it up in a leased restaurant kitchen. It's a lot of work for a monthly gross of about $1,000.
The company's size puts it at a disadvantage when it comes to everything from delivery fees to packaging. It takes a driver just as much time to deliver a box of baby food, for example, as it would take to deliver an entire pallet. So, the shipping charge is the same. And while Ms. Gunsaulis is thrilled that she was able to get the packaging she wanted -- it's free of bisphenol A (BPA), it's recyclable, and it features label pictures of her friends' babies and her own -- she recognizes that she paid a hefty per-unit price. ''Due to packaging and other inefficiencies,'' she said, referring to her 2009 results, ''it cost me $96.10 per case of finished product that I then sold for $45.13.''
Oh Baby's frozen foods are priced the same per ounce as organic baby foods sold in jars (as opposed to Oh Baby's cartons). Ms. Gunsaulis says her refrigerated line costs a bit more because there is nothing comparable on the market. She is reluctant to push prices beyond consumer comfort levels. ''If you want the best possible baby food money can buy, this is it,'' she said -- but she doesn't believe she can charge more than the other organics. That puts even more emphasis on the need to increase volume.
The Options: Oh Baby has had a tough time connecting with a national retailer. Ms. Gunsaulis attempted to get her products onto Whole Foods' shelves and completed an online application last year. When she heard nothing, she packed up some baby food and drove to the nearest Whole Foods store. ''They called and said they'd love to carry it,'' said Ms. Gunsaulis. She was told that a regional buyer from Austin would arrange to inspect her kitchen. No one showed up. ''I'm just so small, I kind of get kicked to the curb sometimes,'' she said. ''But I'm conjuring up a trip to Whole Foods in Austin to do what I need to do.''
Ms. Gunsaulis is also thinking about franchising Oh Baby's refrigerated line. ''I get calls and e-mails from moms all over the country who want to establish a company like mine in their city,'' she said. She's excited about the idea but has her doubts: ''I wonder if this is yet another 'opportunity' that I'm conceiving to feed my incessant need for more challenges. Perhaps I should just follow the pattern of a new business owner whose product has only been on the shelf for eight months: monitor and adjust.''
The Debate: Please weigh in on Oh Baby Foods' best course of action. Should Ms. Gunsaulis seek a contract with a national chain? If so, how? Does franchising make sense at this stage? Should she scrap the delivery service? Does her pricing strategy make sense?
You can follow Adriana Gardella on Twitter.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fran Gunsaulis, the founder of Oh Baby Foods in Fayetteville, Ark., makes organic baby foods with names like Sweet Potato Boogie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER TIREY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY FOODS (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (89%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); RESTAURANTS (75%); FAMILY FARMS (73%); BISPHENOL A (65%); RETAILERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



35 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds the Number Of Illegal Immigrants Has Fallen to 11.1 Million

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
The number of illegal immigrants in the United States, after peaking at 12 million in 2007, fell to about 11.1 million in 2009, the first clear decline in two decades, according to a report published Wednesday by the Pew Hispanic Center.
The reduction came primarily from decreases among illegal immigrants from Latin American countries other than Mexico, the report found. The number of Mexicans living in the United States without legal immigration status did not change significantly from 2007 to 2009. Some seven million Mexicans make up about 60 percent of all illegal immigrants, still by far the largest national group, the Pew Center said. 
The report is based on census data from March 2009, the most recent census sample that is detailed enough for Pew demographers to estimate the statistically elusive population of illegal immigrants. The figures show that more than a year of recession in the American economy, coupled with intensifying immigration enforcement at the Southwest border and in workplaces around the country, brought a reduction of at least 900,000 illegal immigrants.
But the figure that may be most sobering to all sides in the increasingly contentious immigration debate is the estimate that more than 11 million illegal immigrants remain here. The Pew report shows that despite myriad pressures, there was no mass exodus of those immigrants to their home countries, especially not to Mexico.
Instead, the report confirms earlier findings by American and Mexican demographers that the flow of Mexicans coming in to the United States illegally to look for work had slowed sharply.
While the hottest immigration debate has taken place in Arizona over the last two years, that was not the state with the largest decrease in illegal immigrants from 2007 to 2009, according to the Pew report.
Florida, Virginia and Nevada showed the steepest declines -- three states that saw booms followed by busts in home construction, an industry that attracts illegal immigrant workers.
The Pew Hispanic Center is a nonpartisan research organization in Washington that does not advocate political positions on immigration. The report was written by Jeffrey S. Passel, senior demographer, and D'Vera Cohn, senior writer at the center. It does not try to weigh the respective roles of immigration enforcement and of economic factors like high unemployment in the falling numbers of unauthorized immigrants -- the term the report uses for foreign-born residents who do not have some form of legal immigration status.
The Pew report covers the first year and a half of the Great Recession, which economists say began in late 2007. It also covers a period of intensified immigration enforcement operations, which were initiated by the Bush administration and have continued, with some different tactics, under President Obama.
Other researchers said the Pew figures on illegal immigrants were consistent with estimates by the Department of Homeland Security, with previously reported trends in census data and with figures from the Mexican census agency. Pia M. Orrenius, senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said that Mexican census data showed a 67 percent decline in the outflow of migrants from 2006 to 2009, while showing no great increase in Mexicans returning home.
''They are settled here,'' Ms. Orrenius said. ''It is going to take more than a business cycle for them to move back to Mexico.''
She also said that federal enforcement had been concentrated at the border. ''Our enforcement policies are targeted toward stopping inflows,'' Ms. Orrenius said.
As the border has become harder to cross, the cost of hiring smugglers has soared in recent years, while far fewer jobs await migrants in the United States. Mr. Passel, the Pew demographer, said, ''The cost of getting in compared to the payoff from employment is changing the decisions of many potential migrants.''
The illegal immigrant population, after growing rapidly for years, has fallen to 2005 levels, according to the Pew report. In 2000, there were 8.4 million illegal immigrants in the country. In 2009, about 28 percent of 39.4 million foreign-born people in the United States were illegal immigrants, according to the Pew report; the rest were legal immigrants and naturalized citizens. About three-quarters of illegal immigrants are Hispanic, Pew found.
The Pew report does not explain why the numbers of immigrants from Central and South America and the Caribbean fell more sharply, but it finds that immigrants who are returning to those countries ''may have increased.''
Demographers said those migrants were more likely to be first generation, with less money, thinner support networks in this country, and far less experience than Mexicans have with the increasingly perilous illegal border crossing.
The passage across Mexico has also become very dangerous. Last month, the bodies of 72 migrants were discovered in Tamaulipas, in northern Mexico, and Mexican authorities said they were killed by drug traffickers.

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Population Shift: While the population of illegal immigrants from Mexico has leveled off, the number from the Caribbean, Central America and South America decreased by 22 percent from 2007 to 2009. (Source: Pew Hispanic Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); IMMIGRATION (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); CENSUS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); WRITERS (77%); TRENDS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



36 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: A Dream House After All

BYLINE: By KARL E. CASE. 
Karl E. Case is a professor emeritus of economics at Wellesley and co-creator of Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller housing index.

 BODY:
Boston
IF you read the coverage of the latest figures on the sales of existing homes from the National Association of Realtors, you may well have come to the conclusion that the American dream is dead. It is indeed worrisome that sales in July were down 25 percent from a year ago.
But a little perspective is in order.
First, the bad news. What has happened in the housing markets since 2005 is a catastrophe that may take years for our economy to recover from. 
Anyone who believed that home prices never fall has learned a tough lesson. The Case-Shiller price indexes released on Tuesday suggest that since their national peak in 2006, home prices have fallen by 29 percent. Some areas of course look better than others. Las Vegas is down 57 percent from its peak and Phoenix is down 51 percent. On the other hand, Boston is down just 13.5 percent and Dallas only 4.2 percent.
The effect on household wealth has been huge. Data maintained by the Federal Reserve show that the value of residential real estate directly held by households fell to $16.5 trillion in the first quarter of 2010, down from $22.9 trillion in 2006. It has yet to be determined who will end up bearing those losses. The decline in wealth has substantially reduced consumption, stifling the economy.
Depressing, yes -- but the end of a dream? Not exactly. I have never quite understood what the American dream really means when it comes to housing. For some people, it means having a solid and fairly safe long-term investment that is coupled with the satisfaction of owning the house they live in. That dream is still alive.
Others, however, think the American dream is owning property that appreciates by 30 percent a year, making a house into a vehicle for paying bills. But those kinds of dreams have become nightmares for the millions of foreclosed property owners who have found themselves sliding toward bankruptcy.
But for people with a more realistic version of the American dream, buying a house now can make a lot of sense. Think of it as an investment. The return or yield on that investment comes in two forms. First, it provides what is called ''net imputed rent from owner-occupied housing.'' You live in the house and so it provides you with a real flow of valuable services. This part of the yield is counted as part of national income by the Commerce Department. It is the equivalent of about a 6 percent return on your investment after maintenance and repair, and it is constant over time in real terms. Consider it this way: when Enron went belly up, shareholders ended up with nothing, but when the housing market drops, homeowners still have a house. And this benefit is tax-free.
The second part of the yield on investment in a house is the capital gain you receive if it appreciates and you sell the house. Gains are excluded from taxation if the property is a primary residence and the gain is less than $250,000 for a single filer or $500,000 for a married couple filing jointly.
Consider a few other bonuses of buying a home today. You can deduct the interest you pay on the mortgage. Interest rates are about as low as they can get. And, don't forget, home prices are down by 30 percent on average from the peak. The mortgage-interest deduction and the tax-free income from housing cost the government at least $200 billion a year.
During this recession the government has been doing even more on behalf of the American dream. It offered a tax credit of $8,000 to first-time buyers, and eventually $6,500 to other qualified buyers. Not only did the Federal Reserve continue to keep the short-term interest rates it sets at essentially zero, it purchased $1.4 trillion in mortgage-backed securities so that lenders could keep mortgage rates low.
Do the math. Four years ago, the monthly payment on a $300,000 house with 20 percent down and a mortgage rate of about 6.6 percent was $1,533. Today that $300,000 house would sell for $213,000 and a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage with 20 percent down would carry a rate of about 4.2 percent and a monthly payment of $833. In addition, the down payment would be $42,600 instead of $60,000.
IN fact, until about two months ago, it looked as if potential buyers were beginning to understand all these advantages and that the market was turning around. By May 2009, housing prices had stopped falling in a majority of the metropolitan areas surveyed in the Case-Shiller index. Sales were also up. In 2008, 4.9 million existing homes were sold. In 2009, the figure rose to 5.2 million; last November, sales hit an annual rate of 6.5 million (a boom-time number). Even new construction showed a pulse.
So, what happened to kill the momentum? For one thing, the first-time buyer credit expired at the end of April. And some longer-term demographic changes may also be affecting the housing market.
In the next several years, the Census Bureau and other demographers project that the number of American households will increase by 1 to 1.5 million each year. With new construction sagging, we should be experiencing a tightening market with low vacancy, as has occurred in every housing cycle since World War II. But instead of falling, vacancy rates remain at near-record levels.
My guess is that the number of households has not been growing as much as projected and may even be falling. We won't know for certain until the 2010 census is complete. This figure depends on many factors: immigration, emigration, the age distribution of the population and the number of young adults staying at home or doubling up. Unemployment is high, and we know that without jobs people tend to move in with Mom and Dad. And we don't make immigration easy, even for those with advanced degrees who would be most likely to enter the housing market. None of this bodes well for a quick recovery.
While demographic trends are uncertain, one important reason for the recent downturn is clear: The steady drip of bad news about the economy has sapped the confidence of buyers, sellers and lenders. And there is no understating the importance of expectations and confidence in this industry.
Real estate sales are unlike other financial transactions. You can place a rough inherent value on a stock or bond by looking at fundamentals: a company's profits, price-to-earnings ratios, quality of its products and management, and so forth. But a house is worth what someone is willing to pay for it. That's a very personal, emotional decision.
And emotions can change on a dime. To try to track moods and expectations as part of our Case-Shiller data, the economist Robert Shiller and I send out 2,000 questionnaires each year to recent homebuyers in San Francisco, Los Angeles, Milwaukee and Boston, asking them what they think is likely to happen to the value of their houses over the next year.
In 2005, respondents felt on average that prices would rise 9.6 percent. In 2008, they anticipated a small drop. In 2009, the figure turned positive again in all four cities, with an average anticipated gain of 2.2 percent. We have just tabulated this spring's survey, which found that homebuyers anticipate a gain of 5.2 percent in the next year.
In a given year, the number of completed sales is about 4 percent to 5 percent of the housing stock. Thus it doesn't take a change in mood of a large number of buyers to change the overall direction of the market.
This financial crisis has made us all too aware that we live in a Catch-22 world: the performance of the housing market drives the economy, and the performance of the economy drives the housing market. But housing has perhaps never been a better bargain, and sooner or later buyers will regain faith, inventories will shrink to reasonable levels, prices will rise and we'll even start building again. The American dream is not dead -- it's just taking a well-deserved rest.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MAXWELL HOLYOKE-HIRSCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



37 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Personal Tech; GADGETWISE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Parents, Note: Device Monitors Car Speed and Distance

BYLINE: By ERIC A. TAUB

 BODY:
Do you know about that data port in your car? Of course you don't. But as of 1996, all cars sold in the United States have had to have an on-board diagnostics port that can give technicians information on the performance of various automotive subsystems. It is usually located under the steering wheel. This is a way for mechanics narrow down what is wrong with a car when the ''check engine'' light comes on. 
Now a company has figured out a few things that consumers can do with the data port. Lemur Monitors, based in Newfoundland, Canada, has come out with a trio of data port devices that can help you drive more safely and keep an eye on other drivers of the car as well.
The company's most intriguing product is its $70 SafeDriver. Designed to put the reins on your children's driving, the SafeDriver module, which plugs into the car's data port, monitors the highest speed the car has reached, how often the car has come to a sudden stop and how far the car has gone.
The information gathered by the module is transferred to a separate readout that doubles as a key fob. So the next time your teenage charmer tells you he was only going 35 miles per hour for five miles before he returned the car, you'll know if he's telling the truth.
If your child decides to pull the module out as they're revving up or reinsert it using an incorrect PIN, the readout will display ''tamper,'' giving you the goods on them.
In testing the device, the SafeDriver product worked as advertised. It took about 60 seconds to read the instructions and another minute to enter the PIN code. Checking speed and distance against the speedometer showed the information to be accurate.
The company's other two products, the $50 AlertDriver and $80 EconoDriver, have more benign uses. AlertDriver sounds warnings when a vehicle is driven above 35 m.p.h. for city driving and 70 m.p.h. for freeways. The device can also be set to sound an alert at customized speeds.
The EconoDriver can help you understand how much fuel you're wasting with your lead foot. Enter the cost of gasoline per gallon on the separate readout, and the data port module figures out your cost per trip, miles per gallon, and whether you're driving efficiently.
The SafeDriver app is not likely to win you any kudos from your kids with its Big Brother abilities, but it could help convince your child to dismiss their Grand Prix fantasies. As for the other two products, check your car's manual before you buy. Many cars already have both trip computers and speed warning systems.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); GASOLINE (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



38 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Scholastic Books Revamps Its Marketing

BYLINE: By TANZINA VEGA

 BODY:
WHEN Karen Rice was a little girl, Santa Claus visited multiple times a year. At least it felt that way when Ms. Rice, now a 22-year-old elementary-school teacher in Elizabethtown, Ky., got the books she ordered from the Scholastic Book Club.
''I can remember as a kid, it's kind of like a little Christmas when your books come in,'' she said. 
In a tradition carried out in classrooms countless times during the club's 60 years, Ms. Rice got a catalog and order forms from her teacher and then went home, selected a few books and returned the forms and money to her teacher. A few weeks later, a box full of books arrived for distribution.
This school year, however, the bookseller is taking a new approach to getting its books into classrooms. For the first time, it plans to reach teachers using a combination of social networking, expanded e-commerce and new back-to-school promotions, in addition to the standard paper catalogs.
The reasons for the new effort include trying to find better ways to reach a rapidly moving population of teachers. Each year, many start their careers, move to new schools or leave the profession.
''There's just a tremendous amount of volatility and movement,'' said Judy A. Newman, the president of Scholastic Book Clubs. According to the National Center for Education Statistics, of the 3,867,600 public and private school teachers in the United States in the 2008-9 school year, about 7 percent, or 279,700, moved to a different school and about 9 percent, or 347,100, left the profession.
''The 2009 school year was particularly difficult because of the economic climate,'' Ms. Newman said. ''There was a tremendous amount of dislocation and uncertainty.''
Since keeping track of teachers' moves can be difficult, Scholastic decided to mobilize some of the most important people at any school -- the secretaries, who know who the new teachers are and who has departed.
''The school secretary is both the mayor and the heartbeat of the school,'' Ms. Newman said.
To ensure that the catalogs are distributed properly, Scholastic conducted focus groups with school secretaries to find out what happens when the catalogs arrive with their distinctive red Scholastic banners. According to Ms. Newman, the message was clear: ''When the secretaries see that red bar, they feel comfortable handing out that mail.''
Rene Fox, 56, an elementary-school secretary in Vallejo, Calif., agrees. ''We always put that in their boxes,'' she said. ''I'm the passer-on of the information.'' Ms. Fox, who has been a school secretary for 20 years, did not participate in the focus groups.
Scholastic is also taking its teachers from the classroom to the Web by using its Facebook page as a ''virtual teachers' lounge,'' said Jennifer Abelson, marketing manager for Scholastic. Ms. Abelson said the Facebook page, which has more than 94,000 members, was a place where teachers could meet with other teachers, students and parents to share classroom strategies and ideas to encourage reading.
This fall, Scholastic will add a tab to its Facebook page for new teachers, and will use the page as a place for people to talk about customer service issues. Scholastic also has a Twitter feed and a blog called Book Talk that will give teachers information on promotions, sweepstakes, interviews with authors and other features.
In addition to the traditional catalog order forms, Scholastic has upgraded its online order form to include an e-commerce option called COOL (for Clubs Ordering Online), in which teachers can recommend books to students and to parents based on the students' age and interests. Parents can also contribute books to the teacher's class list on the site.
An additional site aimed more at parents is PCOOL (Parents Club Ordering Online), where parents can buy books that the teacher has selected from club catalogs.
Scholastic began allowing teachers to place orders online in 2000. Today, three-quarters of the orders are made online.
To further broaden its online presence, Scholastic Book Club is also the national sponsor of TeachForUs.org, a blog for teachers and alumni from the Teach for America program, whose participants spend two years teaching in urban and rural schools in low-income communities.
The estimated budget for the new campaign to reach teachers is $9 million, but Scholastic isn't abandoning popular features of its old business model. Teachers who order from the club usually accumulate points that are good toward additional books and other products.
The company, noting the harsh economic climate, says it will offer teachers a number of different promotions this fall that will help them earn more points. Teachers who order in September will receive 10 points for every dollar spent on books as opposed to the usual minimum of one point for every dollar spent.
Teachers will also get $10 to spend on books and will get 10 free books with every $20 order. Scholastic also plans to distribute nine million free books to teachers across the country.
The point system helps some teachers stock their classrooms. ''One of the little-known facts about teachers is that they use much of their own money to outfit their classrooms,'' said Ms. Newman.
Beth Prince, 40, a kindergarten teacher for 11 years in Washington, said she usually spent close to $1,500 a year on classroom supplies like markers and gifts for the children. Ms. Prince said she was able to get books, a television and an iPod for her classroom using the points she had earned.
She also trains teachers on how to use the clubs and encourages parents to buy from them. For Ms. Prince, the book club ''helps open the conversation about starting a home library,'' especially for children whose parents do not read to them.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Advertising column on Thursday, about the revamping of Scholastic Books' marketing, misstated the nature of the Web site teachforus.org, a site for which the Scholastic Book Club is the national sponsor. It is a blog for Teach for America teachers and alumni, not a network for alumni alone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Scholastic Book Club says its Facebook page will help teachers, students and parents talk about class and reading. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); BOOKSTORES (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); STATISTICS (69%); FOCUS GROUPS (64%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



39 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL-BUSINESS GUIDE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: How to Choose And Work With a Mentor

BYLINE: By PAMELA RYCKMAN

 BODY:
AS a small-business owner, you may feel isolated. Without a large organization's resources, you may long for a sounding board for your frustrations and fears or a discreet, impartial adviser with whom to discuss the tactical and strategic challenges of running a company.
Mentors like teachers, coaches, colleagues and friends may have helped guide you through various life stages, but your existing counselors may lack the skills or knowledge to assist with your current venture. Whether you need consultation from a seasoned executive or commiseration from a peer, there are strategies you can use to build the strongest, most effective mentoring relationships. Here are some suggestions based on the experiences of small-business owners and mentoring professionals.
ASSESS YOUR NEEDS Rigorous self-assessment should precede your search for a mentor. ''You should understand your values, passions and motivation before asking someone to invest in you,'' said Richard Caruso, who left a finance career in 1989 to found Integra LifeSciences, a regenerative medicine company in Plainsboro, N.J. 
You need to consider your strengths, weaknesses and management style to know what types of mentors will be useful. Are you looking for someone with functional or industry expertise to help with an immediate business issue? Or would you benefit from an outsider's perspective? Do you need a senior adviser or a peer? Short- or long-term relationships? Group mentoring or one-on-one interaction? Answering these questions will help narrow your search. You might consider industry and trade groups, alumni or entrepreneurs' organizations, government-run small-business development centers or online communities.
Female and minority entrepreneurs often find it beneficial to enlist advisers of like gender or race. Dee Elliott, vice president at King Relocation Services in Santa Fe Springs, Calif., who also owns the travel Web site YouGottaGoTravel, said female mentors empathize with problems of work-life balance and business etiquette. ''Women have to be professional, yet remain open,'' she said. ''We have to be more careful about how we're perceived.'' In 2003, Ms. Elliott founded the mentoring program at the Orange County, Calif., chapter of the National Association of Women Business Owners.
CONSIDER CHEMISTRY If the mix of personalities is not right, find someone new.
Lena West, founder of xynoMedia, a social media strategy and development firm in Yonkers, met with several advisers before she found the right fit. ''Some mentors want to live vicariously through you or always want you to do things their way,'' she said. ''Don't get discouraged if a mentor doesn't work out. Just have a clear goal, accept the misfire and move on.''
GO VIRTUAL Traditionally, mentoring has been a face-to-face affair, but Web-based businesses have been using social networking tools to connect small-business people with counselors across the globe. Distance mentoring can give you access to people you otherwise may never ''meet'' and permits you to search for the specific characteristics you desire in a mentor.
Gary Druckenmiller Jr., co-founder of TheOpenSea.com, an online community of boaters and marine professionals, sought counsel on PartnerUp, a Web site that matches entrepreneurs with associates and business services, when he needed guidance on his start-up. ''Using the Internet allowed me to gather unbiased opinions from other small-business owners quickly,'' he said. ''It was the most efficient way to get advice.''
Jeff Jones, program director of MicroMentor, said his site worked like ''Match.com for entrepreneurs,'' aiming at underserved small-business owners like women and minorities. Subscribers create profiles and seek relationships with peers or senior mentors on the site. While participants use the Internet to make connections, once comfortable, partners exchange contact information and communicate by phone, by e-mail or in person.
If you want to try the Internet but are unsure which site is right for you, go first to Buzgate.org, where visitors can hunt for reputable organizations based on their needs and location. This aggregator site provides explanations for and direct links to associations like Score, Women's Business Centers and economic development agencies.
TAKE CHARGE A mentor used to be a judicious elder who imparted wisdom at leisure to a promising upstart. Now mentees are expected to steer the process.
Be candid about goals and expectations. Establish protocols for when and how often to meet and how best to communicate. Prepare questions and think through options before broaching topics. Successful mentoring relationships have both structure and accountability.
Many affiliations persist past their agreed-upon timeframe, but each party should assess the value of the bond periodically. Both mentor and protege should benefit and remain engaged.
MAKE RULES Encourage honesty and build trust -- through contracts, if necessary. Trust is essential, so avoid counselors with conflicts of interest, like competing businesses. ''As a new entrepreneur, you realize quickly that everyone has ulterior motives,'' said Alan Marnett, who established BenchFly.com, a career-development site for scientists, with help from mentors at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Venture Mentoring Service, which guides the university's constituents. The service requires mentors to sign confidentiality agreements and pledge not to invest in businesses led by mentees.
Choose only the most prudent, tactful advisers. ''It's extremely important to protect information, whether it's about a new product or challenges an entrepreneur is having in his family -- the whole pillow-talk aspect,'' said Brian Costanzo, senior vice president of global membership at Entrepreneurs' Organization.
Because trust is harder to build online, Web sites like PartnerUp and MicroMentor encourage users to rate mentors' acumen and reliability. Still, warns David Hemler, senior vice president of small-business services at the Deluxe Corporation, PartnerUp's parent company, everyone should do due diligence and ''be cautious sharing proprietary information.''
SEEK LOTS OF OPINIONS Do not expect one mentor to cover everything. Cultivate multiple mentors for your personal and professional development.
''One person is not a guru,'' said Sherwin Greenblatt, director of M.I.T.'s mentoring service, which provides entrepreneurs with up to four advisers who work together. ''With a team you get quality control of ideas and there's a social aspect. Everyone is learning from the others.''
Balance your instincts with others' opinions. Entrepreneurs often receive conflicting advice: ''trust your gut'' versus ''be open to advice.''
Disagreements with mentors are inevitable. ''Your gut feelings can be strong, especially when there's a niche you understand better than anyone else. But the more significant the decision, the more I incorporate my mentors' advice,'' Mr. Marnett said. ''If you keep rejecting your mentors, they're going to lose interest.'' You need not follow all recommendations, but if you're routinely disregarding an adviser, it may be time to part ways.
Mentors can also help highlight obstacles or weaknesses you're avoiding or cannot see. Shannon Cassidy, executive director of Bridge Between, a Philadelphia-based executive coaching firm, cited a diffident protege who preferred not to attract attention with clothes or make-up. Her mentor encouraged her to revamp her image and took her shopping.
''This woman's entire brand changed,'' Ms. Cassidy said. ''She had more confidence. It takes creativity on the mentor's part and openness from the mentee. Sometimes it's helping someone create a business plan and sometimes it's helping her pick out a scarf. The relationship can extend into any area of life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lena West of xynoMedia says she met with several mentors before she found the right one. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); WOMEN (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (73%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); RELOCATIONS (68%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



40 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: State Pension Fund Faces Shortfall, Candidate Says

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Every year, New York State issues a report that depicts its pension fund at the peak of health -- not a penny short of what it needs to pay retirees their benefits. In some years, the report even shows a little surplus.
But now a Republican candidate for state comptroller, Harry J. Wilson, says those rosy numbers are little more than an accounting illusion. In fact, the pension fund is papering over a shortfall in the tens of billions of dollars, says Mr. Wilson, who has an M.B.A. from Harvard. 
When the state takes its snapshot of the fund, he says, it makes several mistakes, including two big ones. First, it counts money that is not in the fund -- hoped-for investment gains that may or may not appear and future contributions from workers and taxpayers. Second, it does not take into account that the state pensions are worth more than other such promised money because they come with a constitutional guarantee.
The difference in dollars is huge, Mr. Wilson writes in a paper due out on Thursday. If New York recalculated its pension numbers with the stricter standards that companies use, it would come up $30 billion to $80 billion short, he says.
''The coming public pension crisis is the largest financial problem our nation faces at the state level,'' he warns in the report, adding that it would eclipse the cost of the bailouts of companies like the American International Group and Fannie Mae, or the savings-and-loan industry in the 1980s.
New York's retirees will not have their benefits cut, Mr. Wilson says, citing the constitutional guarantee. But over time, residents will see more cuts in public services and less money for infrastructure maintenance as public dollars are diverted to fill the hole in the pension fund.
The state's plan to borrow billions more from the pension fund to get through this year's fiscal squeeze, meanwhile, will drive the fund deeper into the hole.
Economists who were shown the paper said Mr. Wilson's analysis of the problem was sound.
''That part of it is exactly spot on,'' said Joshua D. Rauh, an associate professor of finance at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University who has written extensively on the accuracy of state pension numbers. He stressed that he was not endorsing Mr. Wilson's candidacy.
A spokesman for the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, disputed the assertion that the pension fund had a hidden shortfall. Mr. DiNapoli, a Democrat, is seeking re-election.
''Our level of review and diligence is more than sufficient,'' said the spokesman, Dennis Tompkins.
Mr. Wilson's gloomy assessment of the pension fund, the third-largest among all the states, comes at a touchy time for Mr. DiNapoli and for state financial officials across the country. Last month, the Securities and Exchange Commission accused the State of New Jersey of securities fraud for misrepresenting the condition of its pension fund. The S.E.C. usually polices the corporate accounting beat, and had never before taken action against a state.
The commission has also warned that it has a full-time task force looking at public pension funds, leaving state officials to wonder where federal regulators might focus next.
At the same time, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, an independent organization, has proposed tightening the pension rules, raising doubts about the numbers being reported now. Many state officials say the existing rules are fine, but Mr. Wilson is siding with those who say the rules are letting New York and other governments hide debt.
Debt, Mr. Wilson said in an interview, is something he knows a lot about. Last year, he served on the Obama administration's special auto task force, which forced General Motors through a Chapter 11 restructuring. The task force imposed losses on G.M.'s bondholders and fired its chief executive, but left its huge pension fund intact.
Mr. Wilson said that under the New York Constitution, the state comptroller had the authority to restructure the state's finances as needed. If elected, he said, he would work with the governor and Legislature to ''ease our pension system back to solvency.'' But first, he said, the numbers had to be corrected.
Mr. Tompkins, the comptroller's spokesman, said he was ''flabbergasted'' that Mr. Wilson would claim the state pension fund had a shortfall. He cited a report in the August issue of Governing, a publication for state and local officials, that called New York State ''the nationwide pension leader, with the country's highest-funded public pension at 107 percent.''
Every year, Mr. Tompkins said, the state requires a team of actuaries to review all pension calculations in detail; if something is awry, the chief actuary must report it to the comptroller and recommend an adjustment.
''The comptroller cannot arbitrarily change that number,'' Mr. Tompkins said. ''This is one of the more clearly defined processes in the law.''
Only once, more than a decade ago, did a state comptroller try to squelch an actuary, he said, and in that case the actuary resigned.
''We do things right,'' Mr. Tompkins said. ''We're not New Jersey. We're not guessing here.''
That is the problem, said Zvi Bodie, a finance professor at Boston University who was asked what he thought of Mr. Wilson's report. The state was following all the accounting rules to a T, Dr. Bodie said, and was coming up with misleading numbers because the rules were flawed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



41 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: August Was Disappointing for U.S. Automakers

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The fragile recovery in new-car sales stalled in August as consumers deserted showrooms that a year ago were flush with buyers drawn by the government's cash-for-clunkers program.
Auto manufacturers said Wednesday that their sales fell an average 21 percent during the month compared with a year earlier when the clunkers program was in full swing. The downturn hit both foreign and domestic carmakers -- though some European luxury brands reported sizable increases.
Analysts had been expecting an industrywide drop in sales from the previous August, but not such a big one. Also worrisome was a 5 percent month-to-month decrease in sales from July, and a general feeling that the market would remain stagnant in coming months. 
The slowdown reflects a broader retreat by consumers from making major purchases in an uncertain economic environment, economists and industry executives said.
''Consumers are being very cautious about where they spend their money,'' said Emily Kolinski Morris, senior economist with the Ford Motor Company. ''The demand in the market right now is largely replacement demand.''
The auto industry had been gradually rebuilding sales volumes this year after a dismal performance in 2009, when overall sales fell to their lowest point in nearly 30 years. Even with the bad August results, carmakers are on pace to sell about 11.5 million vehicles for the year, a healthy increase over the 10.4 million sold in 2009. But that is short of the annual average of 16 million a few years ago.
Showroom traffic had been increasing slowly through the spring and summer, and car sales were a lone bright spot among all retail sales in the United States in July. But analysts said that end-of-summer sales failed to lure skittish consumers into dealerships in August as several of the big carmakers posted their most disappointing month of the year.
''Until something fundamentally changes in the big macroeconomic picture, we're kind of stuck here,'' said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst with the auto-buying guide Edmunds.com. ''They're trying to throw deals out there, but that doesn't seem to be persuading the consumer.''
Sales at General Motors, the country's largest carmaker, fell 24.5 percent from a year earlier. Toyota sales dropped 34 percent, Honda was off 32.7 percent, and Nissan fell 27 percent.
Ford fared better than its largest rivals by reporting only an 11 percent decline. Chrysler, the smallest of the Detroit automakers, said its sales increased 7 percent, but that was considered an anomaly because it did poorly during the cash-for-clunkers program.
Industry executives said there were signs of pent-up demand among consumers, particularly those looking to trade in older-model vehicles.
''There is demand building which will likely be released when the economy gets on a firmer footing,'' said Don Johnson, G.M.'s vice president for United States sales operations.
Until then, any prolonged recovery in sales will be fitful. ''The most recent economic news does point to a slower recovery,'' Mr. Johnson said.
One of the strongest parts of the market has been demand for full-size pickups. G.M. said that sales of its Chevrolet Silverado increased 5 percent during August from a year ago. Sales of Ford's F-series models rose about 5 percent.
Over all, nearly as many light trucks were sold as passenger cars during August, which had not been the prevailing trend. For the month, 50.3 percent of all vehicles sold were cars, compared with 49.7 percent for trucks, S.U.V.'s and vans.
Some luxury brands significantly outperformed the overall market during the month. Mercedes-Benz increased 13 percent, Audi was up 14 percent, and Porsche increased 33 percent -- an indication that high-end buyers remained engaged.
G.M. and other automakers said that actual prices paid for their vehicles -- including cash incentives -- improved during the month. G.M.'s upper-end brands -- Cadillac and Buick -- were particularly successful with the introduction of higher-price models like the Buick LaCrosse sedan and the Cadillac SRX sport utility vehicle.
At G.M., the wind-down of its four discontinued brands -- Pontiac, Saturn, Hummer and Saab -- was all but completed during August. Of the 185,000 vehicles it sold during the month, less than 300 were from the discontinued brands. Pontiac, which sold nearly 30,000 vehicles during August 2009, sold only seven cars this August.
Analysts projected flat sales for the next few months, with the exception of manufacturers that have new products to offer. G.M., for example, is counting on a lift from its new Chevrolet Cruze compact car, and Ford is preparing to introduce a new version of its small Focus sedan.
Toyota, which has been plagued by safety recalls, appears to be facing a tough road because of its lack of new models. ''Toyota has no exciting product news to speak of,'' Ms. Caldwell said. A Toyota executive, Bob Carter, said the automaker thought that its reputation issues were fading and its sales would rebound if the economy did.
''We're confident that the brand is recovering nicely,'' Mr. Carter said. ''We're more concerned with the industry and the overall economic recovery.''
Jeff Schuster, executive director of global forecasting at J. D. Power & Associates, said some buyers might be waiting for Labor Day weekend, a traditional time for dealers to try to clear their lots in anticipation of the new model year.
''It's likely that new-vehicle buyers are holding off on purchases in anticipation of Labor Day incentives, which may benefit September sales,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hyundai Sonata
Toyota Corolla/Matrix (B4) CHARTS: LIGHT VEHICLE SALES: Monthly sales at an annual rate, seasonally adjusted. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
Motorintelligence.com) (B1)
How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); LUXURY GOODS (73%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



42 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: The Tribes of San Francisco

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
San Francisco
IF a decade spent following the fashion flock will teach you anything, it's that fashion people seldom have much to do with generating style. This little-appreciated truth naturally comes to mind as the Fashion Week juggernaut lumbers toward Manhattan, a rolling, continuous loop of live-streamed, Tweeted product-placement set to ambient glamour-buzz cranked out by the Industrial Hype Machine.
But it's a notion that also nags at an observer who happens to stray now and then from the corporate centers of fashion -- New York, Paris, Milan -- and into the wilds of ... well, the Bay Area, by most accounts the land that style forgot.
Even locals tend to concede, unasked, that San Francisco has historically been an also-ran in fashion terms. ''Every time a designer from here has a little bit of success, they disappear to New York,'' said Gladys Perint Palmer, executive director of fashion at the Academy of Art University, whose fashion department has an enrollment of 2,500. 
Ms. Perint Palmer was referring specifically to Nice Collective, a San Francisco-based label founded in 1997 by Joe Haller and Ian Hannula in part to capitalize on distinctive elements of a local style that, like so much else in the Bay Area, seems to be generated by some loopy organic collective impulse rather than an editorial cabal.
While the designers, who started the label as a D.J. collective with a sideline in fashion, never truly decamped to the East Coast, as Ms. Perint Palmer suggested, New York seemed to swallow them up after GQ named the pair to a list of promising new designers in 2007 and reviewers fell over themselves praising the men's wear collection they showed last year in Bryant Park.
What few remarked on was how much the Nice Collective clothes -- hooded scarves, trilby hats, Ernest Shackleton-style parkas -- looked like stuff you see all the time in this foggy, sports- and green-obsessed city, clothes worn with a decidedly offhand cool by members of the city's varied style packs, or what some here refer to as tribes.
What are those tribes, one might ask, and where are their encampments?
''There's the Mission tribe, the Haight tribe, the Castro tribe, the Pacific Heights tribe,'' said Ben Ospital, who with his sister Chris is an owner of Modern Appealing Clothing (M.A.C.), a venerable high-fashion outpost on Grove Street near the city's civic center. Mr. Ospital cited neighborhoods that all, in economic, real estate and sartorial terms, have an analogue in New York. (Think Williamsburg, the East Village, Chelsea, the Upper East Side.)
But while skinny jeans and flannel shirts, designer dreads and tie-dyed T-shirts, Restylane and Christian Louboutins, respectively, may be universally legible markers of group affiliation (hipsters, hippies, the Cult of Tory Burch) here other elements enter into the mix.
Not least is the importance of physical fitness, the kind you achieve by doing stuff like rock climbing (and not in the Craigslist sense), as well as a greater ease than you'll find in most cities with the precepts of adaptable re-use. ''Sustainability is not a dirty word'' in the Bay Area, said Alexis Handelman, the owner of ABC Bakery, an institution in the Napa Valley. Before embarking 30 years ago on life as a caterer to the oeno-elite, Ms. Handelman was a department store buyer. ''The stigma attached to used-clothing is gone,'' she added. ''You can either spend $300 on a top at Neiman Marcus or go to the thrift store and buy a bag of clothes for a tenth as much.''
Or you can do both and then mash up the results, as the women of the Mission tribe do.
''Those girls are the local Holly Golightlys,'' Mr. Ospital of M.A.C. said of women like Rachel Corrie, a waitress at Tartine, who as she left work last week hopped onto her bike wearing what looked like a gingham onesie, feet shod in gladiator sandals and a velvet equestrian hunt cap passing as safety gear perched atop her head.
Girls like her are all over the Mission. You see them flying down Valencia Street on Vespas, their wildly improvised get-ups composed of, say, rags scavenged from the Bay Area's fabled thrift shops (Out of the Closet in the Castro, Eco-Thrift in Vallejo, the Goodwill outpost just off the 101 Freeway in San Rafael), Marni skirts, vintage SM leathers culled from an eclectic assortment of goods at Marc Josef's locally legendary antiques shop, Tradesmen, and wingtip shoes. You see them particularly on a stretch of 18th Street, where Dolores Park vies for landmark status with Tartine, the upscale pizza joint Delfina and Bi-Rite grocery, a kind of foodie Vatican.
You also find them shopping at Dema, a Valencia Street boutique run by Dema Grim, a talented designer who abandoned New York a dozen years ago for the West Coast when several major accounts declared bankruptcy and left her $45,000 in the lurch.
''I decided I wanted to have my own store and to keep things small,'' said Ms. Grim, whose neo-vintage prints and witty tomboy clothing seem particularly appropriate in a city where everyone, of every social stratum, had better have a hoodie in the closet to combat the fluky summer chill and sturdy walking shoes.
What she likes about San Francisco style, said Ms. Grim, who is in her early 40s, is that the town is remarkably free of fashion hierarchies and in-crowd tyrannies. There is no shoe of the season here. There is no It bag. Except perhaps for the pulp-novel heiresses Vanessa and Victoria Traina (who anyway are almost New Yorkers), there are no Vogue-anointed darlings-du-jour.
''People will wear vintage with some D.I.Y. thing they made themselves with some piece that they couldn't resist in a boutique,'' Ms. Grim said. ''They're not afraid to mash things up.''
She cited as an example the D.J. Jackie Sugarlumps, who last week played a nightlong set of '70s power pop at the Make-Out Room, a hangout that serves thimble-size drinks under red mood lighting, wearing a black M.C. Hammer-style blazer over a polka-dot bathing suit and high-waisted jeans. ''How great is that?''
Did Tom Wolfe have it right when he claimed that much that is strange and crazy and wonderful in American culture has a way of starting out on the West Coast and eventually filtering East? You might think so when you spot a cluster of bearded bears hauling market baskets through Ferry Plaza Market, barrel bellies and Smith Bros. whiskers a lively rebuke to every hollow-eyed, six-pack starveling on the cover of a fitness magazine; or a transmale couple shopping for Jil Sander suits at M.A.C.; or the Celine-clad ''creatives'' from San Francisco-based behemoths like Gap or Levi's sampling Jessica Boncutter's food at Bar Jules, a hangout of the Hayes Valley tribe; or the intrepid kite surfers catching air at Crissy Field, their harnesses and zippers and neoprene gear uncannily like Nicolas Ghesquiere's designs for Balenciaga.
''It's not like New York, where people are ripping style and look so-put-together or so even great not-so-put-together,'' said Chris Deegan, the sommelier at the chef Laurence Jossel's much-ballyhooed restaurant Nopa. And it is true that on a Friday night at Nopa the communal table can sometimes seem populated by men dressed to mow your lawn.
Yet look closer and beneath the loose-fitting, layered garments can be detected an easy athleticism that helped make California sportswear the most influential American contribution to global fashion, bar none. ''It's much more about being fit than fashionable, per se,'' said Mr. Deegan, whose vintage Qiana shirt was stretched taut over a torso kept fit by bare-hand climbing.
It is not that locals have never heard of Tom Ford, said Miguel Lopez, whose Sui Generis on Market Street is the default outfitter to the Castro tribe. A consignment store run as if by museum curators, Sui Generis sells a selection of vintage clothing (Frankie Goes to Hollywood T-shirts alongside John Lobb shoes and suits from Comme des Garcons) so smartly merchandised that a consumer quickly forgets that the stuff on display is used goods. ''It's that people here don't want to show what they have in their closets,'' said Mr. Lopez, a native of Guadalajara, Mexico, who opened Sui Generis three years ago with a partner to offer a style alternative to a population whose last important contribution to fashion amounted to the sanded crotch jeans and white T-shirt uniform of so-called gay clones.
''It's a very difficult city to read,'' Mr. Lopez said, owing largely to the local distaste for ostentation and hype, a suspicion of anything that requires a high-degree of difficulty to pull off and that people spend a lot of their lives in cars.
''San Francisco is definitely about quiet style,'' he said. ''People care. They have the clothes, but they wear them in private. They bring in the most amazing stuff for consignment and I'm always thinking, 'Where did you wear this thing?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FEARLESS: A waitress, above, at Tartine
a local in the Mission District, right
and in Hayes Valley, far right. (E1)
 NEIGHBORHOOD LOOKS: Top, biking in boots. Below that, at Sui Generis in the Castro (left) and against a wall in the Mission District. Next row from left, kite surfing at Crissy Field, a couple in Haight-Ashbury and Chris and Ben Ospital of (M.A.C.). In the second row from the bottom, at the Ferry Building, Mission District style, and Jessica Boncutter of Bar Jules with her dog, Jules. Above, lounging at the Saturday market at the Ferry Building. From left at bottom, posing in Haight-Ashbury and Castro tribe members. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); WATER SPORTS (61%); SURFING (61%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



43 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Cleaning The Henhouse

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
The latest salmonella outbreak, underscoring the failures of industrial farming, reminds me of the small chicken flock that I tended while growing up on a family farm.
Our chickens wandered freely, and one dawn we were awakened by frantic squawking. We looked out the window to see a fox rushing off with a hen in its mouth.
My father grabbed his .308 rifle and blasted out the window twice in the general direction of the fox. Frightened, it dropped the hen. Yet the hen, astonishingly, was still alive. She picked herself up, spun around dizzily a couple of times, and staggered back to the barn. 
A month later, my aunt visited our farm with her Irish setter, Toby, who was always eager to please but a bit dimwitted. We chatted and forgot about Toby -- until he bounded up proudly to show a chicken he had retrieved for us.
It was the very same hen that had survived the fox. We shouted, and Toby sadly dropped the bird. She ruffled her feathers, glared at the dog, and then stalked off while clucking indignantly.
Perhaps that hen might have been ready to choose a cage over the perils of canines on the range, and, obviously, my family's model of chicken-farming was horrendously inefficient and no model for the future. But the other extreme of jamming chickens into small cages is a nightmare for the animals -- and the salmonella outbreak underscores that it can be a health hazard to humans as well.
Inspections of Iowa poultry farms linked to the salmonella outbreak have prompted headlines about infestations with maggots and rodents. But the larger truth is: industrial agriculture is itself unhealthy.
Repeated studies have found that cramming hens into small cages results in more eggs with salmonella than in cage-free operations. As a trade journal, World Poultry, acknowledged in May: ''salmonella thrives in cage housing.''
Industrial operations -- essentially factories of meat and eggs -- excel at manufacturing cheap food for the supermarket. But there is evidence that this model is economically viable only because it passes on health costs to the public -- in the form of occasional salmonella, antibiotic-resistant diseases, polluted waters, food poisoning and possibly certain cancers. That's why the president's cancer panel this year recommended that consumers turn to organic food if possible -- a stunning condemnation of our food system.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published a study in 2005 suggesting that in 2000 there were about 182,000 cases of egg-caused salmonella in the United States, including 70 deaths. That means that even without an outbreak in the news, eggs with salmonella kill more than one American a week.
''We keep finding excuses to keep this rickety industrial system together when the threat is very clear,'' said Robert P. Martin, the executive director of the Pew Commission on Industrial Farm Animal Production. ''It's really a matter of when, not if, these serious outbreaks occur.''
About 95 percent of American egg-laying hens are still raised in small battery cages, which are bacterial breeding grounds and notoriously difficult to disinfect. Hens are crammed together, each getting less space than a letter-size sheet of paper. The tips of their beaks are often sheared off so they won't peck each other to death.
They are sometimes fed bits of ''spent hen meal'' -- ground up chickens. That's right. We encourage them to be cannibals.
Industrial farms also routinely feed animals low doses of antimicrobials because growers think these help animals gain weight. One study found that 70 percent of antibiotics in the United States are used in this way -- even though this can lead to antibiotic-resistant infections in humans.
''Food safety has received very little attention since Upton Sinclair,'' notes Ellen Silbergeld, an expert on environmental health at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health who is deeply concerned about antibiotic overuse. ''The massive economic reorganization of agriculture has proceeded with little recognition of its potential impacts on these aspects of food. Cheapness is all.''
But as Professor Silbergeld notes, unsafe foods are cheap only in a shortsighted way. The Pew commission found that industrial production produces hogs that at first sight are cheaper by six cents per pound. Add in pollution and health costs and that industrial pork becomes more expensive by 12 cents per pound.
Largely for humanitarian reasons, Europe already is moving toward a ban on battery cages. In 2008, California approved a similar ban, and other states are expected to follow.
So let's hope this salmonella outbreak is a wake-up call. Commercial farming can't return to a time when chickens wandered unfenced and were prey to foxes (and Irish setters). But we can overhaul our agriculture system so that it is both safer and more humane -- starting with a move toward cage-free eggs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHICKEN FARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FACTORY FARMS (90%); POULTRY (90%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (89%); BACTERIA (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); ANIMALS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); RODENTS (78%); DOGS (74%); POULTRY & EGG INSPECTION (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); ANTIBIOTICS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



44 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Burger King Has Suitors From Brazil

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Burgers and beer -- an American meal if there ever was one -- could soon have a distinctly Brazilian flavor.
Burger King Holdings is in advanced talks to sell itself to 3G Capital, a little-known investment firm based in New York and backed by wealthy Brazilian deal makers who also control a large stake in the world's largest brewer, in the latest sign of Brazil's ascendance in the corporate world.
A deal is expected to be struck as early as Thursday morning for more than $2.7 billion, say people involved in the deal who requested anonymity. These people cautioned that it was possible that talks could still collapse. 
The pursuit of such an American icon and the rich price that has been offered -- a more than 20 percent premium from Burger King's closing stock price Tuesday -- illustrate the emerging power of Brazilian finance.
Brazil, along with Russia, India and China, the other so-called BRIC countries, is widely expected to be among the dominant global economies in the coming decades. And its economic advance has been accompanied with a rise on the global mergers-and-acquisitions scene.
Brazilian companies, armed with relatively strong balance sheets and backed by a vibrant domestic economy, have been growing by snapping up or merging with companies abroad. Brazilian corporate buyers and sellers have struck $51.4 billion worth of deals in 2010, putting Brazil on pace for record M.& A. volumes this year, according to data provider Capital IQ. By comparison, 2005 saw $10.1 billion worth of Brazilian deals.
Last month, the two largest airlines in South America, TAM of Brazil and LAN of Chile, merged in a $2.7 billion deal. And Brazilian companies have been looking north as well. The Brazilian beef company JBS last year paid $800 million for a majority stake in Pilgrim's Pride, the Texas chicken company.
Burger King's potential buyer, 3G Capital, is backed by Brazilian investors, including the billionaire Jorge Paulo Lemann. The firm views Burger King as a turnaround opportunity, one that draws upon the operational expertise gained in its beer and retail investments, the people close to the deal said.
If it succeeds in acquiring Burger King, 3G plans on building out the fast-food chain internationally, these people said. Burger King already has 93 restaurants in Brazil and plans to open about 500 new franchises in Latin America over the next five years, the company disclosed in a regulatory filing.
3G already has some experience in burgers and fries, having previously invested in Wendy's.
The investment firm's point person on the deal is Alexandre Behring, the former chief executive of one of Brazil's largest railroad operators.
Another 3G principal, Mr. Lemann, is best known for his major role in the $52 billion merger of the Brazilian-Belgian beer giant InBev with Anheuser-Busch. He and his partners serve on Anheuser-Busch InBev's board.
The 71-year-old Mr. Lemann, who is No. 48 on Forbes magazine's list of billionaires with an estimated net worth of $11.5 billion, earned his first fortune as a financier. In 1971, he acquired a small firm and built it into Banco de Investimentos Garantia, one of Brazil's largest investment banks, before selling it to Credit Suisse in 1998 for $675 million.
In 1989, he and his business partners gained control of a Brazilian brewery that grew into AmBev. The company later merged with Interbrew in 2004 to create InBev. (Carlos Brito, the InBev chief executive who led the company's merger with Anheuser Busch, is a key lieutenant of Mr. Lemann.)
The business partners founded GP Investments, one of Latin America's largest private equity firms, in 1993 but sold the firm to their younger partners earlier this decade.
Mr. Lemann, a former Brazilian tennis champion who competed at Wimbledon, lives in Switzerland but spends much of his time in Brazil and the United States. Warren E. Buffett has called him a ''good friend.''
If 3G was to acquire Burger King, it would be snapping up a company that has lately struggled. Last week it forecast weak demand for its new fiscal year amid high unemployment in the United States and economic weakness in Europe. It also cautioned that uncertainty regarding the costs of wheat and beef could affect its results.
A spokeswoman for Burger King said that the company did not comment on rumors or speculation. A spokesman for 3G declined to comment.
Since its 2006 initial public offering, shares of Burger King had fallen about 6 percent before news of a potential sale, according to Standard & Poor's. During the same period, McDonald's stock has climbed 111 percent.
In Wednesday trading, the stock of the Miami-based fast-food chain closed up $2.41, or about 15 percent, at $18.86, rising after news emerged in the morning of a possible deal.
A deal for Burger King would be the second time the company was taken private in the last decade. A consortium of buyout firms -- TPG, Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs Group's private equity unit -- took the company private in 2002 for $1.58 billion. Burger King sold shares in a 2006 initial public offering, but the consortium still owns about a third of the company.
At Burger King's current valuation, the private equity firms have made more than three times their initial investment.
Best known as the home of the Whopper sandwich, Burger King was founded in 1954 in Miami by two entrepreneurs who in 1967 sold the chain to the Pillsbury Company. The food company Grand Metropolitan of Britain acquired Pillsbury in 1988. After Grand Metropolitan bought Guinness in 1997, it formed Diageo.
Private equity investors have lately shown a keen interest in restaurants. In the spring, the Apollo Management Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners battled each other for CKE Restaurants Inc. Apollo prevailed, paying $694 million for the operator of the Carl's Jr. and Hardee's fast-food chains. California Pizza Kitchen also announced this year that it was up for sale and had received interest from private equity firms.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Burger King Holdings is in advanced talks to sell itself to 3G Capital, a Brazilian investment firm. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); MERGERS (89%); MEATS (79%); BRIC COUNTRIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BEEF (69%); POULTRY (69%)

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (97%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (58%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE CORP (53%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE DE MEXICO SA DE CV (53%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (97%); PPC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (97%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (97%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (53%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (53%); NAICS112310 CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN PRODUCTION (53%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER CHICKENS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); CHILE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



45 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Katrina, Five Years Later

 BODY:
New Orleans is rebounding well from the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and could conceivably end up on a stronger economic footing than before the storm -- if the city redevelops in the right way. For that to happen, federal, state and local authorities must step up the effort to restore flood-damaged neighborhoods, some of which are heavily blighted and still have less than half their prestorm populations. 
For starters, the state and federal government need to find more effective ways of working with community-based, nonprofit programs that have a good record of helping cash-strapped property owners restore their homes. (The Department of Housing and Urban Development and the State of Louisiana are collaborating on a pilot program, but more needs to be done.)
Congress, which has failed the city in any number of ways, must quickly extend the life of a crucial tax credit for corporations that invest in desperately needed affordable housing projects. Without that fix, the region will likely lose financing for thousands of apartments, many of them earmarked for the most vulnerable populations, including the elderly and the disabled.
A new report prepared by the Brookings Institution and the nonpartisan Greater New Orleans Community Data Center contains a great deal of good news.
Entrepreneurs are starting new businesses in significantly higher numbers than before the storm. Wages and median household incomes have risen compared with a decade ago. Arts and cultural organizations appear to be thriving. Thanks to reform-minded school leadership, the public school system has improved and become a magnet for teacher talent.
A new system of more than 90 community centers has given the city's poor residents better access to mental health services and preventive medical care. And the city now boasts a population that is more engaged civically -- and more deeply involved in matters of governance -- than ever.
But the region faces huge challenges. The dearth of affordable housing casts a long shadow on the city's future. At the moment, nearly 60 percent of city renters spend more than 35 percent of their incomes on housing. Nationally, about 40 percent of renters spend that much. These people skimp on nutrition and medical care, undermining the well-being of children, and are chronically at risk of homelessness. They move often -- one step ahead of eviction -- which leads to higher employee turnover, higher training costs and lower productivity. And without more affordable housing, some areas of the city could remain permanently vacant.
To stabilize its neighborhoods -- and attract a larger middle-class population -- government officials must solve the problem of blight. With 55,000 abandoned addresses, New Orleans is probably the most blighted city in the country, and few people want to live among darkened, abandoned buildings. The obvious first step is to expand investment in local nonprofits that solidify partly refurbished neighborhoods by renovating the remaining abandoned homes on a given block.
Homelessness also is a nagging problem. According to a distressing analysis by Unity of Greater New Orleans, a social service consortium, the dangerous abandoned buildings are now home to somewhere between 3,000 and 6,000 people -- most of whom suffer from mental illnesses. More must be done to get these people stabilized and into supportive housing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (74%); CHILDREN (74%); EVICTION (74%); FLOODS & FLOODING (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (72%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); HOMELESSNESS (63%); MENTAL HEALTH (50%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



46 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Shopping For Bargains And Wary Of Bedbugs

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
In a summer when bedbugs have crawled deep into New York City's psyche, no one is more anxious than those shoppers who live to scout secondhand clothing shops and used-furniture stores. They are connoisseurs of what is hot, hip, a bargain. They know where the flea markets are and when the vintage shops are open.
And they are scared that bedbugs from the home of a former owner still call that $20 designer jacket or that fabulous $65 chair their castle.
That explains why a puzzled-looking Elizabeth Borne was standing on East 23rd Street one afternoon last week. Should she risk the $325 sofa with the paisley fabric that she had just seen in the Housing Works thrift shop near Third Avenue? Was it worth feeling jittery and jumpy about something whose history she could not know? Would she fret every time she invited someone over or curled up for a nap? 
''I like and I want it,'' she said. ''It looks sort of reproductiony. It's quirky, it's eclectic, it's rustic-slash-retro. But my first thought is bedbugs -- and bedbugs are freaky.''
Ms. Borne is hardly the only secondhand-store shopper whose first thought has been Cimex lectularius, the speck-size common bedbug. In the spring, the first question from a student at a Fashion Institute of Technology course called ''Is Vintage for You?'' was, ''Have you ever experienced any issues with bedbugs?''
''One girl in particular in the class had an issue,'' said the instructor, Bridgett Artise, a fashion designer and an author of ''25 Ways to Deconstruct, Reinvent and Recycle Your Wardrobe.'' ''She said, 'I had a problem with a jacket.' She said they were in the lining, so it was hard to know they were even there.''
''They'' might find a funky 1950s housedress as appetizing as a so-last-year strapless number. ''Obviously, these bugs do not respect economic level or social status or neighborhood -- they found them in Abercrombie & Fitch,'' said Jose Medellin, a spokesman for Goodwill Industries of Greater New York and Northern New Jersey.
And so secondhand-store buyers worry about something the size of a lentil that could have been on a pipe near the ceiling or in a book on a shelf before it made the jump to clothing or furniture that was consigned or given away. Ms. Borne, a nursing student, said she had looked at pictures of bedbug bites online to see how they differed from spider bites and mosquito bites, just in case she ever needed to know.
Ms. Artise said: ''I only worry about newbies, new vintage shoppers. People like myself already know the telltale signs, and what to do.
''The first thing I always tell people who buy vintage clothing is if they see any type of anything that looks like it might have remnants of bedbugs, put it in a plastic bag and freeze it. You keep it in there, I would say, for at least three days. It can't survive freezing. And after it thaws out, I would take it to a dry cleaner.''
Lisa Slocum, a lawyer who bought a velvet coat for $33 at the City Opera Thrift Shop --''I just can't resist a bargain,'' she said -- lived through bedbugs a couple of years ago.
''I swore if I ever bought anything in a thrift shop again, I'd wrap it in plastic and take it right to the dry cleaner,'' Ms. Slocum said. ''You really do believe you'll never get rid of them.''
The infestation was enough for her to stop making the rounds of vintage shops ''for a while,'' even though she had no evidence they came from the stores she had frequented. ''I'm a hard person to stop from secondhand shopping,'' she said as she left the City Opera shop on East 23rd Street.
Managers and clerks at vintage stores said that they were getting a lot of questions from customers but that the bedbug epidemic did not seem to be putting a dent in their business.
''I've never seen a bedbug,'' said Tiffany Collings, the manager at Beacon's Closet, on Fifth Avenue in Park Slope, Brooklyn, where party dresses sell for as little as $10. ''We've never -- knock on wood -- had a problem with bedbugs, but it's absolute and utter sheer luck.''
Ms. Collings said some customers asked what precautions the store took. ''I tell them, 'If you're worried about bedbugs, I've read about bedbugs. If you put clothes in a dryer under high, high heat, it's supposed to kill the bugs and eggs,' '' she said. ''We're looking, physically looking at clothes'' when a customer brings in clothing to sell, and if she saw a bedbug, she said, she would hand the item back.
Housing Works said it fumigated its stores and its processing and distribution center in Long Island City. For furniture, said Matthew Bernardo, the senior vice president for business service, Housing Works has a screening policy: someone from Housing Works inspects it at the prospective donor's apartment first.
''We always say when people set up for us to pick up furniture that we have the right to refuse,'' Mr. Bernardo said.
Mr. Medellin, the Goodwill spokesman, said Goodwill Industries sprayed all its 39 stores and its processing center.
''We do not take home pickups, and we have not received any reports of bedbugs,'' he said. ''We have an ongoing contract with an exterminator. We asked them, 'Please, make sure that we're covered for bedbugs as well.' ''Mattresses are a particular concern, because many consider them the passport for bedbugs through the city. Gale A. Brewer, a city councilwoman who represents the Upper West Side, pressed for a ban on used and reconditioned mattresses. It turned out used mattresses were already covered under a state law passed years ago requiring that they be sanitized, thus killing any bedbugs, before they can be resold. But state regulators have yet to publish standards for accomplishing that.
''I tell people -- given the fact that the Centers for Disease Control has declared bedbugs a pretty big menace, an epidemic, actually, and when you have an epidemic you take precautions -- that I don't shop in secondhand stores,'' Ms. Brewer said. ''That's everything from the Salvation Army stores to fancy vintage-clothing stores.''
And Ms. Borne and the sofa at the Housing Works shop? ''I'm not sold on it,'' she said.
But she did buy a $20 Zara dress.
''A dress,'' she said, ''you can wash.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Housing Works thrift store on East 23rd Street, like all the organization's shops, is fumigated to prevent infestation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BED BUGS (94%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); FURNITURE STORES (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (73%); WRITERS (63%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



47 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: The Real Say on Pay

 BODY:
The Financial Times reported this week that lawyers for corporate America are warning of a ''logistical nightmare'' from a provision in the new financial reform law that requires companies to disclose the ratio between a chief executive's pay package and that of a typical employee. 
The lawyers say that the ratio would be unfairly complex to calculate and could encourage false comparisons. But the real problem is that C.E.O.'s and corporate boards would have to justify -- to shareholders, employees and the public -- what are sure to be some very large gaps between pay at the top and pay for everyone else.
Federal filings already tell investors how much top executives make. The median salary of a Standard & Poor's 500 chief executive last year was $1.025 million, and the median total pay package including bonuses and nonsalary income was $7.5 million, according to Equilar, an executive compensation research firm. The median pay of private-sector workers in the United States was about $30,000 in 2008, the most recent year of data. With benefits added in, that comes to roughly $36,000.
Without company-specific data, however, it is impossible to measure and judge the effect of pay structures on companies and the broader economy. It is clear that C.E.O. pay has skyrocketed while workers' pay has stagnated; it is also clear that skewed pay and rising income inequality correlate to bubbles and crashes.
How does the pay gap between the boss and the workers figure into performance? Are companies efficiently providing goods and services or are they being run for the enrichment of the few? Disclosure of the gap could help provide answers and in the process, help investors, policy makers and the public understand the forces that are shaping business and the economy.
It is up to the Securities and Exchange Commission to develop rules to calculate employees' total compensation, including whether to include workers outside the United States. The best approach would be to measure the pay gap both against the global work force and the American work force, because company performance -- and the impact of corporate decisions on investors and the economy -- are tied to each number.
Corporate opponents of the law insist that pay-gap disclosures would be misleading. A company that outsources its low-wage work, for example, could have a smaller gap than a company that employs low-wage workers, even though the outsourcer is not necessarily a better-run company. That misses the point. The point is to calculate, disclose and explain the gaps as they exist for the way a company does business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); OUTSOURCING (87%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



48 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Other Nations Struggle As China Keeps Growing

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- A bevy of manufacturing indexes from around the world on Wednesday underlined the uneven and shaky nature of the global recovery, with activity picking up a notch in the economic powerhouse of China, but cooling in the eurozone and several other Asian countries.
The mixed picture reflected the uncertainties haunting the global economy. U.S. unemployment and household debt remain high and the country's property market is still fragile. At the same time, much of the Asia-Pacific region continues to stand out with buoyant, although moderating growth. 
Growth in China, which this year leapfrogged Japan to become the second-largest economy in the world, behind the United States, has been supported by a giant government stimulus package and ample lending by state-controlled banks.
The pace of expansion in China has somewhat moderated in recent months, as the government has instructed banks to lend less and as various tools designed to curb speculative investments in the soaring property market have stalled excessive price increases in the sector.
But the manufacturing data on Wednesday, which gave the first insight into how the economy performed in August, showed that the modest slowdown of the past few months had not become a worrying decline.
Two monthly surveys of purchasing managers released on Wednesday showed manufacturing activity picked up slightly in August after several months of slight declines.
The government-backed purchasing managers' index, published by the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing, ticked up to 51.7, from 51.3 in July.
A similar survey compiled by HSBC also rose, to 51.9 from 49.4 the previous month.
''This reconfirmed our long-held view that China is moderating rather than melting down,'' commented Hongbin Qu, chief China economist at HSBC, in a note accompanying the bank's data.
Analysts at ANZ echoed this in another note. ''Today's P.M.I.'s also show that there is little chance that China will experience a double-dip recession in the second half of 2010.''
Longer-term, economists caution, China faces the considerable challenge of rebalancing its economy, stimulating more domestic demand for the goods it produces.
For now, however, China's robust recovery mirrors the performance across much of the Asia-Pacific region. Free from the sort of debt levels still plaguing governments and households in much of the developed world, most of the region quickly resumed healthy growth after the global financial crisis.
Data this week have underlined the point. On Wednesday, Australia reported that its economy had expanded more than analysts had expected during the second quarter, growing 1.2 percent from the previous quarter and 3.3 percent compared with the same period last year.
On Tuesday, India reported better-than-expected growth figures for the quarter. Although the HSBC-compiled P.M.I. for India, published Wednesday, slipped a touch in August, economists are generally bullish on the country's growth prospects.
South Korea, meanwhile, released trade data for August on Wednesday that showed exports and imports both rose nearly 30 percent from a year earlier -- somewhat less than analysts had forecast.
The main exception to Asia's rebound is Japan.
''Japan's export-led recovery is running out of steam, dragged down by an uncertain global economic outlook, slack domestic demand, and a government policy stalemate,'' Standard & Poor's said in a report on Wednesday.
The ratings agency said that the recovery's momentum in the United States had weakened recently and that certain growth areas like Japanese auto and technology-related exports are expected to slow.
''In Europe, we see demand remaining weak in the near term, so it will likely take time for Japanese exports to Europe to reach pre-global financial crisis levels,'' the report said.
A purchasing managers' index for the euro zone, also released Wednesday, underlined this point. The gauge declined to 55.1 in August, from 56.7 in the previous month, said Markit Economics, which is based in London, adding that activity remained especially subdued in Greece, Spain and Italy.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A construction site in southwest China. The nation took steps to rein in lenders' risk and slowed the soaring prices for real estate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); EURO ZONE (72%); STATISTICS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (54%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (51%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%) CHINA (96%); ASIA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



49 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Feud With Palin In Background Of Alaska Upset

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
ANCHORAGE -- The message might have seemed gracious, on its face.
''Thank you for your service, Sen. Murkowski,'' Sarah Palin wrote on her Twitter account on Tuesday night after Senator Lisa Murkowski conceded to Joe Miller, the political novice Ms. Palin had endorsed in Alaska's Republican primary. Yet in the same message, Ms. Palin had reveled in Mr. Miller's stunning upset, writing, ''Do you believe in miracles?''
It took Sarah Palin just four years to help dismantle the political empire the Murkowski family took three decades to build.
In 2006, she ousted Gov. Frank H. Murkowski from the governor's office, embarrassing him by 30 points in a Republican primary. But the strange tango of tension between Ms. Palin and Ms. Murkowski, two very different women who proved unable to share the small stage that is Alaskan politics, predated even that defeat. 
''I don't understand it,'' said John Bitney, who was a top adviser to Ms. Palin during her run in 2006 and worked as campaign manager for Ms. Murkowski this year. ''The back-and-forths have been all out in the open. I don't know what drives them.''
Mr. Bitney has been closer than most to both women, and he said their relationship, as far as he could tell, starts and stops in public, even as the history between them runs deep and personal.
''I wanted to avoid a race between Sarah and Lisa,'' he said, referring to the Republican primary race that ended a week after the voting as the count dragged on. ''It was going to raise issues that I didn't want to have to deal with. I had hoped this would not be a story.''
Ms. Palin, always the more colorful of the two, mostly made the pages turn. After endorsing Mr. Miller in June, she said nothing more for months in public. Then, in the final days before the Aug. 24 primary, she lashed out at Ms. Murkowski in automated phone calls. She posted video clips of their campaign debates on Facebook and wrote that Ms. Murkowski, if re-elected, would be ''another Democrat in the Senate voting for the Obama agenda which is bankrupting us.''
Ms. Murkowski, a moderate who often seems stiff in public, played uncharacteristically hard to conservative voters in the final weeks of the race, mocking the Obama administration as overreaching and irresponsible. But she stayed silent about the former governor until after the votes were cast.
''I think she's out for her own self-interest,'' the senator told The Anchorage Daily News the night of the primary, referring to Ms. Palin. ''I don't think she's out for Alaska's interest.''
Brought together by their positions at times, whether at annual luncheons at the governor's mansion in Juneau or at meetings with aides in Washington, the women otherwise seem to have had little meaningful interaction.
''I think there were very few private moments,'' said Andrew Halcro, a longtime friend of Ms. Murkowski who ran as an independent against Ms. Palin in 2006. ''Most of the time, Lisa walked away with just an absolute surprise at how disengaged she was with Alaska and public policy concerning Alaska.''
Their political differences are sharp. Ms. Palin opposes abortion and argues loudly against taxes and federal spending; Ms. Murkowski supports abortion rights and once raised the idea of reinstating a state income tax for Alaska when she was a state lawmaker. She has long made conservatives uncomfortable.
''She's definitely seen as way too left of the right, if you will,'' Stephen Haycox, a historian here, said of Ms. Murkowski. ''That's a part of the reason why they never had a relationship. Palin made a lot of her political reputation on anti-abortion issues.''
Neither Ms. Murkowski nor Ms. Palin agreed to be interviewed.
They represent very different versions of Alaska. Ms. Palin grew up in Wasilla, where development dead-ends and some of the most remote places in America begin. Her father was a schoolteacher, but she earned only a bachelor's degree after hopscotching from college to college.
Ms. Murkowski grew up in Fairbanks, graduated from Georgetown University and later earned a law degree. In a frontier state, her family counted as the establishment. She was a young woman when her father was elected to the Senate in 1980.
In many ways, the story of Ms. Palin and Ms. Murkowski begins with Frank Murkowski, well before Ms. Palin defeated him in 2006.
''Sarah,'' said Rick Halford, a former State Senate president and an early supporter of Ms. Palin, ''was not necessarily respectful to her father.''
Mr. Murkowski left the Senate in 2002, during his fourth term, to run for governor. At the time, the governor appointed replacements for vacant Senate seats. After Mr. Murkowski won the governor's race, he interviewed several candidates to serve the remainder of his Senate term. Ms. Palin, who had been mayor of Wasilla and was viewed as a rising Republican star, was among those he interviewed, but he ended up appointing his daughter to fill his seat.
In her book, ''Going Rogue,'' Ms. Palin said Mr. Murkowski warned her repeatedly how hard it would be to care for children while working in the Senate.
''He then handed what was called the most coveted government job in the state to his daughter, Lisa, a mom with two young kids,'' she wrote.
Ms. Palin wrote that she was disappointed ''for about seven seconds,'' but by 2004, when Ms. Murkowski ran for a full term, Ms. Palin endorsed a more conservative Republican in the primary, Mike Miller.
''It was first of all driven by the appointment and in many ways it was driven by their philosophical divide on social and economic issues,'' Mr. Miller, a former State Senate president from North Pole, said in an interview. ''They're just people that are philosophically really not aligned, other than that they're both Republicans.''
Many people expected Ms. Palin to run against Ms. Murkowski herself once 2010 arrived, but Ms. Palin made a point of saying she would not. Fresh off the newfound fame created by the 2008 presidential campaign, she created a political action committee and made a show of donating to Ms. Murkowski's campaign in early 2009.
A few months later, Ms. Palin stunned the state by resigning. Ms. Murkowski, rarely confrontational, passed succinct judgment.
''I am deeply disappointed that the governor has decided to abandon the state and her constituents before her term has concluded,'' she said.
By the following spring, Ms. Palin was backing Mr. Miller, an ally for several years, and she had reframed her initial support for Ms. Murkowski.
''With no one willing to challenge the political machine at the time, and amid rumors that I would challenge Lisa Murkowski for the U.S. Senate, SarahPAC contributed to Lisa's campaign,'' Ms. Palin wrote on Facebook in June. ''As she and I discussed, this was an attempt to reassure the senator that I, as Alaska's governor, had no intention of jumping into the race.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sarah Palin, as governor, greeting Senator Lisa Murkowski in Juneau, Alaska, in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS MILLER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Ms. Murkowski, who trailed Joe Miller, her Republican primary opponent, by 1,668 votes, gave her concession speech Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN JOLING/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (94%); SARAH PALIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (89%); JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



50 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Averted Depression, Romer Says

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Christina D. Romer, chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, said in a farewell speech on Wednesday that the administration's stimulus policies averted ''a second Great Depression.''
But she also gave her most detailed explanation yet for why her original forecast that unemployment would peak at 8 percent ''was so far off.''
Ms. Romer's last day as one of the four principals on Mr. Obama's economic team is Friday, which means one of her last acts will be to provide the administration's reaction to the latest unemployment report. 
For the last year those reports have been a monthly refutation of her early projection. The report for August, expected to show the jobless rate remaining near 9.5 percent, will be no different.
With Republicans continually reminding voters of the erroneous forecast, it undercut Ms. Romer's effectiveness as a public spokeswoman for administration policies. Within White House economic debates, however, she proved to be more active than most predecessors in past administrations.
The economic projections that were the basis for Mr. Obama's $787 billion stimulus package of spending and tax cuts were based on data from late 2008, before Mr. Obama took office. Ms. Romer, in her speech at the National Press Club, said that she, like most analysts, had underestimated American businesses' reaction to the near collapse of the financial system in 2008 and the global nature of the recession.
''What was not clear at the time was how quickly and strongly the financial crisis would affect the economy,'' she said. Because such financial shocks are rare, she added, ''to this day economists don't fully understand why firms cut production as much as they did, and why they cut labor so much more than they normally would.''
Ms. Romer, a scholar of the Depression who is returning to the University of California, Berkeley, to resume teaching, said economists would be studying those questions for years.
''In any event,'' she added, ''almost all analysts were surprised by the violent reaction.''
The analysts, and the new Obama economic team, also were surprised that the reaction turned out to be global, Ms. Romer said. She recalled that until reports in 2009 showed slowdowns in Asian and European countries, she and Mr. Obama's other advisers had anticipated that those trading partners would help bolster the American economy.
Even so, by then the advisers had greatly increased the size of the proposed stimulus package by hundreds of billions of dollars; Congress passed it within a month of Mr. Obama's inauguration.
Against Republicans' continued claims in this campaign season that the stimulus package was a waste -- a claim many nonpartisan analyses dispute -- Ms. Romer offered an emphatic affirmation.
''I am proud of the recovery actions we have taken,'' she said. ''I believe they have made the difference between a second Great Depression and a slow but genuine recovery. And the passage of health care reform and financial regulatory reform are accomplishments that will be with us long after the recession is over.''
Congress is divided over further action. ''Concern about the deficit cannot be an excuse for leaving unemployed workers to suffer,'' Ms. Romer said. ''We have tools that would bring unemployment down without worsening our long-run fiscal outlook, if we can only find the will and the wisdom to use them.''
Her speech came on a rare day of good economic news, which spurred trading on Wall Street. Reports from China and Australia and one concerning American manufacturing were better than expected.
And while one report showed a slight decline in private-sector jobs in August, another showed that layoffs plunged to the lowest level in a decade.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christina D. Romer's last day on the council is Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



51 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: For President And Predecessor, A Chill Returns

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On his first visit back to the White House after leaving the presidency, George W. Bush sat in the Oval Office with his successor, President Obama, for a briefing on the earthquake in Haiti. It was January 2010 -- nearly a year to the day after Mr. Bush left office -- and it seemed, at the time, like a door might be opening between the two men.
But the door, it seems, has remained closed. Seven months would pass before they spoke again. 
That conversation took place on Tuesday, hours before Mr. Obama strode into the Oval Office and informed the nation that he was ending America's combat mission in Iraq, the war he had opposed since Mr. Bush started it. The conversation was brief and perfunctory, former Bush aides said. David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, called it ''a cordial discussion.''
There is, of course, no obligation for presidents to keep in touch with their predecessors, and there is no evidence that Mr. Obama and Mr. Bush bear any ill will toward each other. But their relations do seem particularly awkward -- or, more precisely, nonexistent.
That is most likely a result of the politics of the moment. Since the outset of his presidency, Mr. Obama has lamented that he inherited two unfinished wars and an economy in grave recession -- a not-so-subtle dig at Mr. Bush, even if Mr. Obama rarely mentions him by name. And as he travels around the country campaigning for fellow Democrats, Mr. Obama has been likening the economy to a car and complaining that Republicans ''drove the car into a ditch.''
That can make for pretty short conversation. The two leaders ran into each other in August 2009 at the funeral of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, but did not speak. In January, Mr. Obama asked Mr. Bush and former President Bill Clinton to join hands to raise money for Haiti, which gave rise to Mr. Bush's White House visit. (Mr. Clinton was also there.)
But one Bush adviser, granted anonymity to discuss private conversations with the former president, said he knew of just one ''authentic conversation'' between the two. It took place shortly before Mr. Obama's inaugural, when his mother-in-law expressed unease at moving to Washington from Chicago.
''I think President Bush pulled her aside and said, 'It's very important for your granddaughters, I think you ought to do that, this is the kind of life you can have here,' '' the aide said. ''And I understand President Obama was very appreciative of that. But besides that, it really has not been any relationship.''
For Mr. Obama, Tuesday's telephone call to Mr. Bush was a political imperative. It is no secret that he opposed the Iraq war, and that as a senator he took a dim view of Mr. Bush's ''surge,'' the 2007 troop buildup that many military analysts credit with helping to stabilize Iraq. Leading up to Tuesday night's address, Republicans were clamoring for Mr. Obama to give the former president credit.
He did not. Instead, he said simply that he had spoken to Mr. Bush earlier in the day, and that while their disagreements were well-known, ''no one could doubt President Bush's support for our troops, or his love of country and commitment to our security.''
The White House declined to discuss the thinking behind that language. But Bush loyalists on Wednesday were more than a little miffed by it.
''I'm curious why he mentioned President Bush at all if he wasn't going to give him credit for the surge,'' said Gordon Johndroe, who was spokesman for Mr. Bush's National Security Council. A former top Bush speechwriter and strategist, Peter Wehner, said the mention of Mr. Bush ''was at best pro forma; at worst, it was patronizing.''
Of course, Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama are hardly the first current and former presidents to operate at a distance. Dwight D. Eisenhower barely spoke to Harry S. Truman. Franklin D. Roosevelt practically banned Herbert Hoover from the White House. And Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton had almost no contact in the early months of the Bush presidency.
That changed on Sept. 11, 2001; Mr. Clinton had been traveling in Australia, and the Bush administration dispatched a military plane to get him home. Two days later they saw each other at the National Cathedral memorial service, a ''kind of a bonding experience,'' said Doug Band, a top aide to Mr. Clinton.
Over the years, their relations eventually warmed, and by the end of Mr. Bush's second term, he and Mr. Clinton were talking about every six weeks. Today they are genuine friends and golf partners. And Mr. Clinton is so close to Mr. Bush's father that Mr. Bush has joked that his mother ''calls him my fourth brother.''
That is testimony to a truth about presidential relations: they grow easier when the presidents leave office. Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter were best of friends, but only after both had left the White House; they bonded on a long plane flight to Cairo, when Ronald Reagan sent them to the funeral of Anwar Sadat.
So there may be hope for Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama yet.
As Mr. Band said: ''It's not like there's a manual that says, 'I have to call the former president every six months.' But they grow into the job, and begin to understand that there is a mechanism for using someone who has been there, and can help them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with former Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush in the White House Rose Garden on Jan. 16. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); POLITICS (77%); FUNDRAISING (74%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); TED KENNEDY (58%); DAVID AXELROD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



52 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; DESIGN NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2606 words

HEADLINE: The Audacity Of Taupe

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
THE Oval Office has been tweaked, in a makeover orchestrated by the California decorator Michael Smith. In response, television audiences and the blogosphere seemed to produce a collective yawn: too brown, too dowdy, too ho hum, they pronounced as one.
It is a subtle redo: The desk is still Resolute, a gift from Queen Victoria to Rutherford B. Hayes, built from pieces of a salvaged Arctic discovery vessel. (With the exception of Johnson, Nixon and Ford, every president has used it.) The gold silk damask curtains installed by Barack Obama's predecessor are also unchanged.
What is new? A rug woven with quotations from Martin Luther King Jr., John F. Kennedy and others; two fawn-colored cotton-rayon sofas; two elegant midnight-blue lamps by Christopher Spitzmiller; and an extremely contemporary mica coffee table from Roman Thomas, a New York furnituremaker. 
Some context: Mr. Smith, 45, has made lushly elegant, grown-up rooms for moguls like Peter Chernin, the former president and chief executive of the News Corporation, and Howard Marks, chairman of Oaktree Capital, as well as Hollywood demi-celebrities like Cindy Crawford and Gigi Levangie Grazer, the novelist and ex-wife of the producer Brian Grazer. Though known for being tight-lipped and protective of his clientele, Mr. Smith was an interesting choice for the Obamas, being neither too establishment, nor too local -- too Chicago. (Someone close to him said that the connection was through a Chicago client who was a big supporter of the president.)
Though no taxpayer money was spent -- there is a fund fed by private donations for White House decor -- there were the inevitable howls of protest on the timing and the taste. Yesterday morning, Ann Curry, the ''Today'' show anchor, greeted her guest Margaret Russell, the new editor of Architectural Digest and a close friend of the press-shy Michael Smith, by reading a few snarky viewer comments.
''She said someone said it looked like a law office in a strip mall,'' Ms. Russell said later. ''I said, 'Oh, my gosh, that's just mean.' Everyone is a critic and everyone is a decorator. That room is quintessentially American. America is not gilded or glitzy or fancy-pants. Although it is a public room and everyone feels the need to comment on it, it is also the president's office and he can do whatever he wants to it.''
And anyway, Ms. Russell added fiercely, ''In our business, the client is always right, and from what I've heard, the client is happy.''
William Seale, a White House historian, thought Mr. Obama had received a very practical redecoration. ''The room has been calmed down, perhaps because it is actually used more than usual. It is, in my opinion, more welcoming to a person entering it who is overwhelmed by where he or she is.''
He also pointed out that, historically, the Oval Office didn't get much tweaking until the Kennedy administration. ''F.D.R.'s curtains and upholstery greeted Eisenhower, and he used them; then Eisenhower marked up the floor with his golf cleats,'' he said. ''President Ford had the room de-bugged, and the walls were so full of bugging wires he nearly had to tear them down to get them all out.''
The Home Section asked decorators, pundits and others for their reactions to the makeover. Here is what they thought.
Ellen Lupton
Curator of contemporary design, Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum.
The rug is this room's big oval opportunity. If I were judging the changing decor of the Oval Office on its carpet alone, I'd give the prize to Laura Bush for tweaking its geometry as well as revealing more of the room's spectacular wood floor. The first President Bush and Bill Clinton both plunked a presidential seal smack in the middle of their oval rugs; Laura Bush boldly pushed the seal away from the center so it wouldn't get boxed in by a bunch of rectangles -- couches, chairs, tables. Obama's new rug plays the same game with geometry, but floats the off-center seal in a big, bland field of beige. Among the elements Obama has preserved from the former occupant's office decor: two drop-leaf, oval-shaped end tables that flank the blocky couches and Rembrandt Peale's ovoid portrait of George Washington. Oh, I like it.
Arianna Huffington
Editor of The Huffington Post and author of ''Third World America,'' out next week.
It's very cautious, neutral, inoffensive, neither one thing nor the other -- the Audacity of Taupe. It looks a little like the decor you'd expect to see in a hotel, the Taupe Executive Room at the Embassy Suites. But I applaud the switch from flowers to a bowl of fruit on the new coffee table. In times of great economic hardship, it makes a world of sense to be able to eat the centerpiece if necessary.
I also like the fact that the new Oval Office rug was made in unemployment-ravaged Michigan, creating a micro green shoot of sorts (actually a micro wheat-and-cream shoot, to be more precise). But the decision to festoon the new carpet with quotes from Lincoln, F.D.R., J.F.K., Teddy Roosevelt and Martin Luther King seems a tad Hallmark-y, and a little prepubescent -- something Sasha's fellow fourth graders might suggest (Malia's seventh-grade friends would probably find it ''lame''). What's next, adding the doodle of a heart with ''Barack + Michelle''? And isn't falling back on F.D.R.'s ''The only thing we have to fear is fear itself'' and Lincoln's ''Government of the people, by the people, for the people'' a bit lacking in imagination? Perhaps the Oval Office bookshelf could use a copy of Bartlett's Book of Less Familiar Quotations.
Sheila Bridges
Decorator.
Overall, I think the Oval Office redesign is consistent with the president's message, and appropriate under the circumstances. I think it would have sent the entirely wrong message had the president and first lady (and their decorator, Michael Smith) chosen a redo that was ostentatious, showy or over the top, given the fact that most of the country is suffering from an economic recession that just won't quit (in addition to a growing deficit, thanks in part to our involvement in two wars).
The taupe and beige colors seem reserved and muted, and the furniture styles are somewhat understated. I imagine that this was intentional, as if not to take away from the beautiful and historical antique pieces and portraits that have remained in that room during several presidencies. I like the armchairs that were reupholstered in brown leather -- definitely a timeless, practical and tasteful choice -- as well as the striped wallpaper. Love the blue lamps; every room ought to have a pop of color or something that doesn't fit into the safe-neutral category. Everything looks very comfortable and a lot more casual than it did before. (Bush had much more formal styles in damask on the sofas and a silk stripe on the chairs.) Not sure I love the bowl of fruit -- apples? -- instead of flowers. Do we really believe that any head of state, dignitary or staff member is going to help themselves to an apple while meeting with the President? Besides, what would you do with the core when you were finished?
Jacob Weisberg
Political columnist and chairman of the Slate Group.
The politics here were 1) not to be seen to be spending money on anything frivolous during a recession and 2) not to be seen criticizing his predecessor's taste. He appears to have avoided those pitfalls. Most visitors will be too mesmerized by being in the Oval Office to notice the decoration anyway. If Obama leaves a mark on his presidency, I don't think it will be through his fabric choices.
Marian Salzman
President of Euro RSCG Worldwide PR, North America.
President Obama introduced blue into the overall color scheme in a way that conveys his more holistic commitment to change. Not only is his office warmer -- think caramel -- but it also gives a nod to the environment with the vibrant shades of blue he uses as accent hues. It's a quick, design-y way to say, ''I'm always thinking about the planet and our future generations, even when I am meeting and greeting heads of state, contemplating legislation, or doing whatever presidents do in their private office spaces.''
Miles Redd
Decorator.
I can only imagine how difficult it is to decorate an oval room -- much less for the government -- but I would have to say the room is a success. It is certainly not a paragon of chic, but it hardly could be. What we Americans want is good solid comfort, and I think the room delivers. Pretty sofas, a modern mica coffee table, pleasing stripe on the walls. ...
David Gergen
Senior political analyst at CNN and adviser to four presidents.
I believe it belongs in the category of 'Give the guy a break!' Barack Obama has followed the precedent of several recent presidents by refurnishing the office to fit his own style, and he's done it without using any taxpayer money. Personally, I prefer a more regal office to the muted earth tones of the family den. But so what? I think this is something the president deserves. He deserves to have the surroundings that make him feel comfortable and in which he works best. I don't care so much how he lives; I care how he leads.
Tucker Viemeister
Lab chief at the Rockwell Group.
The two most obvious changes in the redesign are the wallpaper and the fruit bowl. Simple, yet transformative! The striped wallpaper was an easy change with a big impact. It makes the room much more lively -- keeps the president up, while the staff probably ignores it. For the visitor, it adds more excitement to the room, which is already a pretty special experience.
What about the fruit bowl? Who's eating in there? The only guy who's biting into an apple is the president. The staff's hands are always full of papers. But what visitor would grab an apple to eat with the president? I know that nutrition is one of the first lady's missions, but it would be easier to have beer than an apple in the Oval Office.
Toby Israel
Design psychologist, author of ''Some Place Like Home: Using Design Psychology to Create Ideal Places.''
Bush's yellow sunburst rug jumps out at me and screams, ''I am an optimistic (''Mission accomplished''), extroverted, feeling personality type.'' Obama's more sedate beige rug, complete with inspiring quotes, reflects the message, ''Let's slow down and look before we leap'' (a more introverted, thinking personality type?). Overall, both veer towards a traditional Preppy President style. Just swap the official seals and you're in the Harvard/Yale presidents' or corporate C.E.O.'s offices.
Sam Gosling
Professor of psychology at the University of Texas, Austin, and the author of ''Snoop: What Your Stuff Says About You.''
Even places that by their very nature must be subject to a certain degree of stage management hold clues to the personalities and values of the occupants. In this office, a number of features stand out.
1) The quotes bordering the rug are great examples of identity claims, which are deliberate statements directed toward others (e.g., a bumper sticker) and/or the self (e.g., a tattoo located upside down on the inner wrist). Occupants use identity claims to broadcast their values to others and also to remind themselves of the ideas that they hold dear. The fact that these claims are deliberate does not mean they are disingenuous; in fact, the vast majority of identity claims are authentic reflections of the ideas and values of the person making them (e.g., the quotes that people often append to their e-mail signatures). In the case of the rug, the quotes epitomize leaders who were all forward-looking, progressive people living in challenging times, people who were both dreamers and pragmatic at the same time. Their deliberate and explicit placement here signal the occupants' core values.
2) The family photos on the table by the window. Rather than serving purely as ''social snacks,'' as would be the case if the family photos were on the desk facing toward the occupant's chair, these images serve as identity claims. Their placement shows that they are not merely for the occupant's own benefit, but something he's proud of and wishes to project to others.
3) In comparison with the previous decor, which was very traditional and conventional, the new office is more stylish (e.g., the sofas, lamps and coffee table) and more complex (e.g., the wallpaper and the non-symmetrical pillows), which would suggest that the new occupant is higher on the personality trait Openness to New Experiences. Both the old and new offices are inviting, which signal extroverted occupants.
Sally Quinn
Washington Post columnist.
Bush's room says, ''Let's have a glass of sherry while we sign the treaty.'' Obama's room says, ''This is serious. We don't have time to waste. Double espresso anyone?'' The message is this: whoever is in that office has the most stressful job in the world. Whatever it takes to lessen the pressure and create a calmer and more relaxed atmosphere is the only thing that matters. They can decorate the room in all black, all purple or like a circus tent if they like. Whatever works for them is fine with me.
Dominique Browning
Former editor in chief, House & Garden.
All those earth tones. Brown upon rust upon ochre upon ...drab. We're dangerously close to Harvest Gold here, folks. This office does not inspire confidence. The presidential team is clearly trying to project a laidback, we-don't-do-decorating image -- and why? Design matters. We judge books -- and presidents -- by their covers, at least at first glance. Obama's office looks small and subdued; it could be the TV room in anyone's house. The Bush version could have used tweaking; it is a tad on the fussy, nouveau-suburban side, but at least it is light, airy and elegant, as befits the office. And those blue stripes on the side chairs have panache. The Bush carpet -- and each President commissions his own -- wins hands down; those radiating stripes are wonderfully bold.
Deborah Needleman
Former editor of Domino magazine and editor in chief of WSJ magazine.
It's an impossible task to redecorate the Oval Office while trying to look like you're not really redecorating and not spending any money. The result seems to reflect Obama's inherent caution and his decent taste. All the individual pieces, like the custom sofa, the mica coffee table and blue lamps, are so much nicer than the pieces in Bush's Oval Office, which were a bit tacky and hotel-like. But I'm not sure the overall feeling or message is improved.
The question to ask is, if you had to go sit on the sofa, put your feet up and read a brief, which one would you choose? Or if you had to assemble advisers to discuss policy? While Obama's is in better taste, from the photos, Bush's feels more stately -- the room seems lighter and brighter, and thus more optimistic. These are serious times, but we don't want policy emanating from a room that feels too somber.
Andy Borowitz
Comedian.
First of all, Bush's office had no phone, which confirms my suspicion that he wasn't the one making the important calls during his presidency. But on the other hand, Bush did appear to have more books than Obama, which is shocking. It just shows that you can't read too much into a man's decor. The one thing both Oval Offices have in common is neither man appears to be there in August.
Ann Coulter
Author of ''Guilty: Liberal 'Victims' and Their Assault on America.''
The Oval Office has just gotten a complete makeover, and I understand some more Oval Office changes are planned for 2012.
Stephen Drucker
Editor in chief, Town & Country.
Decorating is the last subject we need in the national debate right now. Even in the best of times, taste is not a subject that brings people together.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EARTH TONES: The Oval Office, revamped by Michael Smith, a California decorator, features fawn-colored cotton velvet sofas, a mica coffee table and a new rug ringed with inspirational quotes. Left, Mr. Obama's predecessor's office. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
LEFT, SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D1)
ULTIMATE HOME OFFICE: Mr. Obama's Oval Office, above, is espresso-hued, like an urban boutique hotel lobby
his predecessor's, below left, was cornfield yellow
and Mr. Clinton's blues and golds, below, were brash and loud. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE, DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BELOW, J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 FAR LEFT, RON EDMONDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); COTTON FABRICS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); WRITERS (66%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (69%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (69%); NWS (ASX) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BRIAN GRAZER (58%); PETER CHERNIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



53 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: State Judge Interrupts New York Plan to Tax Cigarettes Sold on Indian Reservations

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS; Tim Stelloh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A state law to tax cigarettes sold by Indian tribes in New York had barely gotten off the ground on Wednesday when a state appellate court judge brought it to a halt, blocking an effort that Gov. David A. Paterson said could help stabilize the state's finances.
The judge's decision, to stop the state temporarily from enforcing its plan, came a day after a federal court ruling prohibiting tax collections specifically on cigarettes sold by the Seneca and Cayuga Nations, two of the largest tribes in the state. 
But the Paterson administration said it was determined to carry on the fight and make its case in court. ''We believe the state's legal arguments are sound and we believe that ultimately the state will prevail in this matter,'' Jessica Bassett, a spokeswoman for the governor, said in a statement.
The stakes are high for all sides. State officials say the $4.94-a-pack charge could generate $150 million in revenue for the state by March and would help discourage people from smoking, ultimately reducing the cost of health care. Cigarette vendors who compete with Indian smoke shops say the taxes could help their sales by leveling the price of cigarettes sold inside and outside tribal areas.
While some tribes are insulated by diverse economies, the taxes could be crippling for others. For the Shinnecock Nation on eastern Long Island, for example, cigarette sales are its financial backbone, and the smoke shops are the largest employers of its 1,200 members. The tribe earned federal recognition less than three months ago.
''There's no way, shape or form -- and maybe the governor hasn't been to any of the reservations to see the locations of these communities -- but no one is going to come to us to buy cigarettes at the same price as their local 7-Eleven,'' said Lance Gumbs, a Shinnecock senior trustee and smoke shop owner. That, he said, ''means we're out of business, which means we're out of jobs.''
Because federal law exempts goods made and sold on tribal areas from being taxed, well-established and larger tribes like the Seneca and Oneida Nations upstate are moving to manufacture cigarettes on their land. There is already an idle cigarette plant in Seneca territory in western New York; the Oneidas are in the process of moving a cigarette plant they operated outside their territory onto their land.
Both tribes operate casinos and other businesses, too. The Senecas run a construction company, and the Oneidas operate a car repair shop and a full-service marina on the shores of Oneida Lake in central New York.
''We're looking to develop more manufacturing for our own economic development, open our own grocery stores and clothing shops, so that the money our members make in the reservation stays in the reservation,'' said Barry E. Snyder Sr., the president of the Seneca Nation. ''This battle over taxes proved to us that we need to keep on diversifying.''
It has also raised questions over how far a state can go to impose its rules on Indian tribes. Cigarette sales on tribal land to tribal members are exempt from state excise taxes, but federal courts have found that cigarettes sold to non-Indians are not exempt from state taxes unless a tribe receives an exemption.
The law Mr. Paterson wants to carry out tries to accommodate that. It allows tribes to buy a certain number of cigarette packs tax-free, to be sold to their members. Anything exceeding that quota would be taxed, presumably because the packs would be sold to non-Indians.
Two past governors -- Mario M. Cuomo in 1992 and George E. Pataki in 1997 -- tried to tax cigarettes sold by Indians, but their efforts ended after violent protests from some of the tribes.
Mr. Paterson's attempt, so far, has drawn only mild protest. At a rally outside the Senecas' Cattaraugus Indian Reservation on Wednesday, people chanted and waved posters depicting Mr. Paterson with a cowboy hat and a revolver, above the words: ''I'm hunting Indians. You see any?''
Nine states have laws or rules regulating the taxing of cigarettes sold by Indian tribes. In Minnesota, for example, tribes agree to buy cigarettes from licensed distributors, which collect applicable taxes. South Dakota collects state and tribal taxes from four tribes, and the tribes and the state split the revenue.
New York's law would require wholesalers to prepay sales and excise taxes on every cigarette pack they sell to retailers. The payment would be made when the wholesalers bought tax stamps, which must be affixed to the packs. The wholesalers would then request refunds for the packs sold tax-free to the members of Indian tribes.
Previously, wholesalers were not required to buy tax stamps for cigarettes bound for Indian reservations.
The order issued on Wednesday, by Senior Associate Justice Samuel L. Green of the Fourth Department of the State Appellate Division in Rochester, delays but does not derail the state's effort to collect the taxes. The parties are to argue their case on Sept. 9 before a full panel of the appellate court.
''Our strategy is to continue our fight in the courts,'' said Mr. Snyder, the Seneca president. ''And this fight isn't over yet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TOBACCO STORES (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); SMOKING (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); LAKES (64%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (53%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



54 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Financial Crisis Panel Lends Sympathetic Ear to Lehman's Ex-Chief

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the nearly two years since Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy, its former chief executive, Richard S. Fuld Jr., has often seemed a tragic and solitary figure, telling anyone who would listen that the investment bank could have survived if only it had had more time -- and received a bailout like the government gave other Wall Street banks.
The Bush and Obama administrations and the Federal Reserve have scoffed at those assertions, saying that a government-led rescue of Lehman was beyond their authority, a result of a gap in the financial regulatory architecture that has now been fixed. 
But on Wednesday, Mr. Fuld got a fairly sympathetic hearing from an unlikely quarter: the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission asked by Congress to investigate the causes of the 2008 crisis.
The commission's six-and-a-half-hour hearing Wednesday, which also covered the sale of Wachovia to Wells Fargo, did not focus on Lehman's responsibility for its own undoing, including its excessive leveraging and speculative investments. Nor did it question the accounting gimmicks, known as Repo 105, that Lehman had used to conceal some of its debt, as a court-appointed bankruptcy examiner detailed in March.
Mr. Fuld, in his third appearance on Capitol Hill since Lehman's bankruptcy panicked markets, offered yet again his account of events.
''Lehman was forced into bankruptcy not because it neglected to act responsibly or seek solutions to the crisis, but because of a decision, based on flawed information, not to provide Lehman with the support given to each of its competitors and other nonfinancial firms in the ensuing days,'' Mr. Fuld said.
Two top lawyers for the Fed -- Scott G. Alvarez, who represents the central bank's board of governors, and Thomas C. Baxter Jr., general counsel of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York -- disagreed.
''The Federal Reserve did not 'allow' Lehman Brothers to die,'' Mr. Baxter told the panel. The Fed, the Treasury Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission, which nominally oversaw the investment banks, ''tried hard to save it,'' he said.
''We did not succeed, but the effort made was serious and determined,'' Mr. Baxter said. ''We came very close.''
Several commission members, including the chairman, Phil Angelides, did not appear convinced. He said there seemed to have been a ''conscious policy decision'' to let Lehman fail.
But in a back-and-forth that revealed the divisions in the 10-member commission, another commission member, Keith Hennessey, who was an economic adviser to President George W. Bush, said it was not clear what other options policy makers at the time had.
The Lehman bankruptcy stands out as a rare instance when the government did not step in. Just six months earlier, the Fed lent $29 billion to facilitate the sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase. The day after the bankruptcy, the Fed provided $85 billion to bail out the American International Group.
Then it let Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley become classified as bank holding companies, which helped to stabilize their positions. And finally, Congress passed the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program to rescue the financial services industry.
Mr. Baxter said the New York Fed did not have legal authority to provide a '''naked' guarantee, one that would be unsecured and not limited in amount, and would put the U.S. taxpayers at risk for the entirety of Lehman's trading obligations.''
In contrast to Lehman, Mr. Baxter said, Bear Stearns had a buyer, JPMorgan Chase, to assure that its deals would go through. A.I.G. had ''sufficient collateral,'' in its sound retail businesses, to back up the Fed's lending commitments.
Mr. Fuld said other investment banks were allowed to benefit from a Fed lending program.
''Only Lehman was denied that access,'' he said. ''I submit that had Lehman been granted that same access as its competitors, even as late as that Sunday evening, Lehman would have had time for at least an orderly wind-down or for an acquisition, which would have alleviated the crisis that ensued.''
Harvey R. Miller, Lehman's bankruptcy lawyer, seemed to lend support to Mr. Fuld, saying that Lehman's assets were sold at fire-sale prices unnecessarily.
''When somebody comes to the emergency room and is on the operating table hemorrhaging, you don't ask if you can pay the surgeon,'' Mr. Miller said. ''You save the patient.''
Mr. Baxter said a Fed loan would have been a ''bridge to nowhere,'' while Mr. Alvarez said the Fed could not make loans that it believed would never be repaid.
''If the Federal Reserve had lent to Lehman that Monday,'' Mr. Alvarez said, ''this hearing and all other hearings would only have been about how we wasted taxpayers' money.''
He added, ''I think they failed not because government wasn't willing to help them, but because they were a victim of circumstances, the economy and some bad decisions they had made in the years leading up that they didn't have time to get out of.''
Comments by several commission members suggested that the panel's final report, due in December, would home in on the controversial way the bailouts of 2008 were conducted.
''There are many candidates this fall for Congress who are running on a platform of 'no more bailouts' and are committing themselves not to support programs like the TARP should they get elected,'' said Bob Graham, a Democratic commissioner and a former senator from Florida. The commission's vice chairman, Bill Thomas, a California Republican and a former House member, said he wished Mr. Fuld would attend field hearings the commission plans to hold to hear from homeowners devastated by the crisis.
''I wish I could have you all along so you can appreciate and understand why this coming election in November is under a whole lot more turmoil than anybody thought it was going to be,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard S. Fuld Jr., ex-chief of Lehman Brothers, before the financial crisis panel. (B1)
 Robert Steel, above, former president of the Wachovia Corporation, testified Wednesday at a hearing on the causes of the 2008 financial crisis. Richard Fuld, below left, former chief of Lehman Brothers, spoke with Harvey Miller, Lehman's bankruptcy lawyer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (63%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (64%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); KEITH HENNESSEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



55 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; UP CLOSE NOAH TEPPERBERG; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: A Club Mogul Can't Avoid the Spotlight

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
IT was a steamy Wednesday night, and Avenue, the impossible-to-get-into club in Chelsea, was dripping with celebrities. LeBron James looked South Beach casual in a black T-shirt and baseball cap. Chris Paul sported a Yankees cap. The actors Chace Crawford and Wilmer Valderrama smiled for the cameras.
And then there was that guy. In almost every party photo, standing head to shoulders with the beaming celebrities, was the same round-looking guy, with a shiny bald head and Converse sneakers. The bodyguard? The accountant?
Actually, he was the guest of honor, Noah Tepperberg. And not only was he the birthday boy, but he is also an owner of the club. LeBron, in other words, was in his posse. 
Not that Mr. Tepperberg, 35, seeks attention. Unlike other nightlife impresarios who cultivate their own celebrity -- Andre Balazs, Amy Sacco, Sean MacPherson and Paul Sevigny come to mind -- Mr. Tepperberg carries himself as a regular guy who grew up in downtown Manhattan and just happened to hustle his way into all the right clubs.
''If I had my choice, I'd be behind the scenes, and nobody would even know who I am,'' he said.
But it's getting harder for him to stay in the shadows. As a ringmaster of Chelsea nightclubs like Marquee and Avenue, Mr. Tepperberg, along with his professional partner, Jason Strauss, presided over some of the city's most enduring celebrity playpens of recent years.
And now, with the city's clubland pushing into new neighborhoods, Mr. Tepperberg and his partners are opening one of this season's most anticipated new party spaces: Lavo, a Southern Italian-style restaurant and nightclub on East 58th Street -- a staid neighborhood that, aside from Tao across the street, is better known for its office towers and business hotels. Lavo doesn't officially open until Sept. 15 (several private parties will be held there for Fashion Week), but Mr. Tepperberg already knows he'll be working the room, glad-handing the V.I.P.'s and looking after their every need -- imagine Sirio Maccioni of Le Cirque, if he rarely ironed his shirts and spoke in a gruff bookie mumble.
''When a celebrity comes into the club, I'll pull up a napkin, and I'll wipe off the seat,'' Mr. Tepperberg said. ''I think that they respect that I'm going out of my way to make sure that they're going to be O.K.''
But Mr. Tepperberg is more than just hospitable. He has a gregarious charm and an ability to establish a quick rapport with seemingly everybody in the nightlife world -- from the coat-check girl to the latest It Boy.
It's a skill he learned early, as an unlikely club kid. Mr. Tepperberg grew up in the West Village, the fourth of five children of a pediatric neurologist father and a travel-editor mother, and was talking his way into clubs like Mars and M.K. by the time he was a sophomore at Stuyvesant High School.
But he wasn't there just to party; he was sizing up the business. At 15, he was already promoting parties at places like the Roxy, getting a cut of the door tickets.
''Growing up,'' he said, ''my friends were all De Niro's kid, Liv Tyler -- the kind of well-heeled younger people who a lot of these clubs wanted to have.''
In 1993, he enrolled at the University of Miami. It was a fortuitous time, with South Beach starting to explode. By day, he studied business; by night, he crawled the same Ocean Drive turf as Madonna. Whenever he was home, he promoted parties with Mr. Strauss, a friend from his teenage years.
They opened their first club, Conscience Point in Southampton, N.Y., in their early 20s. At its peak, the club was considered the coolest thing on the South Fork, but it will always be remembered as the place where the publicist Lizzie Grubman slammed her Mercedes S.U.V. into a crowd. By that time they had already opened Suite 16, a Chelsea lounge that generated a flash of Page Six mentions.
Despite the glamour, Mr. Tepperberg said he never forgot that it was a business. The partners showed how to manufacture a scene on an industrial scale: bringing together the raw materials -- celebrities, status-hungry investment bankers and outlandishly priced bottles of vodka -- in a factory-size space and stamping out profits.
In fact, a class at Harvard Business School published a case study about Marquee last year, lauding the club's huge mark-ups on liquor (selling a bottle of vodka for 14 times its retail price) and its unusual staying power -- six years and counting, in a fickle business where 18 months is usually considered a good run.
''That's how I approach opening places,'' Mr. Tepperberg explained. ''If I sign a 20-year lease, I approach the business to do the things it takes to get me to year 20.''
That's how he is approaching Lavo. Earlier this month, Mr. Tepperberg, joined by a publicist, led a tour of the space, which includes the former Au Bar, a once-hot club where, it turns out, Mr. Tepperberg worked as a promoter when he was home during college.
The ground floor of Lavo will consist of a 6,000-square-foot bistro with retro touches -- like reclaimed white subway tiles on the wall -- reminiscent of Keith McNally's places. In the basement will be a nightclub with the requisite V.I.P. areas that look out over the dance floor, though Mr. Tepperberg says he isn't trying to create another celebrity hotspot.
Mr. Tepperberg insists that he does not require routine visits by Lindsay Lohan or Jay-Z to make Lavo a success -- professionals and moneyed business travelers will be just fine.
''It's a really grown-up place,'' he said. ''The crowd that will go there to dance will be glamorous, but it won't just be young and beautiful.''
It's a formula that has been perfected in Las Vegas, where the first Lavo opened in 2008, in a partnership between himself and Mr. Strauss, along with Marc Packer and Richard Wolf, who own Tao, the giant Asian restaurant in New York.
Earlier this year, Restaurants & Institutions, a trade magazine that recently ceased publication, named Lavo the seventh top-grossing restaurant in the United States -- Tao Las Vegas was first. (Mr. Strauss now lives in Las Vegas to oversee the partners' operations there.)
And despite the lingering recession, the same partnership plans to open a still-unnamed nightclub at the Cosmopolitan, a new hotel in Las Vegas, on New Year's Eve. Mr. Tepperberg says that it will be one of the biggest nightclubs in the world, at 63,000 square feet.
No matter how grandiose the space, it's a good bet that Mr. Tepperberg will still tend to matters quietly, leaving the stage to the celebrities.
That's how he has always done it, starting in high school, when he got his start by giving wild parties after an annual talent show called ''Sing.''
''The most popular girls and guys were usually the lead of the play,'' he said. ''I never wanted to be onstage. I was the guy who threw the cast party.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PARTY PLANNER: Noah Tepperberg prepares to open Lavo, which will extend clubland to East 58th Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); FASHION DESIGNERS (63%); RESTAURANTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (58%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



56 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Home Builder Hovnanian Posts Smaller Quarterly Loss

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Hovnanian Enterprises, the home builder, posted a smaller quarterly loss on Wednesday as it booked fewer land-related write-downs.
But signed contracts on new homes tumbled 37 percent as demand slowed in the absence of tax credits for home buyers. 
Hovnanian, which is based in Red Bank, N.J., said it lost $72.9 million, or 92 cents a share, in the quarter. That compares with a loss of $168.9 million, or $2.16 a share, in the previous-year period.
The company booked $49 million in pretax land-related charges, mostly on four developments in California and one in New Jersey. That was down from $101.1 million in the same quarter last year.
Revenue in the period, which ended July 31 and was the third quarter of Hovnanian's fiscal year, fell to $380.6 million, from $387.1 million the year before.
Management blamed the weak sales trends in the quarter on flagging consumer confidence resulting from factors like the loss of the tax credit stimulus, weak job creation, volatile stock market prices and the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
''These factors combined to produce slower-than-expected sales throughout our third quarter,'' said Ara K. Hovnanian, the builder's chief executive.
He said July sales were modestly better than in June, while sales in August were significantly better than June's. But he noted that the sales pace in July and August fell short of what it was in the same period last year.
''While far from a normal sales pace, we are hopeful that the stronger selling environment will continue into September and October,'' he said.
Hovnanian and other home builders enjoyed a bump in sales in the spring as affordable prices, low mortgage rates and two federal tax credits lured buyers into the market. But since the tax credits expired at the end of April, the number of people looking to buy has dropped, even with the availability of the lowest mortgage rates in decades.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (62%); OIL SPILLS (52%)

COMPANY: HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (92%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%)

PERSON: ARA K HOVNANIAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); GULF OF MEXICO (69%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (69%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



57 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Index Rose in August

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The United States manufacturing sector picked up its pace in August despite signs of a general slowdown in the economy, according to a report on Wednesday.
In a survey representing hundreds of companies in 18 industries, the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index unexpectedly rose to 56.3 points in August, from 55.5 in July, the trade group said. Analysts had expected a weaker reading of 52.8. A number above 50 indicates growth. 
Manufacturing has been one of the few bright spots in the prospects for recovery, though other recent indicators have pointed to a slowdown over the summer.
Wednesday's report also said that the employment component of the index rose to 60.4, its highest level since December 1983. New orders fell to 53.1 in the index in August, the fourth month that the component has not shown an improvement, and inventories increased.
''Going into this report, we were expecting virtually no job growth in manufacturing payrolls but the increase in this index may mean manufacturing job growth will be a bit north of zero in August,'' Dan Greenhaus, the chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company, wrote in a research note.
The report followed a pattern during the recovery of manufacturing outperforming overall economic growth, said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist at the Manufacturers Alliance-MAPI, an industry group.
''Amidst evidence that the general economy is slowing to a crawl, this report indicates that manufacturing activity continues to grow at a healthy pace,'' he said in a statement, adding that he expected manufacturing ''to decelerate in the near term but still grow faster than overall GDP.''
Economists have said that in order to continue growing manufacturing would need support from other sectors of the economy, including construction, consumer spending and export markets. None, however, have shown indications of a sustained growth. Construction activity, for example, dropped 1 percent in July, the Commerce Department said Wednesday, the third straight monthly decline.
In the Institute for Supply Management index, the decline in new orders injected a note of caution in the outlook.
''Much will depend on the consumer, and we feel that the headwinds for consumer spending (the foremost of which are over-leveraged balance sheets and lingering labor market weakness) remain too brisk to expect substantial help on this front as the year progresses,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist for MFR Inc., wrote in a research note.
Investors are closely watching a trickle of statistics for guidance about the state of the economy. The Dow Jones industrial average rose more than 200 points in early trading on Wednesday.
Another closely watched report on the economy comes Friday with the monthly snapshot of unemployment.
Trading has been tentative ahead of that report, which is expected to show that the nation's economy lost another 100,000 jobs, largely due to layoffs of census workers, and that the unemployment rate rose to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent.
Two days ahead of that report, data released by ADP, a payroll processing company, showed a decline of about 10,000 jobs among private employers in August, against a revised 37,000 gain in July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (73%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



58 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Start September With a Rally

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Manufacturing reports that showed growth in the United States and China helped propel stocks on Wednesday, providing an upbeat start to a new month.
Markets were higher in Asia and Europe on Wednesday after reports showed manufacturing activity picked up slightly in China in August after several months of slender declines.
Investors on Wall Street took notice, and the market charged ahead more than 200 points shortly after the open. It never looked back after the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing survey of hundreds of companies showed surprising growth in its index after previous regional surveys appeared weak. 
Anthony Chan, chief economist for J. P. Morgan Private Wealth Management, said the economic reports gave the markets the momentum they needed to sustain gains through the close on Wednesday, just ahead of the much-anticipated national jobs report on Friday. ''I think the market was certainly pleasantly surprised,'' Mr. Chan said.
Investors, he added, ''saw the two largest economies in the world reporting better P.M.I. surveys,'' referring to purchasing manager indexes. ''They were able to breathe a lot easier after they saw those two reports. There was widespread relief.''
The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 254.75 points, or 2.54 percent, to 10,269.47. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 30.96 points, or 2.95 percent, to 1,080.29, while the Nasdaq composite index gained 62.81 points, or 2.97 percent, to 2,176.84.
The broader market ended with the S.& P. posting its best day since July 7, when it finished up more than 3 percent, as all 10 sectors advanced.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 30/32, to 100 14/32, and the yield rose to 2.57 from 2.47 percent late Tuesday.
The Institute for Supply Management said that its manufacturing index unexpectedly rose to 56.3 in August from 55.5 in July. A reading above 50 indicates growth. The manufacturing sector has expanded for 13 consecutive months. Economists polled by Thomson Reuters had forecast a weaker 53.
The market's surge caught some off-guard in the run-up to a long holiday weekend. Many of the latest economic indicators have clouded investor sentiment.
''I thought this week leading into Labor Day was going to be quiet,'' said Stephen J. Carl, head equity trader at the Williams Capital Group. ''These numbers are kind of contrary to what is going on in the market,'' he said.
The burst of activity came after a closely watched index in China showed that while the pace of expansion in China has moderated, the slowdown had not become a worry. The purchasing managers' index, published by the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing, rose to 51.7, from 51.3 in July.
In the United States, economists have said that in order to continue growing, manufacturing would need support from other sectors of the economy, including construction, consumer spending and export markets.
None, however, have shown indications of a sustained growth. Construction activity, for example, dropped 1 percent in July, the Commerce Department said Wednesday, the third consecutive monthly decline.
Norbert J. Ore, chairman of the Institute for Supply Management's survey committee, said the overall index was propelled by the production and employment indexes. ''We had a strong period of growth in new orders,'' he said.
''A lot of companies cut inventories very sharply, and I think they are coming back and trying to replace some of that inventory right now.''
While the total number was positive, Wednesday's numbers on manufacturing in the United States still conveyed a message that gave reason for caution, Mr. Chan said.
It showed that the employment component of the index rose to 60.4, its highest level since December 1983. But new orders were 53.1 in August, down from 53.5 a month earlier, and inventories were 51.4 in August, compared with 50.2 in July.
Mr. Chan said new orders needed to expand to keep the growth on a sustainable path, but pessimism was ''so thick in the air'' among investors that even a small sign of relief captured the market's attention.
John Canally, economist for LPL Financial, said the data was a welcome reprieve for a market that had been expecting worse after recent regional manufacturing reports preceding Wednesday's national report were mixed.
''It is sort of a relief rally,'' Mr. Canally said. ''The market priced in a bunch of bad news and did not get it. But I don't think this is the beginning of a new re-acceleration of the economy.''
Gains on the S.& P. were broad-based, led by manufacturing, energy and financial shares. Caterpillar was up $3, to $68.16. Exxon Mobil climbed $1.80, to $60.91, as crude oil prices rose to $73.91 a barrel.
Among financial shares, Bank of America gained 76 cents, to $13.21; Wells Fargo jumped $1.11, to $24.66; and JPMorgan Chase rose $1.38, to $37.74.
Shares of the restaurant chain Burger King Holdings rose $2.41, to $18.86, on reports that the company was in advanced talks to sell itself to the private investment firm 3G Capital.
Friday's report on unemployment is expected to show the economy lost 100,000 jobs and that the unemployment rate rose to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent.
Data released Wednesday by ADP, a payroll processing company, showed a decline of 10,000 jobs among private employers in August, against a revised 37,000 gain in July.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about the stock indexes' performance misstated the position of Anthony Chan, who commented on data moving the markets. He is chief economist for J. P. Morgan Private Wealth Management, JPMorgan Chase's client asset management arm -- not for the bank itself.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (57%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (73%); WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP LP (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



59 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
IN MEMOIRS, BLAIR
Stands Firm on Iraq War
When Tony Blair published his memoirs, he leapt into the headlines with a serving of what was essentially old news: that he feels no need to apologize to critics who have cast him as a pariah for his role in precipitating the Iraq war, and that he had a deeply acrimonious relationship for years with Gordon Brown, who succeeded him in 2007. PAGE A6
CHURCH LEADER RESPONDS 
The former leader of the Roman Catholic Church in Belgium, suffering withering criticism after the recent publication of tapes showing him trying to silence a man's account of being sexually abused as a child and youth, has begun distancing himself from the perpetrator, a longtime colleague and friend. PAGE A6
Dozens Killed in Pakistan A13
National
STUDY FINDS A DECREASE
In Illegal Immigrants
The number of illegal immigrants in the United States, after peaking at 12 million in 2007, fell to about 11.1 million in 2009, the first clear decline in two decades, according to a report published by the Pew Hispanic Center. PAGE A20
A VICTORY LAP FOR DUNCAN
Education Secretary Arne Duncan's bus tour through several Northeast states had all the trappings of a political campaign. It was billed as a way to honor teachers, but the road trip also felt like a victory lap after last week's announcement that nine states and the District of Columbia had won the Race to the Top, the Obama administration's most prized education initiative. PAGE A24
RISK SEEN IN DIET PILL
A clinical trial of Meridia, a controversial diet pill, in nearly 10,000 overweight or obese older patients over many years found that the drug increased the risks of heart attacks and strokes while doing little to slim their waists. PAGE A25
New York
COURT BLOCKS STATE TAX
On Tribes' Cigarette Sales
A state law to tax cigarettes sold by Indian tribes in New York had barely gotten off the ground when a state appellate court judge brought it to a halt, blocking an effort that Gov. David A. Paterson said could help stabilize the state's finances. PAGE A28
Christie Accused of Defamation A30
Business
STOCKS START SEPTEMBER
With a Big Rally
Manufacturing reports that showed growth in the United States and China helped propel stocks, providing an upbeat start to a new month.
Markets were higher in Asia and Europe after reports showed manufacturing activity picked up slightly in China in August after several months of slender declines. PAGE B1
OF TWO MINDS ABOUT BOOKS
By the end of this year, 10.3 million people are expected to own e-readers in the United States, buying about 100 million e-books. The trend is wreaking havoc inside the publishing industry, but inside homes, the plot takes a personal twist as couples find themselves torn over the ''right way'' to read. PAGE B1
APPLE'S SOCIAL NETWORKING
Apple jumped into the social networking business, introducing Ping, a service built into iTunes that is intended to help users discover new music and, presumably, buy more songs from Apple. PAGE B3
A SLUGGISH GLOBAL RECOVERY
Manufacturing indexes from various parts of the world underlined the uneven and shaky nature of the global recovery, with activity picking up a notch in the economic powerhouse of China but cooling in the euro zone and several other Asian countries. PAGE B7
Sports
A DANCE TEAM DISAPPEARS
From Basketball Games
In each of Turkey's last three games at the World Basketball Championships, a dance team from Ukraine known as the Red Foxes that had been performing during timeouts has disappeared. While the sentiment here is that the scantily clad dancers were pulled to avoid performing in front of Turkish government officials, no one can agree to exactly why. PAGE B13
Arts
PLAYING AS THE TALIBAN
In a New Video Game
Electronic Arts is set to release a first-person-combat title called Medal of Honor, which is set during the Western war in Afghanistan that followed the Sept. 11 attacks. But in the online multiplayer mode, one side will be the Americans and the other side will play the role of Taliban fighters. And that -- at least to politicians in Britain, Canada and New Zealand -- is a problem. PAGE C1
SEND IN THE HEARTTHROB
Justin Bieber is a bona fide teen-pop dreamboat in an otherwise barren post-Jonas Brothers era. But Jon Caramanica writes that in his first headlining show at Madison Square Garden, it is clear that Mr. Bieber has the sketch of stardom down cold, but has yet to color heavily in between the lines. PAGE C1
Home
HOME IS WHERE
The Exemption Is
State and local governments are cracking down on people for improperly claiming something called the homestead exemption. But as the tax authorities look for cheats, they are finding that many people who are eligible for homestead exemptions fail to apply for them, even though the exemptions can provide valuable breaks on property taxes as well as protection from creditors.
In the Garden D6
Thursday Styles
COSMETICS FOR MEN BECOME A BULL MARKET
Whether they admit it or not, more men are using cosmetics, judging from sales figures and the number of new products arriving on store shelves. But please don't call it ''makeup'' -- cosmetics marketers pointedly steer clear of the term, which men tend to find emasculating. PAGE E3
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A35
NICHOLAS D.KRISTOF PAGE A35

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); TRENDS (78%); RELIGION (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); STROKES (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (69%); DIETING (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); OBESITY (64%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (64%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); JUDGES (64%); HEART DISEASE (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (62%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (62%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); CHILD ABUSE (55%); NATIVE AMERICANS (54%); POLITICS (51%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%); ARNE DUNCAN (65%); GORDON BROWN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); BELGIUM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



60 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Murkowski Concedes Senate Race in Alaska

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
ANCHORAGE -- Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska conceded late Tuesday in her Republican primary race against Joe Miller, a lawyer from Fairbanks who was backed by Tea Party activists, Sarah Palin and other conservatives.
Mr. Miller shocked the political establishment here and in Washington last week when he emerged with a narrow lead, 1,668 votes, after the primary vote, on Aug. 24. His victory makes him the presumed favorite to win the Senate seat from this heavily Republican state.
Mr. Miller, who has proposed drastic cuts in federal spending, had trailed badly in local polls in the weeks before the election but benefited from a last-minute flood of advertisements, mailings and automated calls casting Ms. Murkowski as a Democrat in disguise. An abortion-related ballot measure also brought conservatives to the polls. 
''Now is the time for all Alaskans to come together and reach out with our core message of taking power from the federal government and bringing it back home to the people,'' Mr. Miller said in a written statement. '' If we continue to allow the federal government to live beyond its means, we will all soon have to live below ours.''
Many people said Ms. Murkowski's failure to respond aggressively to Mr. Miller's attacks, including some that distorted her voting record, had played an important role in her defeat. But she suggested on Tuesday that she had no regrets.
''I'm so proud of the campaign that we conducted,'' she told reporters at her campaign headquarters here as dozens of friends and family members surrounded her and cheered. ''It was honest. It was upright. It was energetic. It was what a campaign in Alaska should be.''
''We stayed on the high road,'' Ms. Murkowski said. ''We talked about how we move the state of Alaska forward.''
Her concession followed the counting of about 17,000 additional ballots in the race on Tuesday, which left Mr. Miller with a lead of 1,630 votes out of about 104,000 cast. Several thousand more votes were to be counted on Friday, but the trend suggested Ms. Murkowski would not gain enough ground to win.
''Based on where we are right now, I don't see a scenario where the primary will turn out in my favor,'' she said.
At one point on Tuesday, Mr. Miller's lead narrowed to 1,210 votes, with several thousand votes still outstanding from Southeast Alaska, a stronghold for Ms. Murkowski.
''It should break pretty heavily our way -- hopefully, really heavy,'' John Bitney, Ms. Murkowski's campaign manager, said of the region at one point.
That did not happen.
Mr. Miller's victory surprised even many of his own supporters. Polls had showed Ms. Murkowski with a comfortable lead throughout the spring and summer.
Yet many voters had mixed feelings about her because she supports abortion rights and has voted for several Obama administration measures. Many voters also disliked the fact that she was initially appointed to her seat in 2002 by her father, Frank H. Murkowski, when he was governor.
Still, the final rush of campaigning on behalf of Mr. Miller startled many people.
Janet Kincaid, a longtime friend of Ms. Palin and her parents but a supporter of Ms. Murkowski, said in an interview after Election Day that she had been surprised by the number of Miller supporters who appeared on street corners in the conservative Matanuska-Susitna Valley in the last week. The area includes Wasilla, Ms. Palin's hometown.
''At every intersection they had hordes of volunteers,'' Ms. Kincaid said. ''We had a great rally in the valley for Lisa, too. Lots of good people were there any everyone was cheering for her, but we're old guard and not necessarily the new one.''
Mr. Miller, who has a law degree from Yale and has been a federal magistrate in Fairbanks, will face Scott T. McAdams, the mayor of Sitka in Southeast Alaska, who won the Democratic primary.
Alaska voters lean hard to Republican candidates, but Democrats have pointed to early polls showing Mr. McAdams within striking distance. They say they will portray Mr. Miller as an extreme conservative out of line with the state's more pragmatic politicians, who have largely focused on bringing federal money to Alaska. Economists say about one third of the state's economy is dependent on federal spending.
One of those pragmatic politicians was former Senator Ted Stevens, who died in a plane crash on Aug. 9. Mr. Stevens had long been Ms. Murkowski's mentor, but her campaign decided not to use ads featuring him so soon after his death out of concern it would appear disrespectful. On Tuesday, however, as Ms. Murkowski conceded and some of her supporters cried, a large photograph of her and Mr. Stevens loomed above them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BALLOTS (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%)

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (91%); SARAH PALIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (91%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (90%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010



61 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2010

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: The End of the Summer Reading Challenge and Our Final Favorite

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Reflections on our 14-week Summer Reading Student Challenge, and our final favorite.

 BODY:
This is it! We ran our New York Times Summer Reading Challenge for 14 weeks, and last week was, well, the last week. 
All told, we received hundreds of entries, including many posts that came, judging from signature appendices like "JCHS" and "BSGE2014" and "Ms.B_Crvr," from a handful of schools. 
We think the entries (especially all 14 "favorites") should be required reading for anyone who thinks and cares about young people - especially those who are prone to starting sentences with the phrase "Kids today ". 
Many adults, we bet, would be impressed by the numerous thoughtful comments on world events, global issues, scientific breakthroughs and politics. Even the comments we received on pop culture icons like Miley Cyrus tended to be nuanced and sophisticated. 
We have to admit that even we, who have enormous faith in young people, were often pleasantly surprised by what students gravitated toward on NYTimes.com. Some were drawn by items they had a personal connection to and native interest in, while others' interest was piqued by what seemed unfamiliar and exotic.
Week after week, students showed nimbleness of mind and empathy of heart. By turns, they made connections to material they read and learned in school, shared personal anecdotes and discussed how their minds had been changed and horizons broadened by reading The New York Times. 
Though we weren't total sticklers for grammar and mechanics, we certainly appreciated entries that showed evidence of careful crafting, editing and proofreading. Many of these entries are excellent examples of how young writers can develop a natural, authentic voice and style without sacrificing technical proficiency. And we found quite compelling the posts that were clearly heartfelt and genuine. 
It was obvious to us that most of our entrants took seriously the opportunity that the challenge presented, and - like many of our daily Student Opinion commenters - were mindful that their contributions were, in a sense, being published on NYTimes.com. 
This week was no different. 
Among the many strong contenders this week were three who wrote on disparate topics: LydiaBSGE2014, who (like a recent "favorite") was moved by the coverage of impoverished and starving children in India; MaxwellJCHS, who opined on the football preseason; and Poy, who shared insights on the practice of Anglicizing names.
In the end, Katherine, Shannon and I had the same favorite - and, funny enough, it happened to be the very first post of the week, by Carly, age 16, from Chicago. 
Carly was among those who examined and carefully analyzed images and multimedia this summer, in this case the photo slide show "North Little Rock Finds Its Cool," about the transformation of a neighborhood known as Dogtown in North Little Rock, Ark. She then explored the drawbacks of gentrification and put the neighborhood's apparent improvement into the context of the economic recession.
Here's what she said: The change from "Dogtown" to the "Argenta Arts District" in North Little Rock seems simple in this photo slide show, but there may be more to consider.
In this slide show people are shown eating "three-course, prix fixe dinner[s] (about $50, with wine pairings)" and shopping at vintage store where prices go up to $1,000 for a "Barcelona chair". From an environment which used to be described as "urban desolation" and is now "giving way to urban cool", are there people who are experiencing loss? Is there a gentrification factor to the transformation of this community? I have never been to or heard of North Little Rock before, but the clean and classy scenes in this slide show could be scenes from the upscale and highly gentrified areas of my city, Chicago. Where before people may have been struggling to get by, now, people drink vintage wines and have access to art galleries. It's hard for me to think North Little Rock's growth spurt could have gone so smoothly as not to exclude some people who can't afford to live in "the new town homes and restored houses [that] are making this a place to be." While looking at this slideshow, I thought of gentrification because though it is a worldwide problem (and prevalent in many areas of Chicago) it can be difficult to photograph, and can be seen looking at many areas in our world with a different perspective.
Congratulations, Carly!
And finally, we've been curious about what drew our entrants to the challenge, especially those who returned week after week to participate, and about what the experience was like. If you entered this summer and want to share your thoughts and feedback (including ideas for future student challenges!), please do so in the comment box below. 
Many, many thanks to all students who participated in the challenge. We hope that reading The Times livened up your summer a bit. We look forward to hearing from you on our Student Opinion feature during the school year!

        
Student Challenge Favorite | Kindergarten Redshirts
        
Student Challenge Favorite | A Right to Eat
        
Student Challenge Favorite | Deconstructing Materialism
        
Student Challenge Favorite | The Twittering Self
        
Student Challenge Favorite | Housewives

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (76%); CHILD POVERTY (70%); WRITERS (69%); RECESSION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); STARVATION (60%); SCIENCE NEWS (54%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (54%) student challenge favorite; summer reading; student challenge; Summer Special

PERSON: MILEY CYRUS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



62 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing AUSTRALIA; Leader Makes Progress on Achieving a Majority

BYLINE: By MERAIAH FOLEY

 BODY:
SYDNEY, Australia --Prime Minister Julia Gillard cleared another hurdle on Thursday in her bid to break Australia's first parliamentary deadlock in 70 years, winning the tentative support of an independent legislator from Tasmania.
Andrew Wilkie, a 48-year-old former intelligence officer with past ties to the left-leaning Greens Party, announced that he would support the incumbent Labor Party in passing its annual budgets and fighting any ''unwarranted'' no-confidence motions but would not necessarily support the government in other matters.
''I have judged that it is the Australian Labor Party that best meets my criteria that the next government must be stable, it must be competent and it must be ethical,'' Mr. Wilkie told reporters in the capital, Canberra. ''In no way should my support be taken as support for any of their policies. I will approach every policy on its merits.'' 
According to most analysts, Thursday's announcement gave Ms. Gillard a slight advantage over her conservative rival, Tony Abbott. The pair have been scrambling to enlist the support of five independent or minor party lawmakers since the national election on Aug. 21 failed to deliver a parliamentary majority to either candidate.
Ms. Gillard has captured two of the crucial seats, with the Greens also pledging to support Labor. However, she and Mr. Abbott were still short of the 76 seats needed to form a government in the 150-member House of Representatives. With 90 percent of the votes counted, Labor and Mr. Abbott's conservative coalition were locked Thursday in a dead heat at 73 seats each, according to the Australian Electoral Commission. Another seat is still undecided, but it is widely expected to go to Labor.
The country's fate now rests in the hands of three independent representatives -- Bob Katter, Rob Oakeshott and Tony Windsor -- who were still weighing their options late Thursday. The three have been meeting with senior party officials and government bureaucrats in Canberra this week, seeking information about the state of the economy.
Ms. Gillard and her senior ministers have been promoting Labor's economic credentials, buoyed by better-than-expected growth figures released on Wednesday. Under Labor's stewardship, Australia was one of the few industrialized countries to escape a recession during the global slowdown. Last year, Australia's gross domestic product grew by a relatively robust 3.3 percent, and unemployment rate was just 5.3 percent in July, almost half that of the United States.
In the political realm, however, Labor's fortunes have not been so good.
Ms. Gillard seized control of the party and became the country's first female prime minister in June after a series of policy bungles and back flips saw Labor's approval ratings plunge to historic lows. With its previously unassailable parliamentary majority in tatters since the August election, Labor is now fighting to avoid becoming Australia's first one-term government since the Great Depression.
The deal with Mr. Wilkie, a freshman representative, includes a number of promises on domestic issues, including greater financing for public hospitals and a pledge to put daily transaction limits on Australia's ubiquitous poker machines. But he has said that he will fight many Labor policies, including the practice of holding asylum seekers in detention centers while their claims are reviewed.
''In no way should my support be taken as support for any of their policies. I will approach every policy on its merits,'' said Mr. Wilkie, who in 2003 quit his job as an intelligence analyst for Australia's Office of National Assessments to protest what he called the government's ''grossly unethical'' use of trumped-up evidence to support the war in Iraq. He later ran unsuccessfully as a Greens party candidate against John Howard, the conservative prime minister who ordered Australia's deployment to Iraq.
Ms. Gillard's bid to retain power received a further boost Thursday with the release of new government data showing that Mr. Abbott's conservative coalition of the Liberal and National parties had understated the cost of their election promises by up to $9.7 billion. The figures were made public after the three undecided independents demanded to see the official estimates of how much each party's election promises would cost.
The three men, who are negotiating as a bloc, but may split in their final vote, have given little indication of which way they will fall. Mr. Oakeshott has said he hopes to make up his mind by early next week. The others have also said they are close.
If neither Labor nor the coalition emerges from the negotiations with a majority, Australian voters could be forced to return to the polls.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); RECESSION (72%); BUDGETS (71%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (66%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

PERSON: JULIA GILLARD (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (90%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (74%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%); TASMANIA, AUSTRALIA (92%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (92%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



63 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise on News Of Jobs and Housing

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks rose Thursday, extending their gains from the day before, after reports on housing, manufacturing and jobs all indicated that the economy continued to grow.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 50.63 points, having jumped 254.75 on Wednesday, helped by strong reports on manufacturing in the United States and China. Broader indexes also rose. 
Trading was somewhat muted before the government's monthly report on employment, which is due Friday.
''We're treading water,'' said Dan Genter, chief executive of RNC Genter Capital. Traders are waiting to see if the report ''provides more of a rescue or a shark attack.''
The monthly report is likely to provide further evidence that the jobs market remains weak. Economists polled by Thomson Reuters said they believed the unemployment rate inched up to 9.6 percent last month from 9.5 percent in July as private employers hired just 41,000 workers in August.
With little broad conviction about the health of the economy, investors focused on specific stocks after monthly retail sales reports and the latest acquisition activity.
''It's a trader's market,'' said Kenneth Polcari, managing director at ICAP Equities.
Burger King Holdings and the data storage provider 3Par both rose after agreeing to be acquired. Limited Brands, which operates Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works, was lifted by strong August sales.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 50.63, or 0.5 percent, to close at 10,320.10.
Broader indexes also rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 9.81, or 0.9 percent, to 1,090.10, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 23.17, or 1.1 percent, to 2,200.01.
The Labor Department said first-time claims for unemployment benefits fell slightly last week but remained well above levels that indicated a healthy economy. Claims dipped for the second straight week. They fell slightly below the level economists had forecast, which was somewhat encouraging before the monthly employment report Friday.
The number of buyers who signed contracts for previously owned homes rose 5.2 percent in July after hitting a record low in June, according to the National Association of Realtors. Sales plummeted in the months after the government's home buyer tax credit expired in April and economists were expecting that trend to continue for a third consecutive month.
Factory orders also climbed, rising 0.1 percent in July. The increase backs up a report Wednesday showing the manufacturing sector continued to expand. Major indexes jumped more than 2 percent Wednesday after a surprising rise in manufacturing activity.
Bond prices declined after the economic reports. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 14/32, to 100, and the yield rose to 2.62 percent, from 2.57 percent late Wednesday. That yield helps set interest rates on mortgages and other consumer loans.
Limited shares jumped $1.48, or 6.1 percent, to $25.75.
Shares of 3Par rose 80 cents, or 2.49 percent, to $32.88 after Hewlett-Packard won a bidding war for the data storage provider. Hewlett-Packard raised its bid to $33 a share after a competitor, Dell, offered $32 a share.
Burger King jumped $4.73, or 25 percent, to $23.59. It is being taken private for $3.26 billion, or $24 a share.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); CONSUMER LENDING (60%)

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (55%); BATH & BODY WORKS LLC (54%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (54%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



64 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Harrisburg Expects to Miss a Bond Payment

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The capital of Pennsylvania has taken a step closer to a possible bankruptcy declaration, warning this week that it was not going to make a scheduled payment of $3.3 million on its general obligation bonds because it did not have the money.
The move by Harrisburg, a city of 45,000 people, is highly unusual and left municipal bond participants puzzling over whether it was a fluke or a harbinger. 
City Council members met Thursday to discuss whether to engage a bankruptcy lawyer. Many members now say that they believe the city would be better off solving its problems in bankruptcy than muddling along.
Even though municipal bond defaults have reached levels not seen since the early 1990s, the vast majority have been by small, special-purpose authorities in places hit hard by the real estate collapse. Harrisburg's move was remarkable for a city of any appreciable size; the city's annual budget is about $100 million.
The price of insuring Pennsylvania's debt rose modestly on the announcement Monday that the city would not make its Sept. 15 payment, while the price of similar insurance on the bonds of other states fell slightly, said Otis Casey, a credit analyst for Markit, which tracks the data.
''You can tell there's concerns about whether other municipal bond issuers in the state might be having some problems,'' Mr. Casey said. ''It's definitely a tap on the drum of all the bad news, but it's not the loudest tap.''
Some investors were left wondering whether Pennsylvania might have to offer assistance to Harrisburg and other troubled cities, he said. Still, most municipal bond investors seemed satisfied that states and cities were generally taking tough measures to preserve their creditworthiness during the downturn.
Harrisburg's warning to bondholders came in a letter signed by its business administrator, Robert F. Kroboth. His language suggested that the city hoped to buy time, saying it was ''developing a comprehensive plan'' to make the payments ''in the near future.''
But some bond market analysts said they thought Mr. Kroboth's plea for forbearance would have the opposite effect, prompting creditors to put new pressure on the city and limit its ability to maneuver through the growing financial crisis.
The company that insured Harrisburg's bonds, Ambac Assurance, has authority under Pennsylvania law to take Harrisburg to court within 30 days and seek an order that it raise property taxes to pay the bonds.
A spokeswoman for Ambac did not return a call seeking a statement on the insurer's intentions.
Cities rarely declare bankruptcy, so there is little legal precedent if Harrisburg were to take that route, making outcomes hard to predict. The mayor of Harrisburg, Linda D. Thompson, opposes a bankruptcy filing.
''You don't need a degree in law to understand that the issues here are very complicated, and it's going to be very costly to work this out in a Chapter 9 filing,'' said the mayor's spokesman, Chuck Ardo. ''The only ones that will benefit will be the lawyers.''
Harrisburg's financial difficulties have been mounting for some time. Even before this week, it had missed several payments in connection with another batch of bonds. It had guaranteed nearly $282 million of bonds issued by a separate entity, the Harrisburg Authority, which raised the money to build a huge trash incinerator.
The incinerator has been a flop, leaving the authority wallowing in debt that it cannot pay, including $35 million that will mature in December. Harrisburg has failed to make good on its guarantee, pointing to Dauphin County, a co-guarantor on some of the incinerator bonds.
On Wednesday Dauphin County authorized TD Bank, the trustee for the maturing incinerator bonds, to sue Harrisburg.
But this week's default announcement related to Harrisburg's own general obligation bonds, a sign that the city's problems were profound.
General obligation bonds are the type considered safest for ordinary investors, because the issuer pledges its full faith, credit and taxing power to make all payments. Cities normally go to great lengths to avoid defaulting on their general obligations.
''The city's prior defaults could be blamed on how the incinerator has not functioned,'' said Matt Fabian, managing director of Municipal Market Advisors, an independent consulting firm. ''This default is very different, because it shows the city cannot operate under normal circumstances. It's a default based on the structure and function of government itself.''
Mr. Fabian said he thought Harrisburg had stumbled badly by defaulting on a relatively small amount of debt.
''Their ability to restructure the incinerator debt is now compromised, because what could you restructure the incinerator bonds with, if not general obligation bonds?'' he said. ''Now their general obligation is not a credible pledge.''
Mr. Ardo said Harrisburg had already selected a financial advisory firm, Scott Balice Strategies, to help it review its operations and economize. The firm specializes in helping troubled cities sell assets like parking garages and toll roads. But the city has not been able to sign a contract yet, because it does not have the money.
Ms. Thompson, the mayor, has asked Gov. Edward G. Rendell for money to allow Harrisburg to hire Scott Balice and let it begin its review. On Thursday she was waiting for a response.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harrisburg missed payments on bonds it guaranteed issued by the Harrisburg Authority, which backed this incinerator. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); BONDS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MAYORS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); INSURANCE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (96%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



65 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'GOING THE DISTANCE'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Nothing Keeps Them Apart Except a Continent

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
The long-distance relationship is a fact of life for many couples, especially at a time of high unemployment and economic anxiety.
''Going the Distance,'' which unites its young lovers briefly in New York City before sending one of them out to San Francisco, acknowledges both the difficulty and the comic potential of the arrangement, and does so with enough insight and charm to make you wonder why frequent-flier love is not a more popular theme in romantic comedies.
Yes, of course, there have been innumerable dashes to the airport, in which (usually) the guy runs to the gate or onto the plane itself to apologize, propose marriage, or just beg the girl not to go. ''Going the Distance,'' crisply directed by Nanette Burstein from a better-than-average script by the first-timer Geoff LaTulippe, acknowledges this convention and slyly subverts it. The airport scene happens at the end of the first act, and the guy makes it only as far as the check-in line, where he tells the girl that he will miss her and hopes they can find a way to keep in touch. 
The two of them -- Garrett and Erin, played by Justin Long and Drew Barrymore -- live in a universe of quietly lowered romantic and professional expectations. He works in the music industry, she is an aspiring newspaper reporter, and the movie acknowledges the grim circumstances prevailing in both of their chosen fields without being too apocalyptic about it. Garrett has a low-level job at a record label, Erin is an intern at a New York daily before heading back to finish graduate school in California (where she lives with her sister and waits on tables for money), and both of their ambitions are hedged by a sense of diminished possibility.
The same is true in matters of the heart. Erin has a bad breakup behind her, while Garrett seems to have bounced from one relationship to another in a state of Seinfeldian noncommitment. After they meet, cute and mean and tipsy, over a video game at a bar, Garrett and Erin head back to his place for bong hits and a hookup that leads to something more, which in turn lands them at the airport. To recap: After 30 brisk minutes, which include a reasonably fresh take on the obligatory dating-in-New York montage -- laughter and kisses, Coney Island and Central Park -- they have fallen for each other and managed to make the audience care, at least a little, about what happens next.
I realize that what I have just described sounds kind of sad, even dreary. And the choices facing Garrett and Erin once the continent comes between them are made all the more painful by dint of being at once petty and hugely consequential. What should they do? Where should they live? You wonder how they can square their desire to be together with obedience to the imperatives of modern American individualism, which bundles paying the rent, finding your dream and meeting your soulmate into an equation that seems seductively simple until you actually try to solve it.
Happy solutions to intractable problems are what romantic comedies are supposed to supply, of course, and while ''Going the Distance'' hardly breaks the generic mold, it has enough honesty and charm to set it apart from most other recent examples. For better or worse, standard elements are all in place. Garrett has a pair of slovenly, foul-mouthed friends (Jason Sudeikis and Charlie Day) who offer bad advice and examples of crude-but-sweet male misbehavior that make their pal look like Cary Grant by comparison. Erin has a scolding, loving sister (the razor-witted Christina Applegate) whose version of domestic bliss (a lumpy husband played by Jim Gaffigan, a manic child played by Taylor Schwencke) is an ideal dressed up as a cautionary tale.
Erin and Garrett are different, of course, which in most commercial comedies would mean blander and duller. But Mr. Long -- who looks like the brainy runt of a litter spawned by Keanu Reeves and Ellen Page, and who is now claiming the pop-cultural ubiquity that seems to be the birthright of every male product of the Judd Apatow/Funny or Die laugh-making conglomerate -- is a sensitive and credible match for Ms. Barrymore. She, without making a big fuss about it, has become the most reliably charming and adaptable grown-up movie ingenue since Doris Day, complementing (and quietly outpacing) counterparts as various as Adam Sandler (in ''50 First Dates''), Hugh Grant (in ''Music and Lyrics'') and now Mr. Long.
They are pleasant company: good looking but not too good looking, and funny in the way of real people making jokes rather than comedians doing material. That job falls to Mr. Sudeikis and especially Mr. Day, who delivers a showstoppingly profane monologue on a Manhattan street that is hilarious less for its content than for his berserkly earnest delivery.
Ms. Burstein, whose previous films have been documentaries (including the queasy, teasy ''American Teen''), infuses even stock situations and tentative plot twists with a low-key, matter-of-fact feeling, allowing a hint of ragged indie sensibility to sneak into this polished studio product. Romantic comedies nowadays tend to be either aggressively coarse or artificially sweet, and ''Going the Distance'' finds a workable middle ground, freeing its main man from obnoxious puerility and declining to turn his beloved into a latter-day career gal tripping headlong toward the altar.
Watching this movie try to balance honesty with the breezy comforts the audience supposedly craves, I could not help but think of Joe Swanberg and Greta Gerwig's 2008 movie ''Nights and Weekends,'' in which the co-directors play a couple trying to keep a relationship going in Chicago and New York. That film, modest and improvisatory and diffidently (if not defiantly) noncommercial, is raw and ragged in a way that Ms. Burstein's could never be. But they seem at least to belong in the same world, a tentative and confusing place where love conquers what it can.
''Going the Distance'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Swearing, sex talk, bong hits and briefly exposed buttocks.
GOING THE DISTANCE
Opens on Friday nationwide.
Directed by Nanette Burstein; written by Geoff LaTulippe; director of photography, Eric Steelberg; edited by Peter Teschner; music by Mychael Danna; production designer, Kevin Kavanaugh; costumes by Catherine Marie Thomas; produced by Adam Shankman, Jennifer Gibgot and Garrett Grant; released by New Line Cinema and Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 36 minutes.
WITH: Drew Barrymore (Erin), Justin Long (Garrett), Charlie Day (Dan), Jason Sudeikis (Box), Christina Applegate (Corinne), Ron Livingston (Will), Oliver Jackson-Cohen (Damon), Jim Gaffigan (Phil) and Taylor Schwencke (Maya).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Going the Distance: Justin Long and Drew Barrymore star in this romantic comedy opening nationwide on Friday. (C1)
 Charlie Day, left, and Justin Long are buddies in the film ''Going the Distance,'' directed by Nanette Burstein. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA MIGLIO/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) (C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); COMEDY FILMS (76%); MARRIAGE (73%); WRITERS (68%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%)

PERSON: DREW BARRYMORE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Going the Distance (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



66 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 802 words

PERSON: Gail Koff 

HEADLINE: Gail Koff, 65, Principal in Jacoby & Meyers

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Gail J. Koff, who could be considered the silent partner in the national law firm Jacoby & Meyers, a sort of legal Wal-Mart for the middle class, died Tuesday in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 65.
The cause was complications of leukemia, her former husband, Ralph Brill, said. 
Ms. Koff was not there in September 1972 when Stephen Z. Meyers and Leonard D. Jacoby, his former law school classmate at the University of California, Los Angeles, opened their first storefront office in Van Nuys. But her aspirations matched those of the founders, and six years later she became the third partner, though unidentified in the firm's name, assigned to open the first New York office.
Recognizing that the rich can afford lawyers and that the poor have access to free assistance programs, Jacoby & Meyers focused on serving average people who could often not afford to hire a lawyer at prevailing rates.
The firm set off something of a revolution in the field by using mass-marketing techniques and charging flat fees for services. It opened walk-in neighborhood ''legal clinics'' staffed by general practitioners who had access to teams of specialists in areas like bankruptcy, real estate, personal injury, divorce and criminal law.
''My main interest in the law has always been the availability of local services,'' Ms. Koff told The New York Times in 1979.
By then, Mr. Jacoby and Mr. Meyers had started the first television advertising campaign conducted by a law firm. The advertising had a folksy appeal, featuring ''two guys named Jacoby and Meyers,'' and offered free consultations. It appeared in 1977, just weeks after the United States Supreme Court ruled that law firms, like any other business, could advertise their services.
Ms. Koff later appeared on a late-night Jacoby & Meyers commercial holding a hair dryer and warning viewers about the dangers they faced from injury and fraud. In another commercial, she declared, ''We take your case seriously, and the insurance companies take us very seriously.''
The firm's founders envisioned offices in every state. But over time, competitors adopted similar tactics, prompting Jacoby & Meyers to retrench significantly from its mid-1990s peak of about 150 offices in six states.
In 1994, as a result of management disagreements, the firm was divided into separate partnerships. Mr. Jacoby retained rights to operations in California, while Ms. Koff and Mr. Meyers retained rights in the rest of the country. There are now two offices in California and 13 elsewhere, including 10 in the New York metropolitan area. Mr. Meyers died in 1996.
Gail Joanne Koff was born in Manhattan on May 15, 1945, the daughter of Murray and Sylvia Koff. She graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1966 and received her law degree from George Washington University in 1969.
She is survived by three brothers, Michael, Larry and Peter Koff, a son, Micah Brill, and two daughters, Loren and Wade Brill. Her 20-year marriage to Ralph Brill ended in 1998 after a highly publicized four-year divorce fight that included accusations of abuse against her husband, which he denied.
Central to the case was a prenuptial agreement stipulating equal division of their assets. But an appellate court eventually agreed to Ms. Koff's claim to a 65 percent share, stating in its decision, ''The evidence unquestionably establishes that the wife undertook the herculean combined roles of full-time lawyer, primary homemaker and primary parent of the three children.''
While attending law school, Ms. Koff had worked for the Legal Services Administration in Washington, an arm of the federal Office of Economic Opportunity. After graduation, she joined the New York corporate law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, but continued to spend time on issues dealing with availability of legal services.
Ms. Koff wrote nine books offering legal guidance to laymen, including ''The Jacoby & Meyers Practical Guide to Everyday Law'' (1985) and the ''Jacoby & Meyers Guide to Divorce'' (1991).

CORRECTION-DATE: September 6, 2010; September 8, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Friday about Gail J. Koff, a principal in the law firm Jacoby & Meyers, referred incorrectly to two of her survivors. Loren and Wade Brill are her daughters, not her sons. (Micah Brill is her surviving son.) The obituary also misspelled part of the name of a corporate law firm where Ms. Koff once worked. It is Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (not Meager).
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Friday about Gail J. Koff, a principal in the law firm Jacoby & Meyers, misstated the middle initial of one of the firm's founders. He is Leonard D. Jacoby, not Leonard G.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gail J. Koff (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD MAC MILLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); LAWYERS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); LITIGATION (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); LEUKEMIA (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); APPEALS (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); INSURANCE (50%)

COMPANY: JACOBY & MEYERS LLC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (90%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



67 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: How to End the Great Recession

BYLINE: By ROBERT B. REICH. 
Robert B. Reich, a secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, is a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley, and the author of the forthcoming ''Aftershock: The Next Economy and America's Future.''

 BODY:
Berkeley, Calif.
THIS promises to be the worst Labor Day in the memory of most Americans. Organized labor is down to about 7 percent of the private work force. Members of non-organized labor -- most of the rest of us -- are unemployed, underemployed or underwater. Friday's jobs report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics will almost surely show fewer new jobs created in August than the 125,000 needed just to keep up with growth of the potential work force.
The national economy isn't escaping the gravitational pull of the Great Recession. None of the standard booster rockets are working: near-zero short-term interest rates from the Fed, almost record-low borrowing costs in the bond market, a giant stimulus package and tax credits for small businesses that hire the long-term unemployed have all failed to do enough.
That's because the real problem has to do with the structure of the economy, not the business cycle. No booster rocket can work unless consumers are able, at some point, to keep the economy moving on their own. But consumers no longer have the purchasing power to buy the goods and services they produce as workers; for some time now, their means haven't kept up with what the growing economy could and should have been able to provide them. 
This crisis began decades ago when a new wave of technology -- things like satellite communications, container ships, computers and eventually the Internet -- made it cheaper for American employers to use low-wage labor abroad or labor-replacing software here at home than to continue paying the typical worker a middle-class wage. Even though the American economy kept growing, hourly wages flattened. The median male worker earns less today, adjusted for inflation, than he did 30 years ago.
But for years American families kept spending as if their incomes were keeping pace with overall economic growth. And their spending fueled continued growth. How did families manage this trick? First, women streamed into the paid work force. By the late 1990s, more than 60 percent of mothers with young children worked outside the home (in 1966, only 24 percent did).
Second, everyone put in more hours. What families didn't receive in wage increases they made up for in work increases. By the mid-2000s, the typical male worker was putting in roughly 100 hours more each year than two decades before, and the typical female worker about 200 hours more.
When American families couldn't squeeze any more income out of these two coping mechanisms, they embarked on a third: going ever deeper into debt. This seemed painless -- as long as home prices were soaring. From 2002 to 2007, American households extracted $2.3 trillion from their homes.
Eventually, of course, the debt bubble burst -- and with it, the last coping mechanism. Now we're left to deal with the underlying problem that we've avoided for decades. Even if nearly everyone was employed, the vast middle class still wouldn't have enough money to buy what the economy is capable of producing.
Where have all the economic gains gone? Mostly to the top. The economists Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty examined tax returns from 1913 to 2008. They discovered an interesting pattern. In the late 1970s, the richest 1 percent of American families took in about 9 percent of the nation's total income; by 2007, the top 1 percent took in 23.5 percent of total income.
It's no coincidence that the last time income was this concentrated was in 1928. I do not mean to suggest that such astonishing consolidations of income at the top directly cause sharp economic declines. The connection is more subtle.
The rich spend a much smaller proportion of their incomes than the rest of us. So when they get a disproportionate share of total income, the economy is robbed of the demand it needs to keep growing and creating jobs.
What's more, the rich don't necessarily invest their earnings and savings in the American economy; they send them anywhere around the globe where they'll summon the highest returns -- sometimes that's here, but often it's the Cayman Islands, China or elsewhere. The rich also put their money into assets most likely to attract other big investors (commodities, stocks, dot-coms or real estate), which can become wildly inflated as a result.
Meanwhile, as the economy grows, the vast majority in the middle naturally want to live better. Their consequent spending fuels continued growth and creates enough jobs for almost everyone, at least for a time. But because this situation can't be sustained, at some point -- 1929 and 2008 offer ready examples -- the bill comes due.
This time around, policymakers had knowledge their counterparts didn't have in 1929; they knew they could avoid immediate financial calamity by flooding the economy with money. But, paradoxically, averting another Great Depression-like calamity removed political pressure for more fundamental reform. We're left instead with a long and seemingly endless Great Jobs Recession.
THE Great Depression and its aftermath demonstrate that there is only one way back to full recovery: through more widely shared prosperity. In the 1930s, the American economy was completely restructured. New Deal measures -- Social Security, a 40-hour work week with time-and-a-half overtime, unemployment insurance, the right to form unions and bargain collectively, the minimum wage -- leveled the playing field.
In the decades after World War II, legislation like the G.I. Bill, a vast expansion of public higher education and civil rights and voting rights laws further reduced economic inequality. Much of this was paid for with a 70 percent to 90 percent marginal income tax on the highest incomes. And as America's middle class shared more of the economy's gains, it was able to buy more of the goods and services the economy could provide. The result: rapid growth and more jobs.
By contrast, little has been done since 2008 to widen the circle of prosperity. Health-care reform is an important step forward but it's not nearly enough.
What else could be done to raise wages and thereby spur the economy? We might consider, for example, extending the earned income tax credit all the way up through the middle class, and paying for it with a tax on carbon. Or exempting the first $20,000 of income from payroll taxes and paying for it with a payroll tax on incomes over $250,000.
In the longer term, Americans must be better prepared to succeed in the global, high-tech economy. Early childhood education should be more widely available, paid for by a small 0.5 percent fee on all financial transactions. Public universities should be free; in return, graduates would then be required to pay back 10 percent of their first 10 years of full-time income.
Another step: workers who lose their jobs and have to settle for positions that pay less could qualify for ''earnings insurance'' that would pay half the salary difference for two years; such a program would probably prove less expensive than extended unemployment benefits.
These measures would not enlarge the budget deficit because they would be paid for. In fact, such moves would help reduce the long-term deficits by getting more Americans back to work and the economy growing again.
Policies that generate more widely shared prosperity lead to stronger and more sustainable economic growth -- and that's good for everyone. The rich are better off with a smaller percentage of a fast-growing economy than a larger share of an economy that's barely moving. That's the Labor Day lesson we learned decades ago; until we remember it again, we'll be stuck in the Great Recession.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALAIN PILON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); FAMILY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); PARENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (75%); SPACE PROPULSION (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); STATISTICS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); BONDS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); CHILDREN (63%); HOME PRICES (60%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



68 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2075 words

HEADLINE: As Athletic Directors Compete, Big Money Flows to All Sports

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE and KATIE THOMAS; Griffin Palmer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -- He has a budget of almost $95 million, growing fast, and command of three private planes. He oversees a newly renovated and certified green building as well as nearly a dozen other tricked-out facilities that are among the most prized on campus.
Even as the University of Florida cuts faculty and budgets, its athletic director, Jeremy Foley, has been expanding a formidable empire dedicated to winning championships, not just in football and men's basketball but in 19 other sports.
The softball coach makes a quarter of a million dollars a year. When Foley decided to start a lacrosse program for women, he built a $15 million complex for them before they ever played a game.
This commitment to excellence is well rewarded. Among the incentives built into Foley's $1.2 million contract is a $50,000 bump for finishing in the top 10 of the Directors' Cup, a little-known but highly prized honor for the program with the most success across many sports. At stake is not just bragging rights, but hundreds of thousands of dollars in bonuses for athletic directors and coaches who feel increasing pressure to win. 
Something has changed on many college campuses across America. As they seek to raise their profiles, universities are investing in once-obscure sports that do not come close to paying for themselves, even in the face of dire budget cuts. It's still not clear whether it pays off, but winning in all sports is what matters now, and the message is driven home from the highest levels of the university.
''If we are going to compete in something, we want to win at it -- whether it is in pediatrics or women's gymnastics,'' said J. Bernard Machen, the University of Florida president. ''It is important to our supporters, both financial and among our community. It is part of our culture. We want people to know that Florida is a place for winners.''
Some university officials and even athletic directors worry about whether the emphasis on athletics is worth the significant sums that universities invest in them.
''We talk about football coaches' salaries, we talk about basketball coaches' salaries,'' Gene Smith, Ohio State's athletic director, told his colleagues last year at a conference on spending in college athletics. ''The salaries in many of our Olympic sports have tripled since 1994.''
Sandy Barbour, at the University of California, Berkeley, said athletic directors do themselves a disservice by giving in to the spending race. ''We haven't stopped and raised our hand and said, 'Whoa,' '' said Barbour, who herself has faced criticism at Berkeley for subsidizing money-losing sports while the academic departments have been forced to make severe cuts.
All but 14 of the 120 athletic programs in the Football Bowl Subdivision -- the highest level of college sports -- lost money in the 2008-9 academic year, down from 25 profitable programs the year before, according to the N.C.A.A.
Still, overall spending on sports has increased among universities with big-time programs, according to the N.C.A.A. In 2008-9, athletic programs in the Football Bowl Subdivision increased their spending by nearly 11 percent over the previous year. At the same time, universities also increased their contribution to athletics, by 28 percent. That spending came even as the economic recession forced institutions to make painful cuts.
The reason, university officials say, is that the emphasis on sports pays off: athletics serve as the ''front porch'' of a university, a powerful marketing tool that generates free advertising on ESPN and the sports pages.
But economists have found it difficult to quantify a link between investing in a high-profile athletic program and reaping presumed benefits, like alumni donations or higher application rates. ''If there's any effect, it's a blip: it doesn't persist,'' said Jonathan Orszag, an economist who has evaluated such issues for the N.C.A.A.
Still, even at colleges known more for academic excellence, hypercompetitive alumni want to be the best at everything.
''I think sports are part of the fabric of America, and colleges reflect that in a very positive way,'' said Richard McCarty, the provost at Vanderbilt University. ''I do think that's a strong part of the connective tissue that holds many alumni, or allows them to stay connected to the home institution.''
Budgets have risen, officials say, partly because more women are competing, and doing so under better conditions. Some larger universities are signing deals to televise not just football and basketball but also lesser-known sports. And they do not want viewers watching losing teams.
Another major factor is the Directors' Cup, which got its start in the 1990s during a brainstorming session as a way to raise the visibility of an association of athletic directors.
But it quickly gave rise to a competition among athletic directors to measure who had the best broad-based sports program. The cup's creators knew their idea had legs when Florida State flew one of them to Tallahassee to talk to coaches about the importance of scoring points.
''We were hoping that it was going to become a tool to measure one school against the other like it was originally designed to do,'' said Brian Horning, of the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics, which runs the cup. ''But we had no idea it would come into salary contracts and things like that.''
Today, at least a dozen athletic directors at big-time sports programs receive bonuses that are tied to performance in the cup. Joe Alleva negotiated a bonus of $100,000 for every top-five finish by Louisiana State University. Ohio State's Smith may be concerned about the growing costs in minor sports, but he stands to collect a $17,000 bonus for a top-five finish, which he set as a goal for the Buckeyes.
And Barbour at Berkeley, which finished eighth this year, receives about $14,000 for a top-five ranking. ''We've been in the top 10 now pretty consistently,'' she said, ''and aspirationally, we want to win it.''
Not only has the Directors' Cup become a lucrative benchmark for the success of athletic programs, it has become a slick enough marketing tool to give rise to an imitator. This week a team of former N.C.A.A. athletes unveiled the Capital One Cup, which will be awarded to the top men's and women's Division I programs based on cumulative on-field performance across multiple sports.
''This will be an opportunity for school administrators to see the importance of their nonrevenue programs,'' said Doug Flutie, the former Boston College and N.F.L. quarterback who won the 1984 Heisman Trophy. ''On college campuses, the self-pride in those programs will continue to escalate.''
The Price of Success
Foley, 57, who played lacrosse at Hobart College and has run the Boston Marathon, is competitive. He likes to see that quality in his coaches. He checks their recruiting logs to make sure they are on the road enough. In 2004 he fired the third-year football coach Ron Zook, and in 2001 he fired the baseball coach Andy Lopez. Lopez averaged 40 victories a season over seven seasons, winning two Southeastern Conference championships and appearing in five N.C.A.A. tournaments and two College World Series.
In Foley's 18-year tenure, Florida's teams have won 15 national championships and 95 SEC titles. ''If the Directors' Cup went out of business tomorrow, we would not change a single thing we do,'' he said. ''It is what we do here: we compete. It makes our work fun. It reflects positively on our institution.''
The University of Florida is famous for its football and men's basketball teams. Urban Meyer and Billy Donovan, the football and basketball coaches, are among the nation's highest paid. Because those teams attract so many fans willing to pay for tickets and merchandise, they more than subsidize the rest of the teams, which lose money.
In fact, thanks to the success of those two teams, Florida's athletic program has contributed more than $55 million to the university for academics since 1990.
It was the performance, however, of those other teams that enabled Florida to place second to Stanford in the Directors' Cup earlier this year. It did not come cheaply.
Florida's spending on nearly every nonrevenue sport has more than doubled over the past decade, even after adjusting for inflation, according to financial documents reported annually to the N.C.A.A. Spending on women's gymnastics, swimming and track grew even faster.
Florida's more than 440 athletes are treated by a cadre of physiotherapists and monitored by an army of academic advisers. They practice and play in new facilities.
''Jeremy and everyone here truly believe that every athlete who steps onto this campus should be afforded the same resources, the same opportunities and same experiences as Tim Tebow,'' said the lacrosse coach, Amanda O'Leary, referring to the Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback.
Stanford, the perennial winner of the Directors' Cup, captures it with scale: it has 35 programs from which to choose the top 10 men's and women's results that count toward the cup rankings.
The Gators have 21 sports. In the past school year, 14 of them finished in the top 10 in the nation, with the women's swimming and diving team and the men's indoor track team capturing national championships.
Mary Wise, the volleyball coach, and Tim Walton, the softball coach, earn a lot less than Meyer's $4.5 million a year. But with annual salaries and benefits in 2009 of nearly $365,000 and $253,000, they are paid substantially more than their peers in their sports. ''They've earned it,'' said Foley, who pays all of his coaches handsomely.
Wise led the volleyball team to 18 straight SEC titles from 1991 to 2008 and 7 Final Four appearances. Walton has earned two SEC regular-season and tournament softball titles, and has taken his team to the Women's College World Series three years in a row.
Goodbye, Small Time
The university laid off 139 faculty and staff members from 2007 to 2010 in response to the more than $150 million reduction in state funding.
The athletic budget, however, is up 6 percent to $94.6 million from $89 million the previous school year. The University Athletic Association, a nonprofit corporation that reports to Florida's Board of Trustees, finances the athletic department, and Foley is its chief financial officer.
''This would be a different conversation if we were losing money over there,'' said Machen, whose compensation package will equal Foley's $1.2 million in 2012.
When a program like Florida makes a bold move, others pay attention. In the SEC, Florida has helped ignite a building boom in everything from swimming to golf. At the University of Tennessee, new facilities include an aquatics center, a softball stadium and a $16 million makeover of the baseball stadium. Plans are under way for a clubhouse and driving range for the golf teams.
The projects at Tennessee show how the big-time sports mentality has bled into smaller sports, said Todd Diacon, who served until recently as the faculty athletics representative at Tennessee.
''It strikes me that all the ills that people tend to throw at the revenue sports have now jumped over to the nonrevenue sports,'' he said. ''It doesn't feel like it's sustainable to me.''
Mike Patrick, the women's tennis coach at Tennessee, said when he started coaching at the college level in the 1980s, he drove the van, strung the rackets and served as the strength coach, massage therapist and trainer.
''We didn't have much, and I don't think that much was expected of us,'' he said.
Now, Patrick has money and a mandate, elevating expectations: ''They fund us and give us the means necessary to be competitive, in the top 25 national teams. Is that pressure? Not any more than I put on myself to be as good as we can be.''
Becky Burleigh, the only women's soccer coach Florida has had, gets butterflies as her team's season approaches. Women's soccer is the first of Florida's sports with a chance to score points in the Directors' Cup. She agrees that success is prized in the culture of Florida athletics.
At last year's Christmas party, ''one of the games was a competition where people were paired up and they had to throw and catch small marshmallows with their mouths,'' she said. ''You had to back up a little farther each time. It didn't take long before women with dresses and guys in good clothes were diving on the floor. This is a place where people are built to win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The track athlete Brittany Harrell working out in the University of Florida's weight room. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARON DEAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
GO FOR THE CRYSTAL: The Directors' Cup is given to the best overall college sports program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STANFORD)
When the University of Florida started a women's lacrosse team, a $15 million complex was built before the team played a game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION)
Joakim Noah, who won national titles with the Florida basketball team in 2006 and 2007, hugging Athletic Director Jeremy Foley in 2007. The athletic department has three planes to use at its discretion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP, TRAVIS LINDQUIST/GETTY IMAGES
 ABOVE, UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION) (B16) CHART: Headed Up: Spending on all sports has increased steadily since 2004. All but two sports at the University of Florida spend more than they bring in. (Source: University of Florida) (B16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); BASKETBALL (75%); WOMEN (74%); TRACK & FIELD (71%); SOFTBALL (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); GYMNASTICS (71%); LACROSSE (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



69 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Euro's Slide Gives Germany An Edge in Manufacturing

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- There was a touch of gloating in the most recent earnings report issued by Kuka, a company based in the Bavarian city of Augsburg whose orange industrial robots are a common site on auto assembly lines around the world.
Kuka said last month that its sales had more than bounced back to levels predating the financial crisis. By contrast, sales at its Japanese rivals were still a third below where they had stood in early 2008, before the global downturn slammed the machinery industry. 
A surge in orders from European carmakers has helped Kuka's rebound. But it also does not hurt that the euro has plunged compared with the yen, which has given Kuka a price advantage against Japanese competitors that it did not have a year ago.
''Price is not the sole criteria, but it's an important criteria,'' Kuka's chief executive, Till Reuter, said in an interview. ''The weaker euro is to our advantage.''
European companies tend to focus on the dollar exchange rate, because the United States currency is the most important for world trade. But the yen's recent strengthening is playing a role in Germany's export boom as well.
The euro has fallen 19 percent against the yen in the last year, nearly double the decline against the dollar. Over all, the euro is down more than 36 percent against the yen since August 2008.
A stronger yen is good news for German machinery and auto companies whose main competitors often are based in Japan. And it is, of course, bad news in Japan, where the strong currency has become a political issue.
The rivalry between the two countries is particularly intense in China. It is the fastest-growing market for many German companies, but proximity gives Japanese exporters an edge.
China was the destination for 5 percent of German auto exports last year, up from 0.6 percent in 2000. And 9.1 percent of German machinery exports went to China, up from 2.7 percent a decade ago, according to the Ifo Institute, a research organization in Munich.
''Japanese manufacturers are all over the place, and they are usually the toughest competitors,'' said Oliver Wack, a China specialist at the German Engineering Federation, an industry group.
In fact, German companies gained ground in China last year, increasing their share of imports to 22.9 percent from 20.6 percent, while Japan's share of Chinese imports slipped to 24.1 percent from 27 percent, according to the engineering federation.
Because the Chinese currency moves in lockstep with the dollar, the yen is rising against the renminbi, even as the euro has grown cheaper. But economists and company executives caution that there are many other reasons for Germany's gains. For example, Germany benefited from China's heavy investment in infrastructure like power plants, which favored companies like Siemens.
And the initial cost, in euros or yen, is often a secondary consideration in markets for specialized factory machines or heavy equipment, where both Japanese and German companies are strong. Customers scrutinize factors like energy efficiency, which may be a more important cost factor over the long term.
But few German companies are complaining about the strong yen.
''If Japan has a stronger currency, there is no question that helps the German companies,'' said Steffen Elstner, who specializes in exports at the Ifo Institute.
The benefit is small but significant, said Rolf Schneider, head of macroeconomic research at the German insurer Allianz. He calculates that the dollar's rise against the euro has added three or four percentage points to German exports, while the yen's rise has added no more than one percentage point.
But ''one percent is still relatively high,'' Mr. Schneider said. ''For companies that compete directly with Japanese companies, it plays a decisive role.''
The weak yen of a few years ago was a product of Japan's extremely low interest rates, which made Japanese bonds and other assets less attractive for international investors. But when the financial crisis hit, the European Central Bank also cut its benchmark interest rate, to a record low of 1 percent, which meant that the interest rate that investors could earn on euros was not much better than the return for yen.
That and shaky growth in much of the euro area meant there was less incentive for investors to put their money into Europe as opposed to Japan.
''Now that interest rates are low worldwide, this advantage is gone,'' said Ralph Wiechers, chief economist of the German Engineering Federation.
German industry representatives tend to play down the importance of exchange rates, preferring to emphasize other reasons their strategies and products are superior to those of competitors.
A spokesman for the carmaker Volkswagen, who said he could not be quoted by name because of company policy, said the company had been taking market share from Toyota because of the quality of Volkswagens, not because of a shift in the yen.
ABB, a company based in Zurich whose products include industrial robots made in Germany and other locations, said it was not noticing any yen effect.
''At this point we don't see an overall change in the competitive landscape because of the strong yen,'' Michel Demare, the chief financial officer at ABB, said in an e-mail.
Many multinational companies now produce their products all over the world, in part to protect themselves from currency swings. Kuka produces machinery in Shanghai as well as in Germany and in Hungary, and it buys parts from Japan.
Liebherr, a German company that makes construction equipment, competes directly with Tadano of Japan in the mobile crane business. But, since Tadano manufactures mobile cranes at a subsidiary in Germany, the strong yen does not give Liebherr any advantage.
Still, in Japan the yen has become a sensitive issue as the currency fluctuates around a 15-year high.
In a government survey of 102 exporters, released last week, more than 60 percent said that they would see profits fall because of the strong yen.
Ichiro Ozawa, who is challenging Prime Minister Naoto Kan to be head of the Democratic Party of Japan, said Thursday that action was needed to weaken the yen, Reuters reported.
It is difficult for countries to do much about currency levels, though. Central banks can sell large amounts of their own currency, but the effect is usually temporary. And the Bank of Japan could probably not count on coordinated action from the European Central Bank and the United States Federal Reserve, which have no interest in strengthening their own currencies.
At best, interventions slow down currency movements and give companies more time to adjust.
While acknowledging the difficulties, Mr. Ozawa said that ''the yen's rise has come to a level where we will need to act.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kuka workers, top left and above, test industrial robots. The strong yen is supporting Germany's export boom by imposing a price penalty on Japanese companies that compete with it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL MAYER FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE)
 Till Reuter, the chief executive of Kuka, a German company that makes industrial robots. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KUKA) (B8) CHART: A Dent in Japanese Trade: The weakening of the dollar and the euro against the yen has hurt the competitiveness of Japan's exports. (Source: Bloomberg) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); ROBOTICS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); JAPANESE YEN (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: KUKA AG (91%)

TICKER: KU2 (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333993 PACKAGING MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3565 PACKAGING MACHINERY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAVARIA, GERMANY (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (89%) GERMANY (99%); CHINA (96%); JAPAN (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



70 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Discounts Help Lift Back-to-School Sales

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Back-to-school season started off on sale, with retailers receiving new merchandise in August, and then marking it down to get it out the door.
That led to a decent 3.3 percent increase in revenue at retail stores open at least a year, according to a summary of 27 retailers by Thomson Reuters, above the 2.5 percent increase that analysts expected. A 3 percent increase and above ''represents a healthy U.S. consumer,'' said Jharonne Martis, director of consumer research for Thomson Reuters.
The August increase is also being compared with a month a year ago in which sales declined 2.8 percent. 
All of the discounting was a troubling sign for the fall and holiday seasons. To make it through the worst of the recession, retailers cut prices aggressively, which hurt their profits. They say they have learned their lesson and are trying to retrain consumers to buy at full price by having fewer items available, hoping shoppers will buy that brown turtleneck immediately rather than risk not getting it.
But analysts said retailers were not holding to their vows of avoiding markdown wars.
''I don't think people necessarily stuck to it,'' said David Bassuk, a managing director at the consulting firm AlixPartners, whose staff members have been visiting stores and noting promotions. ''Full-priced selling just isn't happening. You've got to be on sale.''
Adrienne Tennant, an analyst at Janney Capital Markets, visited mall stores earlier this week and noted promotions like 40 percent off jeans and ''jeggings'' (tight denim-style leggings) at Abercrombie & Fitch, all jeans under $20 at Aeropostale and ''buy one, get one free'' flip-flops at Old Navy.
Both Aeropostale and Abercrombie discussed the effects of price cutting in prerecorded calls for investors. Aeropostale said that merchandise margins were down slightly compared to last year, and Abercrombie said its average retail price per item decreased 15 percent.
With ''price-sensitive consumers and building inventory across the sector, we remain cautious going into the fall season,'' Ms. Tennant said in a note to clients.
The American consumer appears to be spending more: in July, consumer spending rose 0.4 percent, the first time in four months, the Commerce Department said on Monday.
But spending tends to closely track unemployment rates, and the Friday report on joblessness is expected to show an uptick in the unemployment rate, to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent, and an additional 100,000 jobs lost.
There were pockets of good news. Nordstrom continued its improvement streak, posting an increase of 6.3 percent, 0.4 percent above analysts' estimates.
Nordstrom said its results were helped by weaving together store and Web inventory, and that for the combined July and August months, which included its big anniversary sale, its online division saw sales rise 18.6 percent compared with a year earlier.
That followed strong quarterly results from luxury retailers. Hermes, which specializes in leather bags and accessories, reported that profit rose 55.2 percent in the first half compared with the period a year ago, and sales increased 20 percent, adjusted for changing exchange rates.
The jeweler Tiffany & Company said on Friday that its profit rose 19 percent for the quarter, and sales grew 9 percent.
The bounceback in luxury led analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters to forecast that Saks, an even higher-end retailer than Nordstrom, would have a 4.3 percent increase in sales. But Saks missed estimates, coming in at only a 1 percent gain -- and that was compared with a drop of 19.6 percent a year ago.
Saks said it was hurt by not putting items on sale as it had last year. ''August comparable store sales were negatively impacted due to reduced levels of clearance inventory,'' the retailer said in a statement.
Among the strongest performers were Costco, where sales rose 7 percent, well above the 4.2 percent estimates, and Stein Mart, where sales rose 8.5 percent and topped analysts' expectations that sales would be flat.
The other discount stores measured by Thomson Reuters -- places like BJ's Wholesale Club and Target -- also turned in good performances, and the sector as a whole had the best results, rising 4.3 percent.
''Those that are unemployed are spending, but only on basic necessities, and that's why the discounters do so well,'' Ms. Martis said.
Among the specialty stores, the Limited was the best performer with a rise of 10 percent, driven by its Victoria's Secret division, where sales rose 15 percent.
Retailers that cater to teenagers, like Hot Topic, Aeropostale and the Buckle, all reported sales declines from August a year ago. (It was the 16th consecutive month of Hot Topic same-store declines, Ms. Martis said.)
Teenage retailers were the worst performers over all in August, increasing 2.2 percent on average.
It will be harder in the rest of the year for retailers to post increases compared with a year ago, as in September 2009, the industry started posting gains rather than losses versus a year earlier.
''It's going to be very telling, the month of September, because finally we're going to be facing positive comps from a year ago,'' Ms. Martis said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shoppers at Macy's. Analysts said buyers remained ''price-sensitive.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
Target's new store in Harlem. Discount stores like Target and BJ's Wholesale Club posted strong gains in sales in August. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) CHARTS: Retail Sales in August: THOMSON REUTERS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX: Year-to-year change based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.
SALES: Results are for the four weeks that ended Aug. 28, except as noted, compared with the period a year earlier. (Sources: company reports
 Thomson Reuters) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); PRICE CUTTING (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (93%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (93%); AFT (FRA) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



71 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CROSSROADS COUNTY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: In a Shift, Fewer Young Voters See Themselves as Democrats

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
FORT COLLINS, Colo. -- The college vote is up for grabs this year -- to an extent that would have seemed unlikely two years ago, when a generation of young people seemed to swoon over Barack Obama.
Though many students are liberals on social issues, the economic reality of a weak job market has taken a toll on their loyalties: far fewer 18- to 29-year-olds now identify themselves as Democrats compared with 2008.
''Is the recession, which is hitting young people very hard, doing lasting or permanent damage to what looked like a good Democratic advantage with this age group?'' asked Scott Keeter, the director of survey research at the Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan group. ''The jury is still out.''
How and whether millions of college students vote will help determine if Republicans win enough seats to retake the House or Senate, overturning the balance of power on Capitol Hill, and with it, Mr. Obama's agenda. If students tune out and stay home it will also carry a profound message for American society about a generation that seemed so ready, so recently, to grab national politics by the lapels and shake. 
All those questions are in play here in Larimer County, about an hour north of Denver, for the more than 25,000 students at Colorado State University.
Larimer, like much of Colorado, was once solidly Republican but went Democratic in the last few elections and is now contested by both sides. It is seen as a signal beacon for an increasingly unpredictable state.
Kristin Johnson, 23, like many other students interviewed here in recent days, said that a vote for Democrats in 2008, however passionate it was, did not a Democrat make. But she bristles just as much at the idea of being called a Republican.
''It's like picking a team when you really don't want to root for either team,'' said Ms. Johnson, a communication studies major, who said she was undecided about parties and politics going into the general election campaign.
She is not the only one. Because the university draws about 80 percent of its enrollment from within Colorado -- mostly from Denver and its suburbs -- it is also a sort of mirror within a mirror for Colorado's political culture. Moderate and conservative views are common; a campus monoculture of liberalism is not.
Leah Rosen, a history major from Denver, still vividly remembers witnessing a fistfight outside her dormitory room on election night in 2008 between Obama supporters and McCain supporters. National exit polls back then gave Mr. Obama a 66 percent edge among young people, to 32 percent for Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential nominee.
Larimer is the focal point for a nationally watched House race in Colorado's Fourth District, where Betsy Markey, a Democrat, is fighting for a second term in a traditionally Republican seat, against a Republican challenger, Cory Gardner.
Senator Michael Bennet, a Democrat appointed last year to fill a vacant seat, is also in a toss-up contest against a Republican candidate, Ken Buck, who has local connections as the Weld County district attorney in Greeley, 20 miles southeast of Fort Collins.
Many students here, especially seniors nearing graduation, said that worries about the economy, and about getting a job after graduation, had filtered through the campus, dampening enthusiasm for Democrats in Congress and Mr. Obama.
Philip Stricker, 21, a biology major who voted for Mr. Obama but says he has not been paying much attention to politics lately, uses a nontechnical term to describe the phenomenon.
''There's a vibe,'' he said on a recent afternoon, while pumping weights at the gym. ''Right now it seems like Republicans just care a lot more than Democrats.''
A spokeswoman for the university's chapter of College Democrats, Mandi Asay, 22, said her group battled apathy on one hand and anger on the other.
''People are angry -- about the budget deficit, health care plan, angry about this and that,'' she said. ''I feel like Republicans definitely, definitely have a chance of getting back on their feet.''
The College Republican National Committee, which works with campus groups around the nation, is making economic angst a focus of its vote-hunting efforts -- especially over the national debt, and the idea that young people will be saddled with it.
The Democratic National Committee, by contrast, is trying to reinforce, or re-establish, the bond that many students felt in 2008 with Mr. Obama, and to use that link to bolster support for Democrats. A spokesman for the committee, Brad Woodhouse, said he thought the surveys showing the erosion of Americans identifying as Democrats were misleading partly because voters connected differently with politics in 2008 -- more through a person, Mr. Obama, than a party. That makes the task of building party allegiance different from past patterns, he said.
For decades in politics, Republican and Democratic strategists have put their faith in the so-called rule of three, which says that patterns in youth, once established by votes in three consecutive elections, become habit and identity.
Self-identification figures for Democrats -- in national polls asking young people what party they lean more toward -- peaked at 62 percent in July 2008, according to the Pew Research Center. By late last year, the number had dropped eight percentage points, to 54 percent, though researchers saw an uptick earlier this year, back to 57 percent. Republican gains roughly mirrored Democratic losses.
Some academics who study voting patterns say that the rule of three is too simplistic, and that lots of factors combine to determine a person's place on the political spectrum. Individual votes, said Donald P. Green, a professor of political science at Yale who studies voter behavior, matter less than the social fabric that people grow into -- in jobs, social life, community and values.
In any case, he and others said, there is no doubt that many young people in Larimer County are still finding their way, at a time when everyone agrees that the stakes are enormous.
''We're at a crossroads in our nation's future, and we have to decide where to go,'' said Chase Eckerdt, 21, a political science major and director of community affairs in the student government, which last week began a new online voter-registration drive through its Web site. The drive, in conjunction with Rock the Vote, the national nonpartisan youth group, aims to register 10,000 students by November.
More than 39 percent of the residents in Fort Collins, skewed by the university's numbers, are age 18 to 34, compared with about 23 percent nationally.
Sarah Buck, 21, an Obama supporter in 2008, said she planned to vote mainly for Democrats again this fall, even though she said she did not call herself a Democrat. She still believes in Mr. Obama and his agenda and thinks electing more Democrats generally supports the president.
''I'm voting the same way for support at the top,'' said Ms. Buck, a communication studies major.
Sarah Hutt, 21, a double major in Spanish and business, said she would vote Republican, as she did in 2008, but for broader reasons. Then, she said, her opposition to abortion nudged her toward supporting Mr. McCain. This time, it is about economics.
''I'm definitely going to float more toward the Republican spectrum of things,'' Ms. Hutt said.
The Impact of Youth: Articles in this series examine the political issues, voters and stakes in Larimer County, Colo., one swing county in a crucial state.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The youth vote in Fort Collins, Colo., will play a role in a closely watched Congressional election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: Democrats Losing Edge: The share of young people born in 1981 or later who identify themselves with Democrats has dropped, compared with two years ago when two-thirds of the nation's young voted for President Obama, according to recent surveys. Though more than half of the young people surveyed still have a favorable view of President Obama's job performance, the share has fallen substantially. (Source: Pew Research Center for the People & the Press) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HISTORY (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BETSY MARKEY (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (89%) COLORADO, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



72 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: RUN ON DEPOSITS FUELS BANK CRISIS IN AFGHANISTAN

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS; Rod Nordland and Sharifullah Sahak contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- One of the principal owners of the Afghan bank at the center of an accelerating financial crisis here said depositors had withdrawn $180 million in the past two days. He predicted a ''revolution'' in the country's financial system unless the Afghan government and the United States moved quickly to help stabilize the bank.
Khalilullah Frozi, one of the two largest shareholders of Kabul Bank, said reports indicating that the institution had lost as much as $300 million were overstated. But he predicted that if Afghan depositors continued to withdraw their money at the current rate, Kabul Bank would almost certainly collapse, undermining confidence in the nascent financial system the Afghans have been trying to build with American help. 
''If this goes on, we won't survive,'' Mr. Frozi said in an interview. ''If people lose trust in the banks, there will be a revolution in the financial system.''
Afghan leaders promised to guarantee deposits in an attempt to arrest the panic, which began earlier this week when the country's top banking officials demanded the resignations of Mr. Frozi, the bank's chief executive, and the bank's chairman, Sherkhan Farnood.
Afghan and American officials say the two men presided over the bank in a reckless and freewheeling manner, doling out millions to allies of President Hamid Karzai and pouring money into risky investments that crashed.
The bank's troubles -- and the corruption associated with them -- are posing a direct challenge to the country's fledgling financial system, which was built under American guidance after the collapse of the Taliban government in 2001. Kabul Bank, which counts a brother of President Karzai among its politically connected shareholders, illustrates the intertwining of political and economic interests in Afghanistan. Afghan and American regulators said the bank's political connections had shielded it from scrutiny until now.
If the loss of confidence spreads beyond Kabul Bank, it seems almost certain to strain the resources of the Afghan government -- and make it more likely that the United States will be forced to intervene. There were no indications yet that the panic was spreading, but American and Afghan officials said other Afghan banks might face similar troubles.
For now, American officials ruled out any financial assistance. They said they were providing technical assistance to the Afghan government, but nothing more.
''We are taking no steps to bail out Kabul Bank,'' said a White House spokesman, Tommy Vietor. ''We support the Afghan Central Bank's efforts to uphold international standards on transparency and its decisive action in response to reports of fraud at the Kabul Bank.''
In a news conference, President Karzai promised that the Afghan government would guarantee all deposits at the threatened institution. The Afghan government had already given Kabul Bank more than $100 million to ensure that it could pay the salaries of about 250,000 public employees, other Afghan officials said. The bank administers the payments for the government.
''People don't need to be worried,'' Mr. Karzai said. ''We've got enough cash to support the bank.
''Even if the whole financial system in Afghanistan collapses, we have enough money to support it,'' he said.
Mr. Karzai, who appeared with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, said the crisis had been invented by the Western press, which he said had raised baseless fears among Afghans.
''The Western press has been covering it in a negative and provocative way,'' he said of Kabul Bank's troubles.
Still, it was not clear that the Afghan government had the legal authority to guarantee Afghan deposits, or the financial wherewithal to shore up the banking system if confidence were to collapse. Mr. Frozi said Kabul Bank retained about $1.1 billion in deposits. That figure alone would equal about a quarter of Afghanistan's foreign currency reserves, which Mr. Karzai said totaled $4.8 billion. Afghan officials said the bank had $2 billion in assets, and $120 million in capital.
Most Afghans do not keep their money in the banking system, and Kabul Bank is tiny by international standards. But creating a credible and stable banking system is an important goal of the American-led effort in the country, which is seeking to help Afghanistan develop a modern economy.
Kabul Bank, one of the biggest private financial institutions that sprang up after the fall of the Taliban, stands at the very center of Afghanistan's political and economic elite. One of Mr. Karzai's brothers, Mahmoud, is a major shareholder, as is Haseen Fahim, the brother of the Afghan first vice president. The bank lent Mr. Fahim, a prominent businessman, as much as $100 million, officials say.
The bank helped finance President Karzai's re-election campaign last year, giving him as much as $14 million, according to a former senior Afghan official. Mr. Frozi denied that.
Mr. Karzai chose the bank to administer much of the government's payroll, which Mr. Frozi described as one of the bank's most lucrative fields of business.
In the interview, Mr. Frozi said he was mystified by the abrupt loss of confidence in his bank. He conceded that many of the bank's investments had lost money, but he said that none of them were irrecoverable. The biggest mistake, he said, was the decision by his partner, Mr. Farnood, to buy $160 million worth of villas and office buildings in Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, at the height of the real estate bubble in 2007.
The next year, the market collapsed. Many of the villas are occupied by prominent Afghans, like former Vice President Ahmed Zia Massoud and Mahmoud Karzai.
''Nobody could have predicted the crisis,'' Mr. Frozi said.
Kabul Bank also lent $100 million to Haseen Fahim. His brother, Muhammad Fahim, the Afghan first vice president, has been calling bank officials repeatedly this week from Germany to try to save whatever he can of his family's money, two Afghans close to the bank said.
The troubles at Kabul Bank, which tie the Fahim and Karzai families together, could strain the alliance between President Karzai and Vice President Fahim. Mr. Fahim, an ethnic Tajik who fought against the Taliban, provides crucial political support to Mr. Karzai's government.
Mahmoud Karzai said that he thought the bank could weather the crisis, and that the collapse of confidence that unfolded over the past few days was unwarranted.
''This is nothing but a panic,'' Mr. Karzai said. ''People are under the impression that the bank is failing, and it's not.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Customers crowded Kabul Bank's main branch on Wednesday. The bank's problems have set off a rush to withdraw. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (84%); BAILOUTS (78%); TALIBAN (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



73 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Burger King Agrees to $4 Billion Private Equity Offer

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Burger King agreed on Thursday to sell itself to an investment firm with roots in Brazil in a deal valued at $4 billion, including the assumption of debt.
The deal is the largest leveraged buyout of a fast-food chain ever, according to the market researcher CapitalIQ, and the second for Burger King in the last eight years.
Burger King's potential new owner, 3G Capital, is backed by wealthy Brazilians, including a billionaire and former tennis champion whom Warren E. Buffett called a ''good friend.'' 
3G decided upon Burger King as a potential investment several months ago and began a series of friendly discussions with the fast-food chain's management, people with direct knowledge of the talks said. (The deal talks were code named ''blue,'' for Blue Lagoon Drive, the Miami street where Burger King's headquarters is located.)
The investment firm plans to expand Burger King's presence internationally, especially in Latin America and Asia.
''The iconic Burger King brand, its solid franchisee network and great product offerings make this a perfect fit for 3G Capital,'' Alexandre Behring, 3G's managing partner, said in a statement.
Yet in North America, where Burger King derives nearly 70 percent of its revenue, the chain has struggled. Last week, the company forecast weak demand in its new fiscal year and cautioned that uncertainty regarding the costs of wheat and beef could affect its results.
Analysts point to weaknesses like Burger King's menu, which is less varied than McDonald's. Burger King's customers, largely younger men, have also suffered more from the economic slowdown.
On Thursday, Mr. Behring and Burger King's chairman and chief executive, John Chidsey, spoke to Burger King employees in Miami about the deal, assuring them that 3G would continue to invest in the company.
Mr. Chidsey is expected to retain his current roles until the deal closes. After that, Mr. Behring will take on the title of co-chairman alongside Mr. Chidsey. 3G is working with the company to find a new chief executive.
Under the terms of the deal, 3G will pay $24 a share for Burger King, or $3.26 billion, a 46 percent premium to Burger King's share price before reports emerged that the fast-food giant was in sales talks.
While some analysts questioned the price of the deal, Burger King's stock had climbed as high as $22.06 as recently as April. 3G believes that the public markets have undervalued the company. Shares in Burger King jumped more than 25 percent on Thursday, closing at $23.59.
One week before Burger King agreed to a sale, the volume of call options to buy the company's stock jumped to 37,427, about 20 times the average of the previous four weeks, Bloomberg News reported.
3G expects to begin its tender offer no later than Sept. 17 and to close the deal in the fourth quarter this year. Burger King has the right to solicit higher offers through Oct. 12 under what is known as a ''go shop'' period.
The fast-food giant was last taken private in 2002 by three buyout firms -- TPG Capital, Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs's private equity unit -- but it returned to the public markets in 2006, and has since underperformed McDonald's in the stock market.
3G's investments have been focused mainly on consumer-oriented companies. Among 3G's backers is Jorge Paulo Lemann, a former investment banker who also serves on Anheuser-Busch InBev's board. (It also employs Marc Mezvinsky, who married Chelsea Clinton last month.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Burger King in Glenview, Ill. This is the second buyout of the company in eight years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TANNEN MAURY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); 3G WIRELESS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); FRANCHISING (79%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); TENNIS (71%); SPORTS (71%); FRANCHISEES (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (95%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (57%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (95%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (95%)

PERSON: JOHN W CHIDSEY (79%); WARREN BUFFETT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) BRAZIL (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



74 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: The Alternate History

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The Democrats could be heading toward a defeat of historic proportions in November, but it is possible to imagine a scenario in which things might have turned out differently:
On Dec. 16, 2008, President-elect Barack Obama and his senior aides gathered for a briefing on the state of the U.S. economy. It was horrifying. The economy was on the verge of collapse. There was little prospect that robust growth would be returning anytime soon.
Many of the president-elect's advisers had been reading histories of the New Deal. They had ambitious plans to address the crisis: federal jobs programs, new building projects, new spending initiatives. This was no time to worry about deficits, they said. This was an opportunity to address needs that had been neglected for decades. 
Obama, in this fanciful version, held up his hand. He told his aides to put away the history books and reject the New Deal comparisons. Unlike in 1932, Americans today have a raging distrust of Washington, he observed. Living through a crisis caused by excessive debt, they will viscerally recoil at the prospect of federal debt without end. ''Somehow,'' Obama concluded, ''we have to address the crisis without further terrifying the American people.''
The stimulus package, he continued, should rely heavily on cutting payroll taxes. This, he argued, will send a quick jolt to the economy without concentrating power in Washington. It will deliver a sharp psychological boost to the middle class. It might even be bipartisan. Obama noted that John McCain had a $445 billion stimulus plan along these lines and his fellow Republican senator, Mel Martinez, a $713 billion plan.
Nancy Pelosi and the Democratic committee chairmen were upset. For decades they'd been storing up spending proposals. This was their chance to pass them all. The president told the House speaker that she would get many of her priorities, but not in a 100-day rush. Privately, Democratic aides developed a political strategy they called Save Nancy From Herself.
She may know San Francisco, they warned, but she doesn't know America. If she has her way, the Democratic Party will spiral back to 40 percent support and she'll be minority leader again.
Obama and his aides wanted to pick fights with Republicans, but on their own terms. Above all, they wanted to avoid the big government versus small government debate of the past few decades. This was the one argument Republicans knew how to fight and the one argument Democrats were bound to lose. Instead, they sought to frame the argument around growth and productivity -- Democratic growth plans versus Republican growth plans.
At about that time, General Motors and Chrysler started teetering. Obama decided to help the companies if they were willing to make the tough choices that would boost long-term competitiveness. It occurred to him that this was the template for the whole country.
For decades, Obama told the nation, America had squandered its advantages and now the crisis had come. There would be no quick fixes. But in this winter of recession, America could rebuild its foundations. It could lay the groundwork for real and lasting prosperity.
Obama put signs around the White House: ''No Quick Fixes.'' Administration officials were forbidden from promising a short-term summer of recovery. They talked incessantly about long-term productivity. Democrats were going to define themselves as the economic Back to Basics Party. They wouldn't let Republicans define them as somehow ''alien'' or ''socialist.''
Obama not only bailed out Detroit, he created an infrastructure bank to rebuild roads and bridges for the long term.
In March, Congress passed an omnibus spending bill, stuffed with earmarks. Obama vetoed it. By this time it was clear that Republicans were going into rejectionist mode. They were opposing everything. To maintain their majority, Democrats would have to separate independents from the Republicans. They had to reassure independents that spending was being controlled.
April brought the cruelest fight: whether to spend the rest of the year getting health care reform or a new energy policy. Obama decided to do energy first. The economy was uppermost on everybody's mind. Americans were wondering where new innovations would come from, what new jobs would emerge.
By doing energy first, Democrats were able to spend the entire summer talking about technological advances, private sector growth and breakthrough productivity gains.
Obama toured one small business after another, and got his energy bill. In the fall, he gave a series of major speeches under the heading: ''Our Children's Economy.'' He laid out a strategy for a century of growth.
Americans didn't like all of it. But this wasn't conventional big government liberalism. The Democrats seemed to be a serious party attending to serious things. When November 2010 rolled around, the unemployment rate was still high, but Democratic leaders had prepared voters for that. In the meantime, America was rebuilding its core, strengthening itself for better days ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



75 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Candidates for California Senate Seat Come to Debate Ready for Battle

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- During her 18 years in the Senate, Barbara Boxer has earned a reputation for being unafraid to confront colleagues, conservatives or even the United States Army Corps of Engineers, as she did last year when she chided a brigadier general for calling her ''ma'am'' during testimony instead of ''Senator.''
That incident -- and its appropriateness -- was just one of many issues that arose Wednesday night during a feisty debate between Ms. Boxer, a Democrat considered one of the Senate's liberal linchpins, and Carly Fiorina, her Republican challenger. 
Ms. Boxer's combativeness was on display from the opening moments, as she reminded viewers and the audience at St. Mary's College in Moraga, Calif., that Ms. Fiorina had been ''terminated'' from her job as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard in 2005 by the company's board, which was unhappy with its stock performance.
Ms. Fiorina seemed willing to fight back, calling Ms. Boxer ''one of the most bitterly partisan members'' of the United States Senate, who had uttered ''a lot of great words.''
''But in the real world,'' Ms. Fiorina said, ''actions speak louder than words.''
The conventional wisdom around the 2010 race, which polls show to be essentially a dead heat, is that it will center on the economy and jobs, not a surprise in a state with more than 12 percent unemployment and a chronic budget deficit. But the debate -- the only one scheduled thus far -- also showed that more intangible, non-pocketbook things like class and social issues might also play a part.
The right to an abortion, in particular -- which is supported by more than 70 percent of Californians, according to a recent Field Poll -- proved a somewhat knotty topic for Ms. Fiorina, who opposes it and said she would support overturning Roe v. Wade, which legalized abortion, ''if there were an opportunity.''
But she quickly added, ''It's not an issue that I'm running on.''
By contrast, Ms. Fiorina seemed more comfortable talking about the economy, offering a kind of hard-eyed realism to issues of global competition. ''This is the 21st century: any job can go anywhere,'' she said, adding that Californians would have to compete with other states and nations in a way they had not in the past.
The campaign is the first to pit two women from the major parties in a race for a California seat in the Senate, and both candidates made efforts to define -- or redefine -- themselves during the hourlong event, according to Robin Lakoff, a professor of linguistics at the University of California, Berkeley, and the author of several books on the language of politics.
As the incumbent, Ms. Boxer came in as the known quantity, said Ms. Lakoff. ''Her job is to make people like her, and override the negatives,'' she said. ''Fiorina, on the other hand, people don't know who she is. So her job is to introduce herself and make people know her and think she could be a senator.''
To that end, Ms. Lakoff said, while Senator Boxer ''came out very warm and personal,'' Ms. Fiorina was sharper and fact-driven. ''She came off not nearly as nice as Boxer, but you came away with the impression that this was a person who knew her facts,'' she said.
Mark Baldassare, the president and chief executive officer of the Public Policy Institute of California, a nonprofit, nonpartisan think tank, said he still believed that the economy would be a central focus of voters, but that parrying on other issues was also likely and could be critical. After all, he said, one in five California voters is independent, often socially liberal and fiscally conservative.
''Very often in California, it's about a lot of side issues that become a way of defining the other candidate as too liberal or too conservative,'' Mr. Baldassare said.
Such tactics seemed best on display in the debate's closing moments as Ms. Boxer -- hardly a pauper herself -- tried to portray Ms. Fiorina, a multimillionaire who took a $21 million severance from Hewlett-Packard, as a friend of Wall Street, saying that she would fight only for ''the wealthy, wealthy few, the billionaires, the C.E.O.'s.''
Ms. Fiorina, meanwhile, cast herself as a former small-business owner who had simply lived the American dream. Ms. Boxer, she said, was a member of an elite, entrenched -- and ineffective -- Washington establishment, out of touch with Californians.
''You are asking for one simple thing now,'' she said in closing. ''That we take our government back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barbara Boxer, left, and Carly Fiorina, former head of Hewlett-Packard, on Wednesday. (POOL PHOTO BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ARMIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); ABORTION (67%); LINGUISTICS (66%); BUDGETS (64%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (63%); EXECUTIVES (53%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



76 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: The Real Story

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Next week, President Obama is scheduled to propose new measures to boost the economy. I hope they're bold and substantive, since the Republicans will oppose him regardless -- if he came out for motherhood, the G.O.P. would declare motherhood un-American. So he should put them on the spot for standing in the way of real action.
But let's put politics aside and talk about what we've actually learned about economic policy over the past 20 months. 
When Mr. Obama first proposed $800 billion in fiscal stimulus, there were two groups of critics. Both argued that unemployment would stay high -- but for very different reasons.
One group -- the group that got almost all the attention -- declared that the stimulus was much too large, and would lead to disaster. If you were, say, reading The Wall Street Journal's opinion pages in early 2009, you would have been repeatedly informed that the Obama plan would lead to skyrocketing interest rates and soaring inflation.
The other group, which included yours truly, warned that the plan was much too small given the economic forecasts then available. As I pointed out in February 2009, the Congressional Budget Office was predicting a $2.9 trillion hole in the economy over the next two years; an $800 billion program, partly consisting of tax cuts that would have happened anyway, just wasn't up to the task of filling that hole.
Critics in the second camp were particularly worried about what would happen this year, since the stimulus would have its maximum effect on growth in late 2009 then gradually fade out. Last year, many of us were already warning that the economy might stall in the second half of 2010.
So what actually happened? The administration's optimistic forecast was wrong, but which group of pessimists was right about the reasons for that error?
Start with interest rates. Those who said the stimulus was too big predicted sharply rising rates. When rates rose in early 2009, The Wall Street Journal published an editorial titled ''The Bond Vigilantes: The disciplinarians of U.S. policy makers return.'' The editorial declared that it was all about fear of deficits, and concluded, ''When in doubt, bet on the markets.''
But those who said the stimulus was too small argued that temporary deficits weren't a problem as long as the economy remained depressed; we were awash in savings with nowhere to go. Interest rates, we said, would fluctuate with optimism or pessimism about future growth, not with government borrowing.
When in doubt, bet on the markets. The 10-year bond rate was over 3.7 percent when The Journal published that editorial; it's under 2.7 percent now.
What about inflation? Amid the inflation hysteria of early 2009, the inadequate-stimulus critics pointed out that inflation always falls during sustained periods of high unemployment, and that this time should be no different. Sure enough, key measures of inflation have fallen from more than 2 percent before the economic crisis to 1 percent or less now, and Japanese-style deflation is looking like a real possibility.
Meanwhile, the timing of recent economic growth strongly supports the notion that stimulus does, indeed, boost the economy: growth accelerated last year, as the stimulus reached its predicted peak impact, but has fallen off -- just as some of us feared -- as the stimulus has faded.
Oh, and don't tell me that Germany proves that austerity, not stimulus, is the way to go. Germany actually did quite a lot of stimulus -- the austerity is all in the future. Also, it never had a housing bubble that burst. And with all that, German G.D.P. is still further below its precrisis peak than American G.D.P. True, Germany has done better in terms of employment -- but that's because strong unions and government policy have prevented American-style mass layoffs.
The actual lessons of 2009-2010, then, are that scare stories about stimulus are wrong, and that stimulus works when it is applied. But it wasn't applied on a sufficient scale. And we need another round.
I know that getting that round is unlikely: Republicans and conservative Democrats won't stand for it. And if, as expected, the G.O.P. wins big in November, this will be widely regarded as a vindication of the anti-stimulus position. Mr. Obama, we'll be told, moved too far to the left, and his Keynesian economic doctrine was proved wrong.
But politics determines who has the power, not who has the truth. The economic theory behind the Obama stimulus has passed the test of recent events with flying colors; unfortunately, Mr. Obama, for whatever reason -- yes, I'm aware that there were political constraints -- initially offered a plan that was much too cautious given the scale of the economy's problems.
So, as I said, here's hoping that Mr. Obama goes big next week. If he does, he'll have the facts on his side.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BONDS (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



77 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Says He Failed To See Financial Flaws

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Ben S. Bernanke, who told Congress in 2007 that the subprime mortgage crisis was ''likely to be contained,'' said Thursday that he had failed to recognize flaws in the financial system that amplified the housing downturn and led to an economic disaster.
Under pointed but polite questioning from members of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, Mr. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, signaled that the central bank was eager to embrace its expanded powers under the Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law that President Obama signed in July. 
Mr. Bernanke spoke favorably of forcing huge banks to hold much more capital, particularly if they were systemically important -- so much capital that being big would be costly. He declared that ''for capitalism to work,'' executive pay had to be linked to performance. And he said Americans were justifiably angry that bankers ''who drove their companies into a ditch walked off with lots of money.''
He reiterated that the Fed could not have prevented Lehman Brothers from declaring bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, the financial crisis's nadir moment. But he said he might have unwittingly ''supported this myth that we did have a way of saving Lehman,'' by failing to make it clear to Congress at a hearing shortly after the bankruptcy that the Fed did not have other options.
''This is my own fault, in a sense,'' Mr. Bernanke said, adding that he was worried at the time about contributing to panic in the markets. ''I regret not being more straightforward there.''
Mr. Bernanke said that when he made his remarks in 2007 he thought the subprime problems were ''manageable.''
''What I did not recognize was the extent to which the system had flaws and weaknesses in it that were going to amplify the initial shock from subprime and make it into a much bigger crisis,'' he said.
While Mr. Bernanke stuck with his long-held stance that the Fed had not aided the housing bubble by keeping interest rates too low for too long in 2002-4, he embraced the view of Gary B. Gorton, an influential Yale finance professor.
Professor Gorton has compared the crisis to a classic bank run, but with the ''banks'' in this case being short-term wholesale financing markets -- a loosely regulated, uninsured system known as shadow banking.
Mr. Bernanke offered an analogy of his own, likening the housing crisis to E. coli bacteria that can have deadly consequences when passed along through a vulnerable food safety system.
''E. coli got into the food system, and it created a much bigger problem,'' he said. ''There was an awful lot of dependence on short-term, unstable funding, which is analogous to the deposits in banks before the period of deposit insurance.''
Asked about the role of financial innovation in the economy, Mr. Bernanke, said that ''innovation is not always a good thing.'' Some innovations have unpredictable consequences, are used primarily ''to take unfair advantage rather than to create a more efficient market,'' and create systemic risks, he said.
In a 2002 speech when he was a Fed governor, Mr. Bernanke argued that central banks should not try to use monetary policy to pop asset bubbles. As part of his nearly three hours of testimony on Thursday, Mr. Bernanke held to that view, but said that at the time he had called for careful supervision and regulation to maintain financial stability.
''We didn't do that,'' conceded Mr. Bernanke, who became Fed chairman in 2006. ''Going forward, we need to be able to do that.''
As he did in an address to the American Economic Association in January, Mr. Bernanke argued against the perspective that the Fed stood by passively, ''not recognizing the obvious,'' as housing prices soared.
''As of 2003 to 2004, there really was quite a bit of disagreement among economists about whether there was a bubble, how big it was, whether it was just a local or a national bubble,'' Mr. Bernanke testified.
He added: ''By the time it was evident that it was a bubble and that it was going to create risk to the financial system, it was rather late to address it through monetary policy.''
Mr. Bernanke said the most important lesson of the crisis was the need to end the ''too-big-to-fail problem,'' a view echoed by Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, who also testified Thursday.
The Dodd-Frank legislation gives the Fed oversight over the largest financial institutions, including those that are not banks. It gave the Fed a prominent role in the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a body of regulators with the power to seize and break up a systemically important company if it threatens economic stability. The F.D.I.C. would manage that process, known as resolution.
In deciding which large companies will fall under its supervision, Mr. Bernanke said, the Fed will look at size, complexity, interconnectedness and degree of involvement in areas like payments and settlements systems.
He also said the Fed was overhauling how it supervises banks. Alongside traditional examiners, the Fed has assigned additional finance experts, accountants, economists and lawyers to work on oversight. ''We really need to take a much broader, multidisciplinary approach,'' he said.
Mr. Bernanke and Ms. Bair said it was also imperative that the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, an international coordinating body of regulators, impose tougher standards on how much and what kinds of capital banks must hold.
The increased capital requirements should include capital that is more aligned with risk and able to absorb losses more effectively, and that works in a countercyclical manner, so that banks have more of it during times of financial stress, he said.
Several European countries have expressed resistance to the Basel process, seeking either to weaken some of the requirements or to stretch out the period of time before the new rules will take effect.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chief, and Sheila C. Bair of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation testified Thursday before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MOLLY RILEY/REUTERS
 BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); PRODUCT SAFETY (62%); FOOD SAFETY (62%); BACTERIA (62%); E COLI (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (54%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SHEILA BAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



78 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: As Mayor, Brown Remade Oakland's Downtown and Himself

BYLINE: By ZUSHA ELINSON. 
zelinson@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
During his eight years as Oakland mayor, Jerry Brown maintained the idiosyncratic lifestyle associated with his four decades in California politics: He slept on a futon on the floor of his downtown Oakland loft, had a Labrador named Dharma and sometimes performed his mayoral duties while wearing pants with holes in them.
But when he was in City Hall from 1999 to 2007, Mr. Brown pursued an agenda that supporters and critics alike describe as an exercise in hard-nosed big-city politics. In his quest to bring 10,000 new residents to Oakland's abandoned downtown, he cut generous deals with developers, streamlined the approval process and pushed aside city officials who stood in the way.
He also alienated some of his traditional base, progressive and black leaders who derided his policies as ''Jerryfication'' and accused him of abandoning the rest of the city for his downtown dreams. 
A look inside Mr. Brown's 10K Project -- his plan to attract 10,000 people to live downtown by 2001, which was the cornerstone of his tenure as mayor -- reveals the transformation of his political career. Ultimately, it helped lead to his latest candidacy for governor.
''Jerry Brown is an interesting animal,'' said Ignacio De La Fuente, who served as City Council president during Mr. Brown's terms. ''He has come from the liberal hypothetical philosophical guy to a guy that learned that the only way to get stuff done is pushing the system.''
Wilson Riles Jr., a former councilman who lost a bid to unseat Mr. Brown in 2002, said Mr. Brown decided to become mayor ''to change his image from Governor Moonbeam to an image of someone who can get down and dirty and make change in a tough urban city.''
''I would say that Oakland definitely did more for Jerry than Jerry did for Oakland,'' Mr. Riles said.
Mr. Brown's 10K plan is still incomplete nearly four years after he left Oakland to become the state's attorney general. The city has said it will take 6,000 new units to house 10,000 residents. To date, 3,549 units have been completed from projects approved during the Brown years. Another 310 are under construction. More than 2,149 have been approved but have yet to be built. According to the city, they are stalled by the recession.
There is no official count of new residents, but Mr. Brown's efforts have certainly changed downtown Oakland. Empty parking lots have been transformed into apartment buildings. New bars, restaurants and the refurbished Fox Theater -- financed in part by the city under Mr. Brown -- have spurred night life and a growing arts scene.
''I saw that we had the transportation to build a vibrant center, and that was my goal,'' Mr. Brown said in an interview this week. ''We needed housing and not just for people that are hanging on or people who live on subsidies, but people who have disposable income that can go to the art galleries and restaurants.''
Mr. Brown said that the only way for Oakland to rebound was to get money flowing from private developers.
''Maybe some people think it was anti-progressive,'' he said. ''I'm just telling you I don't have that ideological baggage.''
Mr. Brown expanded his office's powers with the so-called ''strong mayor'' measure. He put his allies on the Port and Planning Commissions and endorsed City Council candidates who favored his agenda.
Mr. Brown shook up Oakland's planning process to get projects approved faster. In 2003 he ousted Leslie Gould, the policy-focused planning director, replacing her with Claudia Cappio, a development director who had served in a similar position in fast-growing Emeryville. He also successfully lobbied the state to exempt more Oakland projects from the state's lengthy environmental review process.
''He focused his planning department not on policy, not on zoning, but on getting deals done,'' said Jane Brunner, the current City Council president.
The centerpiece of the 10K project is the Uptown, three low-rise buildings with a modernist flair, built by the national developer Forest City. Mr. Brown courted the company -- and made a deal to give it a $61 million subsidy to build in Oakland. The project was approved in 2004 by the City Council and opened in 2008 across the street from Sears on Telegraph Avenue.
Of the 665 units in the Uptown, 638 have been leased, according to the company. The Uptown was at one time slated as a condominium project, but like many other 10K projects, the owners turned the units into rentals after the economy soured.
Mike Ghielmetti, president of Signature Properties, said Mr. Brown opened the doors of City Hall to developers.
''He was very accessible,'' said Mr. Ghielmetti, whose projects included the Broadway Grand building and a 3,100-unit development that has yet to be built. ''He listened to the business community and didn't necessarily agree with everything we had to say, but he tried to make sure that if there were just bureaucratic issues, that things got taken care of.''
At the same time, advocates of affordable housing felt that Mr. Brown slammed the door on them. They sought an inclusionary zoning policy that would have required a certain percentage of units in each new development to be made affordable to low-income residents.
''We are the only major Bay Area municipality without an inclusionary zoning ordinance,'' said Junious Williams, Jr., chief executive of the Urban Strategies Council. ''Had we had something during the period of the economic boom, I'm not sure it would've dissuaded people from developing because Oakland was still such a deal. It seemed like a natural win-win.''
In the end, community organizations like the Urban Strategies Council fought the city to get affordable housing included in individual projects like the Uptown, which built 25 percent of its housing to be affordable.
''The problem is that the local issues aren't heard beyond Oakland,'' said Mr. Riles, the former mayoral opponent. ''What they hear is that here's this good liberal guy doing moderate things for the business community, but you don't hear about the details, the big subsidies to the developers, the issues with gentrification, the local and minority contractors who didn't get work.''
Mr. Brown said that what he did ''was necessary for Oakland,'' saying that each city is its ''own organism.''
Meg Whitman, the Republican gubernatorial candidate, rarely mentions the 10K project. A spokeswoman for her campaign said that ''Jerry Brown can try and debate his philosophy'' and then questioned him on his views on taxes. The Whitman campaign has focused on Mr. Brown's record on education in Oakland, which was not as notable.
With the race for a new Oakland mayor in full swing, Mr. Brown said he was supporting Don Perata, a more conservative Democrat, who is supported by businesses and the police union. Mr. Perata, a strong-willed politician who ran the State Senate, was the target of a now-closed, five-year F.B.I. investigation into kickbacks.
''We need a strong hand at the tiller,'' Mr. Brown said.
When Mr. Brown was asked if Mr. Perata would run Oakland as he had, the former mayor said, ''I think he will.''
He added, ''I have certain unique qualities, and I am not a deal maker in that sense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jerry Brown
 The new Uptown apartments, just blocks from Oakland City Hall, on Wednesday. Jerry Brown was a factor in their construction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICS (90%); MAYORS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); GOVERNORS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



79 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1847 words

HEADLINE: Japan Counted on Cheap Yen. Oops.

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- For all the turmoil over Toyota's wave of recalls, the company, the world's largest automaker, may face a bigger problem: the surging yen.
With the yen at 15-year highs against the dollar, a 9-year peak versus the euro and still near recent heights against the won, Toyota is finding that its cars have become too expensive to compete in the increasingly cutthroat global auto market. That has created inroads around the world for its non-Japanese rivals, like Volkswagen of Germany, Hyundai of South Korea and the Detroit automakers, all of which are benefiting from relatively weaker currencies.
Hyundai is rapidly increasing its share in major markets, including the United States and China, using record profit to offer aggressive sales incentives that Toyota is struggling to match.
Volkswagen continues to dominate in Europe and across much of the Asia-Pacific region. Its chief executive, Martin Winterkorn, has said the automaker aims to be the world's largest in sales by 2018, up from its current third place. 
Analysts say the yen, which started soaring as a refuge currency in late 2008 in response to the global financial crisis, has highlighted a flaw in Toyota's global production setup. The problem, they say, is that the company depends too heavily on factories and suppliers in its high-cost homeland. Although Toyota is taking steps to improve the ratio, about half of its cars are still assembled in Japan, many of them then shipped overseas.
''Before the yen's surge, Toyota got by with exporting lots of cars, even though it was aware that posed a big currency risk,'' said Takashi Akiyama, vice president at SC-Abeam Automotive Consulting, based in Tokyo.
''They held out for as long as they could, but now they're seeing the consequences of stalling,'' Mr. Akiyama said.
Other big Japanese exporters, like Honda, Nissan, Sony and Canon, feel the yen's burden, too. The country's export growth slowed for the fifth consecutive month in July, weighed down by the strong yen. But because they have moved more of their production overseas in recent years, those companies suffer much less from currency imbalances.
The difference is laid bare in a startling statistic: For every yen that the Japanese currency gains in value against its assumed dollar rate of <5>90, Toyota says, it loses <5>30 billion, or $357 million, in operating profit. If the exchange rate stays at the current <5>84 to a dollar, Toyota's operating profit for its financial year ending next March, which the company forecasts will reach <5>330 billion, could fall by half.
By that same measure, Nissan says it loses only half as much for each yen's gain against the dollar -- about <5>15 billion yen. Sony loses but <5>2 billion.
The unfavorable foreign exchange has probably damaged Toyota more than its series of safety recalls has, by bringing margins to razor-thin levels, and a further rise in the yen raises the specter of operating losses, said Christopher Richter, a senior analyst for the automotive industry at the brokerage firm CLSA.
''Fixing the problem takes a lot of time,'' Mr. Richter said. ''But given how fast the yen has strengthened, time is not Toyota's friend.''
Over the years, of course, Toyota has set up manufacturing operations outside Japan, including the United States, where it makes cars at four assembly plants, helping to buffer the effects of swings in the dollar-yen exchange rate.
Still, many of the cars Toyota sells in the U.S. market are made in Japan, especially after the automaker shuttered a plant in Fremont, California, earlier this year that had made its popular Corolla compact sedan. A total of 35 percent of the cars Toyota sells in North America are imported, compared with 10 percent for Honda.
Toyota is well aware of the need to move production closer to the consumer. Next year, Toyota plans to open a plant in Blue Springs, Mississippi, to build Corollas.
''Our goal is to produce cars where they're sold,'' said Paul Nolasco, a spokesman for Toyota in Tokyo. ''Who knows when, and 100 percent might not be possible, but the idea is to try to make as many cars locally to increase local content,'' he said. ''That just makes business sense.''
Perhaps nowhere does Toyota need to localize production and cut costs more than in emerging markets, where its vehicles are easily undersold by competitors. Take China, now the world's biggest auto market, where sales of the Yaris compact have fallen far short of expectations since its introduction in 2008. Although Toyota assembles the Yaris in China to take advantage of that country's much cheaper labor, many of the parts still come from Toyota suppliers like Denso and Aisin.
That helps push the Yaris's price tag to more than 100,000 renminbi, or almost $15,000, making it hard to compete with the likes of the new Verna subcompact sedan from Hyundai, priced as low as 73,900 renminbi, or the popular Buick Excelle from General Motors, which carries a slightly higher price tag than a Yaris but has a larger, sleeker body -- delivering more bang for a buck, analysts say.
Toyota had only 5.2 percent of China's auto market last year, trailing Hyundai, General Motors and the Chinese market leader, Volkswagen, whose Jetta family car starts at about 75,000 renminbi and is pervasive in the big cities.
In another big emerging market, India, Toyota plans to introduce the Etios compact car later this year, which analysts expect will be priced about 500,000 rupees, or $11,000 -- significantly higher than the most popular models in India like the Alto from Maruti Suzuki, which starts at 323,000 rupees, or the Hyundai i10, which sells for 350,000 rupees.
Much of that pricing is deliberate: analysts say Toyota wants to build an upmarket image in India. Still, Toyota has much to learn from the market leader Maruti, a subsidiary of the Japanese automaker Suzuki that builds cars in India and procures almost all of its parts locally. Though Toyota also builds cars in India, many of its parts are from outside the country, adding to production costs. Toyota currently commands only 2.5 percent of the Indian car market, far behind Maruti Suzuki's 40 percent.
Toyota's slim market shares in India and China are worrisome to the company because emerging markets are expected to make up for most of the growth in the global auto industry. According to the Englewood, Colo.-based research firm, IHS Automotive, car sales in emerging economies like China and India will surge 81 percent - from about 25.8 million units in 2009 to almost 47 million units in 2016. During that time, sales in industrialized economies will grow at half that rate, from 31.7 million to 45.3 million, or an increase of 43 percent, according to IHS Automotive.
To capture a bigger part of those burgeoning markets, Toyota says it is seeking to increase local production and its use of locally supplied parts in both India and China. But it takes time and sizable investment to set up local production networks, analysts say.
''Toyota already knows that it must shift more production overseas, and it must make a push into emerging markets,'' said Masatoshi Nishimoto, senior manager at IHS Automotive. ''But it isn't an easy task to build supplier networks overseas,'' he said. ''Then there's the question of what to do with the excess capacity in Japan.''
The challenge demonstrates how Toyota is paying for not moving more production to lower-cost countries during a manufacturing boom in the mid-2000s, when Toyota enjoyed record profits. The yen stayed weak during that time, helping to make Toyota competitive and fueling the company's global expansion.
Toyota held back from shifting production away from Japan and procuring components from overseas parts makers, analysts say, partly because of its traditionally strong relationship with many Japanese suppliers.
Toyota's smaller compatriot, Nissan, has been more aggressive in shifting production overseas. This year, it transplanted the entire production line for its popular March minicar to Thailand, for example, and now imports cars even for the Japanese market from its Thai factory -- an unprecedented move for a Japanese automaker. But the shift makes sense: Personnel costs at its main factory in Oppama, Japan were 10 times those in Thailand.
It is non-Japanese global automakers like General Motors, Volkswagen and a new rising star, Hyundai, that are poised to benefit most from Toyota's troubles.
Volkswagen, of Germany, was an early entrant into the Chinese market and enjoys an almost 20 percent market share there -- the highest among foreign automakers. And Volkswagen continues to dominate in Europe, where Japanese automakers have recently been shut out by a prohibitively high exchange rate.
Meanwhile, Hyundai, of South Korea, is reaping the rewards of a weak won, which has bolstered its competitiveness alongside its Japanese rivals. In China, it leads Japanese automakers with a 6.2 percent share in 2009, and has also garnered 14 percent of Indian market, where it plans to bring out a car that costs as little as $5,000 by 2012.
In the United States, the weak won has allowed Hyundai to offer much more aggressive sales incentives than Toyota, allowing it to chip away at Toyota's market share, which fell to 15.2 percent in August from 16.6 percent at the start of the year.
Ford, Nissan and Volkswagen, by contrast, have added market share in the United States.
Still, Toyota is in a tough spot. Moving production overseas would inevitably mean cutting capacity -- and jobs -- in Japan, something the automaker has hitherto avoided. Exporters are under immense pressure to keep jobs in Japan; however, government hesitation against taking steps to weaken the yen through intervention or monetary policy is adding to exporters' frustrations.
In a Japanese government survey of 102 exporters, released last week, 39 percent of companies said that they would transfer their factories overseas if the yen stayed at current levels.
Some analysts say that it is a good chance for Japan to get over its obsession with manufacturing, move production overseas, and make a long-awaited move into services.
''It would be a tough transition,'' said Kazuki Ohara, a senior management consultant at the Tokyo-based Nomura Research Institute. ''But instead of trying to curb the strong yen or ride it out,'' he said, ''it would be better for Japan to build an economy that thrives on a strong currency.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Online Correction: September 2, 2010, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated projected growth rates and projected size of the Chinese and Indian auto markets by 2016, as well as the growth and projected size of the market in industrialized countries. The Chinese and Indian markets will grow by 81 percent, according to the research firm IHS Automotive, to almost 47 million units by 2016. The industrialized countries market will grow by only about half that rate, to 45.3 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A factory in Toyota City, Japan. Toyota is behind its rivals in setting up plants overseas, which binds it to the strong yen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOSHIFUMI KITAMURA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
CHARTS: Struggling in Major Markets: Toyota, which has been criticized for making too many of its vehicles in Japan, has lost ground in the biggest markets. (Sources: Toyota
 MotorIntelligence.com) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TOYOTA RECALLS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); EURO (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); SALES & SELLING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



80 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17B

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Local Theater Anchors the Fringe Festival

BYLINE: By CHLOE VELTMAN. 
cveltman@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
September is always a big month for small theater in San Francisco. After the inevitable summer burnout on outdoor Shakespeare productions, breezy musicals and tourist-friendly revues, audiences plunder the city's various black-box spaces with a renewed fervor for the fresh and unusual.
At the center of this activity is the Exit Theater, the producer of the annual San Francisco Fringe Festival (Sept. 8 to 19) and one of the biggest stars on the local small-theater stage. Located on a grubby stretch of Eddy Street in the Tenderloin district where patrons have to run a gantlet past overflowing trash cans and sidewalk-sprawled drug users, the Exit Theater is not well known. 
Nor is the local Fringe Festival, a tiny affair compared with similar events in Edinburgh, Scotland; Adelaide, Australia; and Edmonton, Alberta, which are on many people's cultural radar. The 2010 Edinburgh festival had close to 2,500 shows, compared with just 43 at this year's San Francisco event.
Yet since its founding in 1983, the Exit Theater has had an impact on the local alternative theater arts scene. Each year, it presents some 75 companies and artists and more than 500 shows.
During this year's Fringe Festival, the theater will inaugurate a new performance studio -- its fifth space -- within the warrenlike Exit Theaterplex. Mark Jackson, whose Art Street Theater company regularly appeared at the Exit Theater from 1995 to 2004, said: ''The Exit provides affordable space for young artists to produce their own work. When they recognize that an artist or company makes consistently good work, they also make sure there is room in the annual schedule for them.''
The Exit Theater's recent start of a publishing arm is another sign of its commitment to artists. Its first book was a 500-page volume of plays by Mr. Jackson, who has gone on to write and direct plays in bigger theaters like the Aurora Theater in Berkeley. Scripts by Mark Knego, another Exit dramatist, will be the organization's next release.
The Exit's growth spurt has implications for other small theaters in its orbit.
In order to contain costs and consolidate its audience, this year the Exit Theater is not partnering with other auditoriums to present Fringe performances as it has in the past. Instead, all of the shows, with the exception of three site-specific productions, will happen in Exit Theater spaces.
''The festival has always been a push to manage,'' said Christina Augello, the theater's founder and artistic director. ''With our additional space, we are able to bring everything in-house, which is easier on our finances and will better serve artists and audiences.''
The move makes sense for the Exit Theater, which has an annual operating budget of $320,000 and only three full-time paid staff members. (The theater relies on around 100 volunteers, and Ms. Augello and Richard Livingston, the theater's managing director, both work additional part-time jobs.)
But the organization's former Fringe collaborators are concerned. ''It's a smart decision for the Exit but a bummer for the rest of us because the Fringe gave us a break from self-producing,'' said Joe Landini, the artistic director of the Garage, a black-box theater in SoMa that presented Fringe shows in previous years.
Jessica Heidt, the artistic director of the Climate Theater, said, ''It's a shame because the Fringe helped to unite the disparate small-theater community.''
Despite the geographic contraction of the city's Fringe Festival and a recent wave of closures and forced relocations within the small-theater community, San Francisco's emerging performance scene is beginning to show fresh signs of expansion. Many of these developments link back to the Exit Theater. Sean Owens, a performer-playwright with longstanding Exit Theater ties, is working with the mayor's office to convert a former pornographic film theater on Turk Street into a performance space for puppetry, burlesque, ventriloquism and other niche art forms.
And Mr. Landini is spearheading a new arts festival in the Tenderloin (24 Days of Central Market Arts) that from Sept. 24 to Oct. 17 will present performances by such companies as the Alonzo King Lines Ballet and host the Fringe Festival's annual ''Best of the Fringe'' event.
Local government is capitalizing on the Exit Theater's substantial influence to help bring about further change in the dilapidated Central Market and Tenderloin neighborhoods. The theater is part of the Mid-Market Project Area Committee and, Amy Cohen of the Mayor's Office of Economic and Workforce Development said, is helping to inspire other artists to move into the area.
''We believe the most effective strategy for cultivating an arts district in the Tenderloin and Central Market is to build on the assets that are there,'' Ms. Cohen said. ''The Exit is a major asset, and its continued expansion will enhance the art scene substantially.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Newspaper clippings for the 2010 Fringe Festival were posted Tuesday at the Exit Theater in the Tenderloin district. Christina Augello, left, is the festival's founder and artistic director, and Richard Livingston is the managing director. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (67%); BUDGETS (65%); PUBLISHING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (72%); ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SOUTH AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SCOTLAND (78%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



81 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Bronzeville, a Neighborhood Whose Promise Has Been Stalled

BYLINE: By RACHEL CROMIDAS

 BODY:
Margo Strotter considered herself proof that the revival of Bronzeville was under way. She opened a sandwich and smoothie bar at 45th Street and Cottage Grove Avenue in early 2006 and waited for other businesses, inspired by a booming real estate market, to follow her lead.
Four years later, she and Nicole Jones, owner of the designer shoe store next door, are still waiting. No new stores have opened among the empty lots on their street corner since 2008, when development was stalled by the credit crisis and the city's failed Olympics bid.
Ms. Strotter and Ms. Jones -- along with the owners of a jewelry boutique, a coffee house and a menswear store -- are among the commercial pioneers who tried to cash in on the buzz surrounding the South Side neighborhood that was once blighted by high-rise housing projects. Now their ventures are a cautionary tale: They are struggling to stay open and instill a sense of community on a street that is quiet during the day and has little sign of night life. 
Bronzeville is one of many West Side and South Side areas that lured developers eager to take risks at the height of the national real estate boom. Revitalization of the South Loop was well under way by 2004 and attracted new restaurants, condominiums, coffee shops and a Target store. Speculators began looking at the depressed land prices in neighborhoods from North Lawndale east to South Shore and north to Edgewater.
''The boom petered out before everybody could make realistic investments,'' said Garth Taylor, a senior research fellow at the Metropolitan Chicago Information Center. ''The risks became unreasonable.''
Chicago developers, Mr. Taylor said, ''would rather force another 50,000 square feet of unwanted retail in the middle of Lincoln Park.''
Ms. Strotter is one of a dozen black entrepreneurs since 2003 who have started businesses on the south end of the Cottage Grove Corridor. Their vision was to recreate the ''Black Metropolis'' of the 1950s, when Bronzeville was a bustling center of Chicago's black middle class and a renowned night-life destination.
''Everything was here, the butcher, the baker,'' Ms. Strotter said. ''After church, you might go to the skating rink, the theater.''
That legacy, plus the area's location near downtown and the lake -- and its desirable housing stock -- were among the reasons the entrepreneurs decided to locate there. Ms. Trotter was also encouraged by a local community development group started by Alderman Toni Preckwinkle (4th Ward).
With a booming real estate market and Grand Boulevard's crime rates falling after demolition of Chicago Housing Authority high-rises, the commercial possibilities were promising: a sports bar, a fitness club, a shopping mall, a supermarket.
Developers spread their blueprints across the tables of Ms. Strotter's cafe -- the only sit-down restaurant for blocks -- to map their plans for Bronzeville's transformation. They were interested in the empty lot across the street and another one two blocks south. They promised they would be back, but they have been slow to return.
''Vacant lots were on the verge of being developed and were going to be worth millions of dollars,'' said Steven Rogers, director of the Levy Institute for Entrepreneurial Practice at Northwestern University. ''Now they won't be developed for the next three years.''
The juxtaposition of boarded buildings and new condominiums in the far North Side Edgewater community and the South Side's South Shore tell a similar story of boom and bust, Mr. Rogers said.
Even as the financial crisis neared, developers were willing to make financial bets on former West Side and South Side slums, Mr. Taylor said. The risks were highest in the areas where public housing projects had been razed, he said.
Those hoping to cash in on the projected influx of condominium buyers are now stranded with no clear consumer base -- though there are some higher-income-earning professionals, the neighborhood's residents also include former public housing residents, students, and the elderly .
Shelby Thomas still saw potential in 2009 when he opened a day spa. He even viewed the quiet streets as a positive quality.
Mr. Thomas, who previously worked at upscale spas on Michigan Avenue, has yet to turn a profit since he began offering facials, massages, waxing and accupressure to clients who come mainly from the suburbs. To cut costs, in May he began living in the spa, which is in a spacious loft that was built in 2008, and he drew up a budget that did not include cooking gas or air conditioning.
''I unplug everything,'' Mr. Thomas said. ''I don't cook.''
In a neighborhood where the more affluent residents are accustomed to driving north to the Loop's shopping districts to buy luxury items, survival also depends on cross-promotion. Mr. Thomas encourages his clients to visit Faie's African Art Gallery next door, where paintings and sculptures can sell for several thousand dollars, or Fort Smith's Gift Shop, where the store's namesake sells his custom-made jewelry. Business owners say the sense of a shared project -- creating a retail district without the help of big-box chains or wealthy developers -- is what holds them together.
The nonprofit Quad Communities Development Corporation, founded by Ms. Preckwinkle, offers incentives to attract small businesses to the neighborhood, including marketing and consulting, and helps them find real estate agents, grants and loans. The organization is also negotiating with commercial developers to create a 60,000-square-foot retail plaza on 47th Street.
The project, which would include office and rental units, was postponed when the condominium market collapsed. One of the developers, the Skilken Corporation, secured financing earlier this year, and construction is slated to begin by the end of 2011, said Frank Petruziello, a principal with Skilken.
The Chicago Housing Authority is planning a mixed-use housing project four blocks north of 47th Street on Cottage Grove Avenue on the former site of the Washington Park Homes, but ground-breaking is still years away and financing for the project is uncertain, said Matthew Aguilar, a spokesman for the housing authority.
Those development prospects, and the general spirit of community building, have not been enough to keep everyone in the Cottage Grove commercial district.
After spending three years on 44th Street and Cottage Grove, Cory Gilkey, the owner of the trendy clothing store Leaders, gave up. Worried about crime and disillusioned by the trash-strewn vacant lots, boarded-up buildings and other remnants of blight on his block, Mr. Gilkey moved in January 2009 to North Wells Street with its better foot traffic for ''peace of mind,'' he said. He also opened another store in Wicker Park.
''We got burglarized a few times, and the police said it was because we were an expensive store,'' Mr. Gilkey said. ''I have clients from England, Japan and Germany, and we would be concerned about their safety.''
And all the visions for Bronzeville's comeback were not enough to keep him there, he said.
''We were promised there would be a total shopping metropolis,'' Mr. Gilkey said, ''but in my three years, I never saw anything done. We couldn't get inspired by anything down there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from upper left, Margo Strotter, left, owns the ''Ain't She Sweet Cafe'' in Bronzeville. Loron Pikofsky is the fourth generation of his family to own Chicago Furniture, also in Bronzeville. A mixed-use mall is planned for this lot on South Cottage Grove Avenue. Shelby Thomas runs a spa out of his Bronzeville condo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BONNIE TRAFELET/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RETAILERS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); HOME PRICES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); SHOE STORES (71%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (71%); OLYMPICS (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); MEN'S CLOTHING (54%); CRIME RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010



82 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: New York Poll Finds Wariness for Muslim Site

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Marina Stefan, Dalia Sussman and Megan Thee-Brenan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Two-thirds of New York City residents want a planned Muslim community center and mosque to be relocated to a less controversial site farther away from ground zero in Lower Manhattan, including many who describe themselves as supporters of the project, according to a New York Times poll.
The poll indicates that support for the 13-story complex, which organizers said would promote moderate Islam and interfaith dialogue, is tepid in its hometown.
Nearly nine years after the Sept. 11 attacks ignited a wave of anxiety about Muslims, many in the country's biggest and arguably most cosmopolitan city still have an uneasy relationship with Islam. One-fifth of New Yorkers acknowledged animosity toward Muslims. Thirty-three percent said that compared with other American citizens, Muslims were more sympathetic to terrorists. And nearly 60 percent said people they know had negative feelings toward Muslims because of 9/11. 
Over all, 50 percent of those surveyed oppose building the project two blocks north of the World Trade Center site, even though a majority believe that the developers have the right to do so. Thirty-five percent favor it.
Opposition is more intense in the boroughs outside Manhattan -- for example, 54 percent in the Bronx -- but it is even strong in Manhattan, considered a bastion of religious tolerance, where 41 percent are against it.
The poll was conducted Aug. 27 to 31 with 892 adults. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.
It suggested that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the center's most ardent and public defender, has not unified public opinion around the issue. Asked if they approved or disapproved of how he had handled the subject, city residents were evenly split.
While a majority said politicians in New York should take a stand on the issue, most disapprove of those outside the city weighing in: Newt Gingrich and Sarah Palin, among others, have tried to rally opposition to the center.
The debate over the religious center has captivated much of the city: 66 percent said they had heard or read a lot about it, and follow-up interviews with respondents showed that the topic was leading to emotional and searching conversations in living rooms and workplaces throughout the city.
''My granddaughter and I were having this conversation and she said stopping them from building is going against the freedom of religion guaranteed by our Constitution,'' said Marilyn Fisher, 71, who lives in the Bensonhurst neighborhood of Brooklyn. ''I absolutely agree with her except in this case. I think everything in this world is not black and white; there is always a gray area and the gray area right now is sensitivity to those affected by 9/11, the survivors of the people lost.''
Sentiments about the center appear to be heavily shaped by personal background and experiences. Those who have visited mosques or have close Muslim friends are more likely to support the center than those who have few interactions with Islam.
More than half -- 53 percent -- of city residents with incomes over $100,000 back the center; only 31 percent of those with incomes under $50,000 agree. Protestants are evenly divided, while most Catholic and Jewish New Yorkers oppose the center.
Age also plays a role. Those under 45 are evenly divided (42 percent for, 43 percent against); among those over 45, nearly 60 percent are opposed.
The center's developers, and its defenders, have sought to portray opponents as a small but vocal group.
The poll, however, reveals a more complicated portrait of the opposition in New York: 67 percent said that while Muslims had a right to construct the center near ground zero, they should find a different site.
Most strikingly, 38 percent of those who expressed support for the plan to build it in Lower Manhattan said later in a follow-up question that they would prefer it be moved farther away, suggesting that even those who defend the plan question the wisdom of the location.
Richard Merton, 56, a real estate broker who lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, exemplifies those mixed and seemingly contradictory feelings.
''Freedom of religion is one of the guarantees we give in this country, so they are free to worship where they chose,'' Mr. Merton said. ''I just think it's very bad manners on their part to be so insensitive as to put a mosque in that area.''
Opponents offered differing opinions on how far the complex should be built from ground zero. One-fifth said at least 20 blocks, while almost the same number said at least 10 blocks. Seven percent said at least five blocks.
''Personally I would prefer it not be built at all, but if it is going to be built it should be at least 20 blocks away,'' said Maria Misetzis, 30, of the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn.
As the fight over the center escalated from a zoning dispute into a battle in the culture wars, it has splintered New Yorkers along political lines. Seventy-four percent of Republicans are opposed; Democrats are split, with 43 percent for and 44 percent against.
Even though President Obama is highly popular in New York City, residents are divided over his handling of the issue (he defended the center, then seemed to backtrack slightly). Thirty-two percent approve of his approach, while 27 percent disapprove.
It is not clear, however, that any politician is successfully harnessing the strong feelings around the issue. Even though both Republican candidates for New York governor, Rick A. Lazio and Carl P. Paladino, have sought to make the Islamic center an issue in the race, two-thirds of those polled said it would have no influence on how they made their choice for governor. The poll showed that the economy and jobs remained the most pressing concerns.
Yet those who said the issue would affect their vote were four times as likely to support a candidate who is against the center than one who backs it.
The intensity of feeling is greater among opponents. Nearly three-quarters of respondents who disapprove of the project say they feel strongly; only half of those who back it do so.
''Give them an inch, they'll take a yard,'' Ms. Misetzis said. ''They want to build a mosque wherever they can. And once they start praying there, it is considered hallowed ground and can't be taken away. Ever. That's why we're having this tug of war between New Yorkers and the Islamic people.''
John Dewey, 65, of the Rego Park section of Queens, expressed his view in more practical terms.
''We can't say all Muslims are terrorists,'' Mr. Dewey said. ''There is a huge population of Muslims throughout the world, and we will have to deal constantly with them in the future. If we make enemies constantly, then we will constantly have war.''
How the Poll Was Conducted: The latest New York Times poll was based on telephone interviews conducted Aug. 27 to 31 in New York City with 892 adults. Interviews were conducted in either English or Spanish. The sample of land-line telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the city. The exchanges were chosen to ensure that each area in the city was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey. To increase coverage, this land-line sample was supplemented by respondents reached through random dialing of cellphone numbers. The two samples were then combined. Interviewers made multiple efforts to reach every phone number in the survey, calling back unanswered numbers on different days at different times of both day and evening. The combined results have been weighted to adjust for variation in the sample relating to borough, sex, race, marital status, age, education and Hispanic descent. In addition, the land-line respondents were weighted to take account of household size and the number of telephone lines into the residence, while the cellphone respondents were weighted according to whether they were reachable only by cellphone or also by land line. In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult New Yorkers. For smaller subgroups, the potential sampling error is larger. Shifts in results between polls over time also have a larger sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording, order and translation of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results. Complete questions and results are available at nytimes.com/poll.
Online Correction: September 3, 2010, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of a chart with this article, listing the questions and responses for the poll, misspelled the president's given name. It is Barack, not Barak.

GRAPHIC:  CHART: New Yorkers' Opinions About the Islamic Center: (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (94%); RELIGION (94%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORISM (75%); POLITICS (72%); MAYORS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); SARAH PALIN (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



83 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: 10 Mistakes By Investors

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SARANOW SCHULTZ

 BODY:
Jerry Miccolis, co-author of ''Asset Allocation for Dummies'' and chief investment officer at the wealth advisory company Brinton Eaton in New Jersey, shared his list of 10 mistakes investors should avoid. 
Let us know in the comments section below what you would add to the list.1.) Overlooking the importance of asset allocation: According to Mr. Miccolis, getting asset allocation right is the building block of investing successfully. Many investors, however, skip this step and instead build their portfolio by haphazardly buying securities they like.
2.) Confusing diversification with asset allocation: Asset allocation goes beyond simple diversification. According to Mr. Miccolis, asset allocation involves picking asset classes (think stocks and bonds) and subclasses/sectors that do not move in synch and then putting the right proportions of each in your portfolio. A portfolio with all stock investments, for instance, probably is not properly allocated.
3.) Neglecting to rebalance regularly: After you set up your initial asset allocation, you need to make sure to keep those allocations on target over time because some asset classes will grow faster than others.
4.) Favoring short-term needs over long-term goals: Rather than focus on short-term goals, invest based on thinking about your long-term goals, income expectations and risk tolerance.
5.) Letting your emotions control you: In these volatile times, it is important to stick with your long-term plan so you do not fall victim to greed and anxiety.
6.) Getting addicted to the financial media: Paying attention to financial news 24-7, according to Mr. Miccolis, will just increase your anxiety, since what the market does in a single day does not matter in the long run.
7.) Chasing performance: Buying the latest hot stock or sector is like ''driving a car by looking in the rear view mirror,'' Mr. Miccolis said in a statement. Generally, by the time you know it is hot, it is old news and there is not much profit left in it.
8.) Trying to outsmart the market: Studies have shown that active management underperforms passive management in the long term.
9.) Disregarding tax implications while investing: ''Common mistakes,'' according to Mr. Miccolis, ''include putting annuities in an I.R.A., putting tax-inefficient investments like REITs in a taxable account, failing to harvest tax losses and not taking advantage of lower tax rates for long-term capital gains.''
10.) Allowing caution to supersede the reality of inflation: Safe, low-return investments like money funds, C.D.'s and Treasury securities will not keep up with inflation over the long haul. ''For most people, inflation is their biggest financial threat over their lifetimes, not what the markets happen to be doing this year,'' Mr. Miccolis said.
What mistakes do you find hard to avoid? For me, for instance, rebalancing can be a pain. What would you add to the list?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); BONDS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



84 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Religious Outlier

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
With all of the consternation about religion in this country, it's sometimes easy to lose sight of just how anomalous our religiosity is in the world. 
A Gallup report issued on Tuesday underscored just how out of line we are. Gallup surveyed people in more than 100 countries in 2009 and found that religiosity was highly correlated to poverty. Richer countries in general are less religious.
But that doesn't hold true for the United States.
Sixty-five percent of Americans say that religion is an important part of their daily lives. That is compared with just 30 percent of the French, 27 percent of the British and 24 percent of the Japanese.
I used Gallup's data to chart religiosity against gross domestic product per capita, and to group countries by their size and dominant religions.
The cliche goes, ''a picture is worth a thousand words.''
Assuming that this holds true for charts, here is mine.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: World of Faith: Spheres for each country are sized relative to their populations. Data not available for all countries. (Source: Gallup, C.I.A. ''The World Factbook'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



85 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: The Art of Thinking Clearly Under Great Pressure

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
In his book ''Clutch: Why Some People Excel Under Pressure and Others Don't'' (Portfolio, 2010), Paul Sullivan looks at the criteria that account for performance -- including financial performance -- in times of challenge or adversity. Here is an excerpt.
FREDERICK PETERS is not the type of man you would expect to have financial problems. He owns Warburg Realty Partners, which sells some of the most expensive apartments in Manhattan to people with unimaginable wealth.
Mr. Peters was born into this world, though you wouldn't guess that, either, at first glance. Dressed in a black shirt and black pants, with close-cropped hair gone thin in spots, he looks like an avant-garde musician, not a business owner and certainly not a descendant of a trifecta of banking families -- Warburg, Rothschild and Schiff. Had I not been told, I would have never guessed that a few months before our meeting in March 2009 he had been forced to make decisions under extreme pressure to keep his firm afloat. 
''My business pretty much ran into a wall on Lehman Brothers Day,'' he told me.
That day -- Sept. 15, 2008 -- was when the once-great trading house ceased to exist. While it shocked the global financial system, the firm's collapse had a more personal effect for Mr. Peters. It caused his otherwise wealthy, savvy clientele to immediately think they were broke when they were far from it.
In November 2008, Mr. Peters said he was feeling anxious when he went into a meeting with his board. Instead of talking about the prospects for a recovery in the coming year, the chief financial officer ran through doomsday scenarios: What would happen if the business went down 30, 35, or 40 percent? When he heard the answers, Mr. Peters was shocked not only by how much he could lose but also by how quickly he could lose it.
''I told my C.F.O., 'Let's see where we are at the end of the first quarter,' '' he said. ''A week later, he came to me and said, 'I know you don't want to have this conversation, but I don't think we can wait that long.' ''
From his headquarters on the Upper East Side, Mr. Peters had added four more locations to become a dominant player in the city's luxury real estate market. Making the hard choices his C.F.O. demanded -- namely closing an office in Harlem -- was too much for him to bear. ''I needed to think about it,'' he recalled. ''I went out for a walk.''
What Mr. Peters struggled with was not entirely a financial decision. He was not going to be living on the street if his business failed. He was wrestling with something that inhibited clear thinking much more -- and causes people across a range of professions to choke under pressure. ''The biggest problem for me was pride,'' he admitted.
Most people associate clutch performances with a triumphant sports moment: the home run that wins the game or the basket at the buzzer. But each of these contains an element of luck, and clutch is not luck. Being clutch is the precisely executed series of plays down the football field, not the Hail Mary pass. It is also something that goes far beyond the world of sport, to business, politics, war, any area where a person's individual actions under pressure can mean the difference between success and failure. And while it has a mental component, it is not a mystical ability. Being clutch is the ability to do what you can do under normal conditions under extreme pressure.
Mr. Peters had run his business well in the 30 years he had owned Warburg Realty. Now through no fault of his own he found himself in a financial crisis that threatened the future of his firm. This was the definition of a clutch situation. Over the next few months, he responded well because his actions were guided by the five traits of people who are great under pressure: focus, discipline, adaptability, being present and a mix of entrepreneurial desire and fear of losing his business. He also avoided the three traps that cause most people to choke: he took responsibility for what needed to be done, he did not overthink the situation nor grow overconfident when his business stabilized. Yet none of this was preordained on that day in November.
During his walk around some of the nicest streets in New York, Mr. Peters thought his way past his reservations. It was then that he realized he could not only close the Harlem office but also the one in the West Village. ''I realized I could retain all of my income production with fewer people and less space,'' he said.
Mr. Peters's decision may not seem remarkable -- cutting costs is an obvious way to save money -- but it was, because so many people cannot think that clearly under pressure. Small-business owners and consumers saddled with debt showed the same inability to recognize their problems in the recession, let alone deal with them. They looked for ways to hang on to what they ''owned'' when in reality they were barely renting all of those flat-screen televisions, luxury cars and condos in warm locales. They should have cut, not tried to renegotiate.
Mr. Peters had been primed for what he did by a lunch with Alec Haverstick II. The two men had been friends since the third grade, but they happened to get together just as the stock market was falling and Mr. Peters had begun to worry. Mr. Haverstick had recently been a co-founder of Boxwood Strategic Advisers, a firm that focused on clients' debt more than their assets. And he began to counsel Mr. Peters on an Old World notion of discipline and thrift as the only way to extricate himself from a tough financial situation.
''This is about structuring and restructuring,'' Mr. Haverstick told me. ''It's about, how do I pay my bills? Those who capitulate early, seek help and get out early live to fight another day.''
While said in the heat of the Great Recession, it was something anyone struggling under the weight of personal expenses can benefit from.
Still, the public reaction to wealthy people who found themselves in financial straits during the recession was some combination of anger, scorn and mockery. But that missed Mr. Haverstick's point: In a recession unlike one that anyone had lived through, people who were overleveraged needed to act quickly. In Mr. Peters's case, he said his apartment and business were the only things sacrosanct, and he was willing to do what needed to be done with the rest of his assets.
Under financial pressure, most people do not and cannot think dispassionately until it is too late. They choke because they wait too long to sell, thinking their situation will improve. When it does not, they have burned through their reserve funds and are still going to lose what they were struggling to keep. Mr. Haverstick provided a tool that could take the passion out of financial decision-making. His rule was that when you have less than 12 months of cash left to cover your debt payments, you need to start selling assets. His prescription applied to anyone because the advice was not based on having a lot of money so much as being smart with the money you have left.
Mr. Peters knew there was nothing he could do about the magnitude of the financial crisis. He could only control the decisions he made, and he knew they would be crucial ones. So he listened to Mr. Haverstick and began to restructure his business. He managed to do this before the real estate crisis deepened, but he couldn't have known that. What mattered was his reaction under pressure: he focused on the problem. This is the first step for anyone who wants to be clutch regardless of the situation.
[COPYRIGHT] Paul Sullivan, 2010

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frederick Peters, right, and his friend and financial adviser, Alec Haverstick II. When the financial crisis threatened his business, Mr. Peters survived by avoiding distractions and focusing on the problem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



86 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Lower Fees For 529 Plan

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SARANOW SCHULTZ

 BODY:
Updated Aug. 31, 2010
According to an e-mail sent to account holders, New York has cut the fees on its 529 College Savings Direct Plan in half.
The fees for each portfolio are now 0.25 percent, down from 0.49 percent. Industry experts said the drop brings the fees for what they called the largest direct-sold plan in the country down to the lower-end of the fee spectrum compared with other states, and more in line with its $8 billion size. The earlier rate, they said, was closer to the national average, which various experts estimated to be 0.4 percent to 0.6 percent.
In the e-mail, New York attributed the drop to ''technological advances and the continued growth of the plan.'' In an e-mail to Bucks, Brenda F. Smith, director of New York State College Savings Program, said, ''The fees were reduced as a result of economies of scale realized by the plan's long-term asset growth, low cost investment options, and operating efficiencies generated from improvements in technology and client service.'' 
Why such a generous cut? Well, the fee cut happens to come at the precise moment that New York's seven-year contract with the plan manager, Upromise, had been set to expire. It expires Sept. 1, though 529 experts said it was their understanding that the state had yet to send out requests for proposals from competing fund managers.Andrea Feirstein, managing member of AKF Consulting Group, a 529 consultant, said she suspected that the request was delayed in exchange for a reduction in fees. The New York plan reports the two main types of fees associated with 529 accounts -- the fees on the underlying mutual and other funds and an overarching administrative fee -- together in one number. Ms. Feirstein estimated that the cost of the Vanguard funds in the 529 plans were about 7 to 10 basis points (hundreths of a percentage point), while the remainder was the UPromise management fee.
''I think frankly the fees were not competitive at 49 basis points. New York was overpriced compared to the rest of the market,'' she said. ''I think they saw an opportunity to lower the fees in advance of the election and pass along some reduced costs to consumers. There had to be economies of scale that were reached a long time ago.''
Joe Hurley, the founder of Savingforcollege.com, said the fee cut brought the New York plan more in line with Fidelity's lowest-fee 529 options. He added that he still expected the state to issue the request for proposals. Ms. Smith of the New York plan confirmed the program was preparing the request for proposals to be released shortly and until a new long-term contract was awarded, Upromise would manage the plan.
According to a spokeswoman from Vanguard, the latest fee drop marks the fifth time in five years that expenses have been lowered for the plan's investors. When the partnership between New York, Vanguard and Upromise began in 2003, the annual management fee for the plan was 0.6 percent, she said.
With a 529 direct savings plan, parents buy the plan directly, without the help of a financial adviser (there is a different broker-sold 529 plan in New York, and the fees for that one are not falling at the moment).
The savings plans work a bit like a 401(k) or other defined-contribution retirement plan in that parents put money in, hope the investments do well and then use the money in the account to cover college costs. All gains come out free of taxes, as long as you use them for qualified educational expenses.
This is in contrast to 529 prepaid plans, which work more like traditional pension or defined-benefit plans. Parents put money in and then are guaranteed coverage for some amount of tuition in the future (no matter how much it has gone up).
Any United States citizen can sign up for the New York plan and use the money for any eligible college or university. Only New York State taxpayers, however, get a state income tax deduction for investments they make each year.
What is your preferred 529 plan and why? Or do you avoid them altogether?
Hat tip to Ari Weinberg for alerting us to this move before we'd seen it ourselves.
Update: Added in comments from Brenda F. Smith, director of New York State College Savings Program.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); CONTRACT AWARDS (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (66%)

COMPANY: UPROMISE INVESTMENTS INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



87 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Europe Takes a Big Step To Avert Economic Crises

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER; Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt and Matthew Saltmarsh from Paris.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS
WITH the creation of a clutch of new financial watchdog agencies, the European Union this week took its biggest step yet to prevent a recurrence of the economic crises that have thrown the future of the euro into question.
But the overhaul will not eliminate bickering among countries over how to run their economies, and it could take time for some of the more far-reaching powers -- like the imposition of temporary bans on harmful financial products -- to gain acceptance. 
The new agencies also could influence policy in a range of areas that concern European citizens, by issuing warnings against products like dubious life insurance policies, and even banning them in extreme cases.
The rules, which were given preliminary approval Thursday by European diplomats and lawmakers, establish three agencies to monitor banks, insurance companies and trading on markets starting next year.
The rules also create a group attached to the European Central Bank called the European Systemic Risk Board. It would watch for asset bubbles and other dangers to the financial system.
The rules still must win the formal approval of European government ministers and the European Parliament. European Union officials expect those decisions to be made this month.
The bloc must also agree on rules governing hedge funds and short-selling, and on whether to establish European-based credit rating agencies to counter the dominance of American companies.
The banking agency would be based in London, the market trading watchdog would be in Paris and the insurance regulator in Frankfurt.
Agreeing on London as the base for the banking agency was a significant factor in support for the system from Britain, where the government has long been prickly about European Union regulation of its financial sector.
''Subject to final confirmation by ministers next week, this is a very good outcome for the U.K.,'' the British Treasury said. Each agency is likely to have a staff of 50 to 70 officials at first, growing to 90 to 110 after about three years, although that still would make each smaller than many national agencies.
In a crisis similar to the one that struck two years ago, the banking agency would have authority to instruct the national supervisors to share information and reach common positions. Agencies could also make binding decisions when arbitrating disputes involving national supervisors who cannot agree on how to regulate a bank that does business across European borders.
But governments could contest such decisions by saying that they violate their fiscal sovereignty, for example, by forcing them to raise taxes to bail out banks.Such disputes ultimately would be resolved in meetings of economy and finance ministers -- although officials at the European Commission, which helped draft the rules, said they expected such showdowns in exceptional circumstances only.
In future crises concerning market trading practices, the Paris-based agency could order temporary bans on products or transactions it deemed potentially dangerous to the bloc's economy and consumers.
But the agency probably would not have jurisdiction over products unless they already were regulated -- potentially leaving a gap. European officials are racing to pass additional legislation on short-selling to ensure that the practice is covered by the new system and to prevent a recurrence of events in May, when Germany unilaterally banned one form of short-selling.
Who will run the three agencies must still be determined before they start work on Jan. 1. But a decision was made Thursday to make the first leader of the European Systemic Risk Board the president of the European Central Bank, now Jean-Claude Trichet of France.
A member of the bank's executive board, Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, said Friday that the Central Bank supported the creation of the board. But he warned that central banks would have to guard their independence as they became more involved in bank supervision. For example, the bank might recommend politically unpopular restrictions on credit to prevent excess borrowing.
''Being party to such recommendations will expose the central bank to political pressures,'' Mr. Gonzalez-Paramo told an audience in Cyprus. ''The conduct of monetary policy in pursuit of price stability must be insulated from such pressures.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet will head a new board on systemic risk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BORIS ROESSLER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); EURO (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (75%); LIFE INSURANCE (74%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); BANK FAILURES (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); CREDIT BUREAUS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



88 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Big Reopening in a Troubled Economy

BYLINE: By JIM CARTY

 BODY:
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -- The original 1920s financing plan for the University of Michigan's now-iconic football stadium relied on a bond issue that allowed each bondholder to purchase two season tickets. A university history noted that it was assumed ''a new stadium would quickly pay for itself.''
That assumption was derailed by the onset of the Great Depression, and Michigan did not retire the last of the stadium bonds until 1951, five years beyond the projected redemption date. 
More than 80 years later, a $226 million stadium expansion approved by the university's regents in June 2007 seemed equally ill-timed, as construction coincided with the bankruptcies of the Detroit auto giants General Motors and Chrysler and an economic downturn that left Michigan struggling with the nation's highest unemployment rate.
Yet Michigan officials say that the renovation has succeeded in its goal of being self-financing.
''It's an incredible statement by our fans, given the economic conditions in the state,'' said Bill Martin, who initiated the project as Michigan's athletic director and will retire Saturday from a consulting role with the university.
The stadium will be a showcase attraction Saturday when the Wolverines play the University of Connecticut in a football season opener.
Joe Parker, the senior associate athletic director in charge of the project, said that he had originally hoped to have every suite and seat leased a year before the project's completion. Instead, 65 of 81 suites and about 90 percent of 2,952 premium seats have been leased for the full season in anticipation of Saturday's opener, with prices ranging from $55,000 to $85,000 annually for the suites and $1,500 to $4,000 annually for a premium seat, plus the ticket cost.
The university has also received about $32 million in donation commitments for naming rights associated with the expansion.
Parker said the university has succeeded in its goal of financing a wide-ranging stadium modernization without requiring a price increase or a surcharge for existing season-ticket holders. The new seating will generate about $12 million in revenue this season, Parker said, more than enough to cover the $9 million debt services for the renovation and expansion. The suites and preferred seating are expected to generate more than $14 million annually when they are sold out.
Parker said ''seven or eight'' individuals or businesses who originally committed to leasing suites backed out because of the recession.
''Obviously the world was a much different place'' when the project was approved, Parker said. ''In September of 2008, everything changed, not just in Michigan, but the whole country. There was a six- to eight-month period where it did feel very unsettling.''
''But,'' he added, ''the response has been amazing.''
Fans in suites or premium seating will be surrounded by the chrome, glass, rich wood paneling and high-definition big-screen televisions that are now standard for such projects, with added artistic elements showcasing Michigan's athletics history. They will also have their own private elevator service and parking area, but alcohol remains banned from the stadium -- including the suites -- because of the university's policy that it would be inconsistent with its educational mission.
Parker said that the individuals or businesses that canceled their commitment to buy a suite have still purchased some level of premium seating.
Yet while Dow Chemical, DTE Energy and BorgWarner have all leased suites, the Detroit automakers and banks -- two areas particularly hard hit by the recession -- are conspicuous in their absence.
Andrew Zimbalist, an economics professor at Smith College and author of ''Unpaid Professionals: Commercialization and Conflict in Big-Time College Sports,'' said Michigan's current economic and athletic uncertainty should remain a concern.
''Instead of the numbers going up, the numbers might go down,'' Zimbalist said. ''I think they are skating on thin ice. And there's always the question about how Michigan is going to perform on the field. This year, I believe, Michigan is not projected to have a particularly strong team in the Big Ten.''
Zimbalist also questioned whether the economic picture is quite as rosy as Michigan has painted it. New and expanded stadiums typically have increased expenses beyond debt service, he said, and selling suites and premium seating in an economic downturn may include ancillary discounts such as free food or parking. (Parker said Michigan is not offering such discounts.)
Still, Zimbalist predicted the renovation will ultimately be seen as a success, especially given it is paying for much-needed upgrades and modernization to the rest of the stadium.
''Michigan football is a spectacular brand,'' he said. ''They've sold out every game for roughly 20 years. They had reason to think they could flex their muscles a little bit and they needed to do some renovations on the stadium anyway because it wasn't compliant with the Americans With Disabilities Act. They simply hadn't modernized it for some time.
''There were a number of choices and they went for the most aggressive choice. It's likely to pay off because of the strength of the brand. It's not likely to pay off as handsomely as they hoped and projected, but that's not unusual.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Renovations at the University of Michigan's stadium cost $226 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D1)
 Leather seats will be available to those holding suite-level tickets at the renovated Michigan Stadium, which opens Saturday when the Wolverines play Connecticut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC SEALS/DETROIT FREE PRESS) (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); APPROVALS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



89 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Service Sector Expands for 8th Month

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The service sector, America's predominant job generator, expanded for the eighth consecutive month in August although the pace of growth slowed, according to a trade group report released Friday. 
The report provided another sign that the recovery from the recession has slowed, making it difficult for employers to add back the millions of jobs lost during the downturn. The service sector accounts for about 80 percent of the nation's jobs.
''Economic growth remains fragile,'' said Paul Ashworth, an economist at Capital Economics.
The Institute for Supply Management said its service-sector index fell to 51.5 last month from 54.3 in July. Economists had expected a higher reading of 53.5. The August reading is the lowest since January.
Levels above 50 signal growth. The index bottomed at 37.2 in November 2008.
The index shows service company activity has expanded every month this year, and in 10 of the last 12 months. But the expansion has not been as fast as in the much smaller manufacturing sector. Companies that supply services, which include hospitals, shops and banks, depend more on spending by American consumers.
Shoppers have kept a tight lid on spending as unemployment remains high, hitting 9.6 percent in August, and hiring has been slow because of uncertainty about the strength of the global economy.
Retailers are still counting on discounts to pull in shoppers. The Target Corporation, the discount retail chain, said Thursday that a crucial sales measure rose modestly in August, a month typically busy with back-to-school shoppers, but the gain was not as steep as the decline during the same period a year ago.
Friday's report on the service sector was consistent with a forecast of economic growth of less than 2 percent in the second half of the year, an analyst at HSBC Securities, Ryan Wang, said.
The outlook for the coming months is murky. The survey's gauge of future business, new orders, slowed in August to the weakest pace this year.
A measure of managers' willingness to hire also shrank in August, even though the government said in a separate report that service companies added 67,000 jobs last month.
The report is skewed to bigger corporations. The trade group surveys about 350 companies every month.
Of the 18 different industries the trade group studies every month, half reported growth in August, and half shrank.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers in New York. Retailers are still counting on discounts to pull in reluctant consumers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (67%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (82%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (71%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (82%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



90 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Of Janitors And Kings

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Martha Escobar is staring into the cold, dark, unforgiving eyes of destitution.
Ms. Escobar is one of 16 janitors who were laid off from their jobs at a luxury complex in Los Angeles that houses some of the wealthiest tenants imaginable. JPMorgan Asset Management, a unit of the vast JPMorgan Chase empire, manages an intricate investment web that owns the buildings. The layoffs were ordered by a maintenance contractor, ABM Industries.
The Century Plaza Towers, which is part of the complex, crows on its Web site that it has ''one of the most prestigious tenant rosters in the country, which includes some of America's most prominent business leaders.'' The janitors were required to keep things pristine for those prominent business leaders, who hardly ever noticed them. 
They also did the mopping and scrubbing at 2000 Avenue of the Stars, which also is part of the complex and is home to an array of glittering businesses, including the Creative Artists Agency, an entertainment and sports powerhouse. The janitors were let go a few weeks ago, and, given the current job market, they have not been able to do much since then but suffer with anxiety.
Ms. Escobar is 41 years old and has two daughters, 14 and 10. She told me, through an interpreter, that she had enough money to pay September's rent but not October's. She has no savings. School is about to start, but she has no idea how she will pay for her girls' uniforms.
''I have not been able to find another job,'' she said.
What's different about these layoffs is that the janitors are not going quietly. They have been vigorously protesting the callousness of their treatment -- the way the rich people who employed them for the munificent sum of $13.50 an hour found it so easy to dump them on the scrap heap with the rest of America's unemployed millions.
The janitors have marched and fasted outside the buildings they once cleaned. And Ms. Escobar and another laid-off janitor, Elba Polanco, were brought to New York City last week by the Service Employees International Union, which represents them, to bring their plight to the attention of Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase. Mr. Dimon has made a fabulous living by, among other things, borrowing enormous sums of money to buy companies and then hurling people out of work.
In the real world of America's increasingly two-tiered society, you have to laugh at the idea of these janitors trying to get the ear of Jamie Dimon, who counts his wealth by the hundreds of millions. He is royalty, and they are from the peasant class. Mr. Dimon's universe is orders of magnitude different from the one that Martha Escobar is scrambling around in. He talks to the Geithners and Bernankes and Larry Summerses of the world. The paycheck Ms. Escobar used to get wouldn't cover Jamie Dimon's dinner tab.
While Ms. Escobar and her former co-workers are being scorched by the flames of unemployment, JPMorgan Chase's second-quarter profit this year -- profit, mind you -- was $4.8 billion. (It got some help in the dark days of 2008 in the form of a $25 billion bailout from the federal government, but that has all been paid back.)
Ms. Escobar and Ms. Polanco spent Thursday trying to secure an audience with Mr. Dimon. They wanted to ask if there was any chance that they and at least some of their former co-workers could be rehired. Members of the clergy and a number of other supporters were with them when they showed up at the JPMorgan Chase headquarters at 270 Park Ave.
The palace guards asked if they had an appointment. They knew very well that an appointment was an impossibility. Ms. Escobar and Ms. Polanco were janitors. They were told to go away. They asked if they could leave some reading material for Mr. Dimon. Absolutely, the guards said. Leave whatever you'd like.
I called JPMorgan Chase to ask why the janitors had been fired and if the company was open to negotiations that could result in rehires. The response was cold, cold, cold. A spokesperson said JPMorgan Chase has nothing to do with the matter. ''It's a dispute between a vendor and its employees,'' he said.
When I asked if he had any response to the protests, or the plight of the workers, or their effort to get their jobs back, he said, ''The comments I gave you pretty much are a response.''
ABM Industries tried mightily not to respond at all, but when pressed, issued a statement through a public relations firm, Kekst and Company, saying discussions have been held with union officials regarding the workers. The company would not say if any could be rehired or why they were fired in the first place.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WEB SITES (56%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); ABM INDUSTRIES INC (57%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); ABM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS561720 JANITORIAL SERVICES (57%); SIC7349 BUILDING CLEANING & MAINTENANCE SERVICES, NEC (57%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (56%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



91 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Alaska Winner, Lover of Privacy, Loses His Own

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
FAIRBANKS, Alaska -- The man with the best chance of becoming the next senator from Alaska lives at the end of a long gravel road here at the edge of the continent. Tribulation Trail is the name of his street. Signs warn against trespassing. A dog's baritone bark rattles the aspens when car wheels, unexpected, churn the driveway.
Could a photographer come by for a portrait?
''You aren't coming to my house,'' said Joe Miller. 
A moment later, he laughed. But he still said no.
Mr. Miller, 43, whose stunning defeat of Senator Lisa Murkowski in Alaska's Republican primary makes him the favorite to win her seat in this heavily Republican state, has devoted much of his life to institutions and isolation.
He comes across as a self-confident iconoclast but wraps his message in the Constitution, and his resume contains elements of conformity: West Point. Yale Law School. State magistrate. Federal magistrate.
Still, until recently he was largely unknown in this state.
He has lived in Fairbanks for just 8 years, and in Alaska for 16. For all the attention paid to the passion of his conservative supporters and to the endorsements of Sarah Palin, Mike Huckabee and Tea Party activists, Mr. Miller needed only 53,000 votes to win the Senate primary. (The primary ballot also included a measure requiring parental notification for abortions for children under 18, which passed with 85,000 votes.) Only 32 percent of the state's registered voters cast ballots in the primary, on Aug. 24.
Even as Mr. Miller vows to drastically scale back the size and spending of the federal government, he has spent much of his life in some form of government employment or service. The military helped educate him. At one point in 2002, he worked simultaneously as an acting state district judge and a part-time federal magistrate.
For seven years, until last September, he worked part time as a salaried assistant attorney for the Fairbanks North Star Borough, roughly equivalent to a county government. One of his biggest cases involved successfully extracting higher tax revenues from the companies that own the Trans-Alaska Pipeline.
''I would certainly regard the work I did as successful with the Trans-Alaska Pipeline cases,'' Mr. Miller said in an interview at his law office here.
His work with the borough allowed him to complete a master's degree in economics from the University of Alaska. ''We paid his tuition,'' said Rene Broker, the borough attorney who first hired him and later accepted his resignation.
He worked 20 hours a week for the borough, enough to receive health care benefits for his family of 10, though he drew the bulk of his income from his private practice.
Because Mr. Miller is married and has eight children, his family is eligible to receive 10 dividend checks each year from the Alaska Permanent Fund, an account that pays dividends from state oil revenues to residents of Alaska. The amount changes yearly and is often between $1,000 and $2,000. In 2008, the last full year Ms. Palin was governor, she pushed through a one-time increase to $3,269. That would have meant more than $32,000 for Mr. Miller's family.
''It's not coming from taxpayers,'' said Randy DeSoto, a spokesman for Mr. Miller who graduated in the same class at West Point. ''It's coming from the resources.''
Mr. Miller said he spent about $100,000 of his own money on his Senate campaign.
''I have no money from family,'' he said. ''It's all been self-earned.''
Mr. Miller resigned from the borough on Sept. 1, 2009, citing what he said in a letter to Ms. Broker were differences of opinion over legal matters. Ms. Broker would not comment on what she said was a personnel matter. Mr. Miller would not elaborate. He does not cite his seven years working there in his campaign biography.
Mr. Miller's private practice often handles cases involving insurance claims made by individuals, according to Ward Merdes, a lawyer who worked on several cases with Mr. Miller.
''David and Goliath stuff,'' Mr. Merdes said. ''We represented little guys against big guys.''
Mr. Miller, who grew up in Kansas, said that his father had been a minister and that his parents ran a bookstore. He graduated with honors from West Point, where an entry next to his senior yearbook photograph notes that he was active in several clubs, including Hunting and Fishing, Survival Games and Officer Christian Fellowship.
He served in the Persian Gulf war and received a Bronze Star for ''selfless actions'' during combat duty. In 1994, he moved to Alaska while still completing his final year at Yale Law School.
He had always been enamored with the state.
''It's the last frontier, it's wide open spaces -- not a heck of a lot of people, not a heck of a lot of development,'' he said. ''It was the challenge of it. It was the love of the outdoors.''
He initially worked for a private law firm in Anchorage, then, in 1998, became a state magistrate in the little village of Tok. After four years, his family moved 200 miles northwest to Fairbanks, where Mr. Miller at first juggled the acting state district judge position and that of a part-time federal magistrate. He soon got the borough job and opened a private practice.
In 2004, two years after moving to Fairbanks, he challenged the city's lone Democrat in the State Legislature, David Guttenberg. Mr. Miller lost, 52 to 48 percent.
''He's a carpetbagger,'' Mr. Guttenberg said. ''He moved into my district to run against me because I was the only Democrat in Fairbanks.''
In 2008, Mr. Miller, by then a regional Republican leader, led a failed effort to oust the state party chairman, Randy Ruedrich. Several years earlier, Ms. Palin had exposed ethical violations committed by Mr. Ruedrich while they had both served on the state's Oil and Gas Conservation Commission.
Mr. Miller said that he decided this April to run for the Senate and that he did not consult Ms. Palin or her husband, Todd, a friend, beforehand.
Mr. Miller has faced repeated questions over how he will square his views on federal spending if he becomes a senator from a state that depends on government for one-third of its economy. He argues that ending restrictive federal regulation will free Alaska to reap more from its natural resources ''in an environmentally responsible way.''
''Anybody who thinks that the only way this state can progress is from dependency on the federal government is not really looking at reality,'' he said. ''Now to suggest it happens all at once, you know, overnight it happens, absolutely not. It's a pragmatic approach.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about Joe Miller, who pulled off a surprise victory over Senator Lisa Murkowski in Alaska's Republican primary, described incorrectly a ballot initiative that passed with 85,000 votes. The measure requires parental notification -- not parental consent -- for abortions for children under 18.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joe Miller, who defeated Senator Lisa Murkowski in the Republican primary, at his Fairbanks law office with his wife, Kathleen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES MASON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MAGISTRATES (89%); LAWYERS (87%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSERVATISM (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); TUITION FEES (67%); DIVIDENDS (66%); COUNTIES (65%); RESIGNATIONS (63%); JUDGES (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (73%); SARAH PALIN (59%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (90%) ALASKA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



92 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: For Democrats, Economy Fuels Election Fears

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Democrats are entering the fall sprint to the midterm elections lacking a unifying message to address the lackluster economy, scrambling to come up with further job-creating remedies and out of time to show substantial results before voters go to the polls.
The monthly jobs report on Friday, while better than economists had expected, did nothing to improve the deteriorating political climate for Democrats a little more than eight weeks before Election Day.
President Obama, after a week consumed by foreign policy issues, will begin focusing publicly on the economy next week and on Wednesday plans to propose modest additional tax breaks, temporary and aimed at small business to promote hiring. But it is not clear that he has the votes or the time in Congress to pass them, with Republicans eager to deny Democrats any victories and endangered Democrats eager to get home within three to four weeks to campaign.
Democrats' sense of vulnerability has increased since Congress broke for August, after a month of reports tracking weakness in both the economy and their polls. One result is that they now split more deeply than ever on the issue that in recent elections had been a rallying cry: ending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of taxpayers. Democratic leaders are imploring Mr. Obama to come off the sidelines and lead the fight. 
On the campaign trail, many Democrats are going their own ways as they face the prospect that persistently high unemployment could cost them control of the House and perhaps the Senate. Many are embracing the stimulus package enacted soon after Mr. Obama took office; others run away from it. Some distance themselves from Mr. Obama and his economic team; most blame Republicans.
Democrats' campaign message mostly is a Babel of individual voices. With the national winds blowing ever stronger against the party in power, threatened Democrats are tailoring their message to their particular district or state -- with party leaders' encouragement.
Representative Tom Perriello, an underdog for re-election in Virginia, campaigned this week in a county where he pointed to new water lines and broadband service as the benefits of the stimulus, which helped attract Microsoft to invest in the tobacco region. But he also has called for Mr. Obama's Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, to go.
''If it's Perriello versus Hurt, I'll win,'' Mr. Perriello said, referring to his Republican challenger, State Senator Robert Hurt. ''If it's a referendum on the president, it's a tougher race.''
Mr. Perriello could not immediately answer when asked what the national Democratic message is. ''I suppose the pause there may be telling,'' he said.
''But if there is one theme,'' he added, echoing a metaphor Mr. Obama likes to use, ''it's that the other side drove the economy into the ditch and they haven't changed their driving habits at all. And we've worked really hard to get us out of the ditch.''
In Arizona, Representative Gabrielle Giffords emphasizes her work for tougher border controls and support for the stimulus money that saved the jobs of local teachers and public-safety workers. Like many Democrats, her campaign depicts her Republican opponent, Jesse Kelly, as an extremist conservative for his views on Medicare, taxes and other issues.
''We're running our own race,'' said Rodd McLeod, the campaign manager for Ms. Giffords.
Representative Walt Minnick, Democrat of Idaho, boasts at home that he opposed the stimulus package and Mr. Obama's health care overhaul. His campaign manager, John Foster, said Mr. Minnick never expected an easy race: ''Obama was unpopular in Idaho in 2008, so we've never known anything else.''
Mr. Obama spoke Thursday with the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, to coordinate on proposals Democrats can unite around quickly. Yet Mr. Obama and Mr. Reid have not been able to overcome Republican opposition to a package of tax cuts and lending assistance for small businesses that Mr. Obama proposed early this year.
Among the ideas favored within the administration are tax incentives for clean energy jobs and credits for employers who increase their work forces. The president and his team have ruled out a broad-based payroll tax holiday to promote hiring, officials say.
But they are still considering whether to propose making permanent a tax credit for businesses' research and development; for three decades the costly credit has been repeatedly renewed rather than made permanent so the revenue loss does not show up in deficit projections.
Democrats say the list of stimulus ideas is mostly tax cuts because spending proposals would have no chance of Republican support. Yet Republicans have opposed Democrats' tax cutting ideas as well, so some Democrats argue that the new ideas could further demoralize party liberals, who want new spending for job-creating public works.
Administration and Congressional Democrats are considering proposing perhaps $35 billion in additional tax breaks for small businesses.
That sum is roughly the amount that would be saved in 2011 if the Bush income tax rates for upper-income people -- couples with more than $250,000 in taxable income and individuals with more than $200,000 -- revert to the higher, pre-2001 levels next year, as the tax laws require.
Democrats say such a package would let them counter Republicans' argument that successful small businesses would be hurt by letting the top Bush tax rates expire. And, Democrats add, their alternative tax cuts would be ones that economists consider more likely to lift the economy.
What is really needed, they say, is for Mr. Obama to get more engaged in the fight to end the tax cuts for the wealthy. Yet the combination of a weakened economy and weaker candidates has scrambled the strategy planning.
Before August, Democrats generally were united in opposing any extension for the top rates and looked forward to a pre-election battle with Republicans. The chief debate has been over whether to make the middle-class tax rates permanent or to extend them for a year given the revenue loss of about $3 trillion over a decade.
Now Democrats are weighing whether they may have to accept a one-year extension of the tax rates for the wealthy. More Democratic lawmakers now fear attacks from Republicans, who argue that no one should pay higher taxes, certainly not before the economy recovers fully.
Democrats assume that Senate Republicans will block any extension that does not include the top rates. In that event, Democrats are ready with their attack lines.
As Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the chairman of the House Democrats' campaign committee, put it, ''They're holding tax relief for 98 percent of the American people hostage to permanent tax cuts for the top 2 percent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Tom Perriello, right, a Democrat, is considered an underdog for re-election in a conservative Virginia district. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE HELBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); REFERENDUMS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); BROADBAND (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%); ROBERT HURT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



93 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: To Put More Blacks in the Pipeline, Own the Pipeline

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Richard Williams strolled across the grounds of the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center on Wednesday afternoon. Ever the recognizable figure, he was greeted by men and women, young and old. Some just wanted to say hello, others asked to have their picture taken with him, and others simply wanted to offer his daughters good luck.
Richard Williams is an intriguing sports figure, and the story of how his daughters Venus and Serena became defining presences in women's tennis continues to be one of the great stories in contemporary American sports. 
Increasingly, the question has been raised: Why, after all these years, hasn't another African-American tennis star been identified and developed?
Tennis has had well-documented difficulties in establishing and maintaining an African-American presence in its championship pipeline. Critics point out that the cost of the journey is exorbitant. But Williams said the problem went beyond money.
''You can only be good if you have a system behind you and not ahead of you, blocking you from getting there,'' he said. ''Institutions that could help blacks refuse. I think they drive blacks away from tennis.''
He said there would not be a significant black presence in tennis until African-Americans built and ran their own tennis academies. The solution, he said, is self-sufficiency. His vision is to build an academy, perhaps in Texas, that would house a resort and a school.
''If you can't establish your own, this system has shown you that it is not going to accept you in their house,'' he said. ''If I had black people who wanted to work with me and we independently could set up something, we could create black tennis players. Other than that, it'll never happen.''
The idea of establishing a well-financed African-American tennis academy is overdue. The concept will certainly elicit cries of resegregation and laments of ''I thought we were beyond this.'' But when you look at it, you realize we're really not.
''It's not that they dislike you,'' Williams said. ''They just don't want another Venus or Serena showing up.''
Chris Widmaier, the managing director of corporate communications for the United States Tennis Association, disagreed. ''We believe the U.S.T.A. has built a system that strives for inclusion at every economic background,'' he said. ''Our goal is to support elite players; there are no barriers to entry into those sports.''
Widmaier pointed to initiatives to take tennis instruction to underserved populations, like ones led by Patrick McEnroe, the association's general manager of player development. ''Black, white, purple, yellow, we want to identify and support elite players,'' Widmaier said.
As for Richard Williams's contention that African-Americans must nurture their own champions, Widmaier said: ''He raises complex issues. I'm not a cultural sociologist. I just know that would not be our approach.''
While the introduction of black firsts led to an explosion of talented players in other sports, the championship gap between Althea Gibson's last title in a major in 1958 and the Williams sisters is enormous, and there has not been a male African-American Grand Slam champion since Arthur Ashein 1975. Clearly there needs to be another model.
African-Americans have been playing tennis since the last part of the 19th century, not long after the modern game originated. They had their own clubs and their own champions, Gibson among them. These clubs were a response to a legacy of racism -- African-Americans being denied access to exclusive clubs, tournaments and training.
Beyond money, Williams says the tennis environment -- what he calls the system -- has not been welcoming to African-Americans. He cites his experiences with his daughters.
''I've seen a lot of black kids come up to me and say, 'I would never want to play tennis after what I see them say to you, Mr. Williams,' '' Williams said. ''I've seen black girls that quit, who wouldn't play tennis for fear of what would happen to them.''
Perhaps, it was suggested, Williams suffered from being a pioneer, and the next black star would have an easier time. He doesn't think so. The resistance is deeply rooted, he said.
''When they tried to pick on me and Venus and Serena, they weren't picking at them, in all reality,'' Williams said. ''They were picking at other blacks, saying, 'This is what's going to happen to you if you come here, so keep your butts away.' They aren't doing this to hurt us, they do it to discourage little black girls and black boys so they won't take over tennis like they did football and basketball and baseball.''
There is an abundance of talent throughout the United States just waiting to be developed. Their families may not have hundreds of thousands of dollars to invest in the process, but Richard Williams demonstrated that you don't need hundreds of thousands of dollars.
''I believe girls and boys can be better than Venus and Serena,'' Williams said. ''I really believe that with all my heart.''
What you need is care, courage, dedication and love.
Those qualities, more often than not, are homegrown.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Williams advocates tennis academies owned and run by African-Americans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (93%); TENNIS (93%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

PERSON: VENUS WILLIAMS (79%); SERENA WILLIAMS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



94 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: GROWTH IN JOBS BEATS ESTIMATES, EASING CONCERNS

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH; Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Christine Hauser contributed reporting.

 BODY:
American businesses added more jobs in the last three months than originally estimated, calming fears of a double-dip recession. Yet the pace of growth signaled that the wheels of the economic recovery were still spinning in place.
The private sector added 67,000 jobs in August, with some of the strongest gains in health care, food service and temporary help, according to the Labor Department. That was higher than consensus forecasts, and the government upwardly revised its numbers for June and July, suggesting that job creation was slightly stronger over the summer than originally reported.
But the continuing wind-down of the 2010 Census, as well as state and local government layoffs, led to an overall loss of 54,000 jobs in August.
With businesses adding about half the number of positions needed simply to accommodate population growth -- much less dent the ranks of the jobless -- the unemployment rate ticked up to 9.6 percent, from 9.5 percent. 
''The overall picture is one where the labor market is still kind of treading water,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR Inc. ''It's better than sinking, but it's certainly not surging ahead.''
The August numbers, which pushed up stock gauges on Friday, are likely to do little to assuage political pressure on the Obama administration in the run-up to the midterm elections.
Speaking from the White House Rose Garden on Friday morning, President Obama called the latest jobs report ''positive news,'' but said he would be unveiling ''a broader package of ideas next week'' to shore up the flagging economy, although he declined to give specifics. The president once again urged Congress to pass a stalled bill that would offer tax breaks to small businesses and create a $30 billion program to encourage community banks to lend.
''There's no quick fix for this recession,'' he said. ''The hard truth is that it took years to create our current economic problems, and it will take more time than any of us would like to repair the damage.''
Optimists were taking their good news where they could. By the end of the day, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 1.32 percent, continuing a rally that began in the middle of the week. Market reaction to the jobs data on Friday was tempered somewhat by a report that said growth in the services sector had slowed in August.
''I can say with greater confidence that a relapse into recession now looks even more unlikely,'' said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group. ''And the momentum is gradually building for a stronger fourth quarter and a better 2011.''
The Labor Department revised upward its private sector number for July, raising the number of jobs added to 107,000, from the 71,000 originally reported. And private sector hiring in June, originally reported at 83,000 and lowered to 31,000, was raised again to 61,000.
Mr. Baumohl, who also noted that consumer confidence had edged up in recent surveys and that a closely watched index of manufacturing showed earlier this week that employment was increasing, pointed to the fact that the jobs report showed that average weekly earnings rose slightly, to $774.97 in August from $772.92 in July.
The average workweek among private workers was unchanged at 34.2 hours, but among production and nonsupervisory employees, it edged up to 33.5 hours, from 33.4. Economists generally see such increases in pay and workweeks as an indicator that companies are pushing their existing workers harder to meet rising demand, moves that tend to presage hiring.
According to the government, manufacturing, which has been a bright spot since the beginning of the year and remains so in some other measures, showed a surprise setback in the government numbers released Friday.
For the first time since January, the sector lost jobs, a total of 27,000 in August. The Labor Department said the decline was in part attributable to the fact that carmakers did not shut down plants in July as they usually do, throwing off seasonal adjustments in August.
Thomas J. Duesterberg, the president of the Manufacturers Alliance-MAPI, said that the organization's members were slowly adding workers. ''It's not the type of robust growth that we would all like to see and would need to see if we're ever going to get back to the levels that we had before the recession,'' Mr. Duesterberg said, ''but nonetheless it's growth.''
Slow growth is certainly cold comfort to those who are out of work and seeking a job, a number that rose to 14.9 million in August, from 14.6 million in July. In one small sign of improvement, the number of people out of work for 27 weeks -- which grew alarmingly throughout the recession and its aftermath -- declined by 323,000, to 6.2 million in August from 6.6 million in July. The median length of unemployment fell to 19.9 weeks in August, from 22.2 weeks in July.
The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes people whose hours have been cut as well as those who would like work but have given up on the search out of discouragement, rose to 16.7 percent in August, compared with 16.5 percent in July. The number of people who were working part time because they could not find full-time work rose to 8.9 million in August, from 8.5 million in July.
Some struggling with unemployment say they will settle for any work, even with pay cuts.
Susan Howard, a Leander, Tex., single mother with a master's degree, said she was laid off from her software on-demand job in June and since then has been interviewing for jobs that would pay half her previous salary.
But with only $406 a week in benefits and some child support, she has stopped paying her mortgage, deferred her car payments, reached out to a ministry for help with utility bills and enrolled her son in a reduced-cost school lunch program. ''My resume is posted on every career resume site there is,'' she said. ''I have been called in for three interviews, but none of them have ever gotten back to me.''
There is unlikely to be much relief in the coming months. Most economists are forecasting lukewarm growth in the second half of the year. Growth in the second quarter was revised down last week, to 1.6 percent from 2.4 percent.
Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist for Goldman Sachs, said he believed the economy would grow at about 1.5 percent in the second half. That is not nearly enough to start bringing down unemployment in a significant way.
''Over all you generally need 3 percent G.D.P. growth or more to start making a dent in the unemployment rate on a consistent basis,'' said Mr. Hatzius, referring to gross domestic product.
He noted that Friday's report might end up being something of a Catch-22 for government action, particularly from the Federal Reserve. Last week, the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said the central bank was prepared to act if the economy continued to weaken, but Mr. Hatzius said Friday's labor market numbers might cause the Fed to hold its powder.
''If you had a really bad report, that would spur people into action more,'' Mr. Hatzius said. ''But this is going to reduce the need for immediate action.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Labor Picture in August (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RECESSION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); COMMUNITY BANKS (69%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



95 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Campbell Profit Rises, but Outlook Disappoints Investors

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Campbell Soup Company, the world's largest soup maker, reported higher quarterly profit and income on Friday, but gave an earnings forecast that trailed analysts' estimates.
The company said it expected earnings to rise by 5 to 7 percent, to $2.59 to $2.64 a share, in the year through July 2011. Analysts had forecast $2.64 a share, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. 
Fourth-quarter profit increased 64 percent, the company said in a statement.
Net income rose to $113 million, or 33 cents a share, in the period ending Aug. 1, from $69 million, or 20 cents, a year earlier. Analysts had expected 30 cents on average. Revenue fell less than 1 percent, to $1.52 billion.
Soup sales fell 5 percent in the United States in the last quarter after rising 2 percent in the previous period. Ready-to-serve and condensed varieties each declined 7 percent. Beverage sales jumped 12 percent, as the company sold more V8 juice drinks.
Douglas R. Conant, Campbell's chief executive, said consumers were being extremely selective amid tightened household budgets and high unemployment.
''There is a palpable change in consumer buying behavior that is unlike anything we have experienced, certainly for a few decades,'' Mr. Conant said in a conference call with analysts. ''Mom is not sending the teenagers out to go pick up the groceries now. She's looking at where the best deal is, and sort of surgically buying.''
Analysts said the company's outlook did not inspire investors.
''It's starting to feel a little bit like Groundhog Day where every year going into soup season everybody's big bet is whether this year is going to show improvement after a disappointing last season,'' said Edward Aaron, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Denver. ''We certainly haven't seen any fundamental evidence to support the view that it will.''
Campbell, which is based in Camden, N.J., said marketing and selling expenses rose 6 percent, to $221 million, last quarter, driven in part by increased advertising expenses.
The company said it expected overall sales to rise 2 to 3 percent in 2011, less than its long-term sales goal of 3 to 4 percent.
Mr. Conant said Campbell would adjust promotions and ads depending on the season and the store or retail chain to adapt to consumer buying habits.
Campbell shares fell 2.97 percent, or $1.11, to close at $36.21.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Campbell's headquarters in Camden, N.J. Consumers are being very selective, the company said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (88%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (87%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES PLAN (74%); RETAILERS (74%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (68%); EXECUTIVES (52%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%)

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO (95%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%)

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (95%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS R CONANT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



96 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Unveil Plans to Shore Up Economy

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama, calling the latest jobs report ''positive news,'' said Friday that he planned to unveil a ''package of ideas'' next week to shore up the flagging economy, and does not regret his administration's decision to declare this season the ''recovery summer.'' 
Mr. Obama spoke from the White House Rose Garden hours after the latest jobs report showed unemployment had nudged up to 9.6 percent, even as private employers added 67,000 jobs in August. He tried to put a positive spin on the developments, noting that August was the eight consecutive month of private job growth, and that the numbers for July had been revised upward.
Both the June and July numbers on private job growth were revised Friday by the Labor Department. In July, growth in the private sector was revised up to 107,000 jobs from 71,000, and in June, 61,000 jobs were added instead of 31,000.
Mr. Obama did not offer specifics about what ideas he is considering, though he has said repeatedly that he wants to extend middle class tax cuts and promote new investment in clean energy.
Once again, he called for Congress to pass a stalled bill that would offer tax breaks to small businesses and create a $30 billion loan program to encourage community banks to lend.
''I will be addressing a broader package of ideas next week,'' Mr. Obama said, taking the rare step of responding to a reporter's shouted question. ''We are confident that we are moving in the right direction but we want to keep this recovery moving stronger and accelerate the job growth that's needed so desperately across the country.''
Asked if he regretted calling this ''the recovery summer,'' Mr. Obama said, ''I don't regret the notion that we are moving forward because of the steps we have taken,'' adding that he would take more questions at a news conference scheduled for next Friday.
The unusual impromptu question-and-answer session -- Mr. Obama usually slips quickly out of the Rose Garden after making such prepared statements -- reflects the deep pressure the president is under to address the high unemployment rate as the midterm elections quickly approach.
After a week spent on foreign affairs, including an Oval Office address to announce the end of the combat mission in Iraq and a new round of Middle East peace talks, the president is pivoting to the economy, Americans' primary concern. He will travel on Monday, Labor Day, to a union picnic in Milwaukee and will deliver a speech on the economy in Cleveland on Wednesday, followed by the news conference on Friday.
''There's no quick fix for this recession,'' Mr. Obama said Friday. ''The hard truth is that it took years to create our current economic problems and it will take more time than any of us would like to repair the damage.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); US LABOR DAY (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); COMMUNITY BANKS (65%); PEACE PROCESS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010



97 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2686 words

HEADLINE: Off Off Off Broadway? Try Dublin

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY. 
PATRICK HEALY is the theater reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
THE half-dozen cocktail tables on the sidewalk by Grogans Pub were mobbed with after-work, pint-packing patrons, but my companion that evening, the American actor Harris Yulin, promised that the seats were worth the wait. ''I love the gloaming in Ireland,'' Mr. Yulin said, and indeed, once we snagged a spot, the long summer twilight of Dublin was orangey warm and slumbering, worthy of a Tony Award for lighting.
One of several top-tier actors who regularly leave Broadway or the West End to work here, Mr. Yulin (a familiar face from films like ''Training Day'' and television series like ''24'') was midway through rehearsals as Willy Loman in ''Death of a Salesman,'' which is playing at Dublin's Gate Theater through Sept. 25. ''The play's theme of financial hardship has resonance, given Ireland's terrible recession,'' Mr. Yulin said, ''but I'm worried whether audiences here will understand the symbolism of football in the play -- will understand the way that football can bond American fathers and sons.'' 
Three feet away stood a young Irishman who was clearly eavesdropping. It wasn't long before he asked if he could join the table. Mr. Yulin smiled tentatively; he was used to the occasional autograph seeker back in New York, but not to no-holds-barred Irishmen wanting to talk shop.
''You don't have to worry about Dublin audiences,'' said the man, who later introduced himself as Eoin Dillon, a doctoral student at University College Dublin. ''We adore our theater. We'll go on whatever journey you actors want us to take.''
If Dublin lacks the obvious wealth of productions on Broadway and in London's West End, its handful of theaters regularly produce gems that earn international interest. Capital city to an all-star list of playwrights that includes George Bernard Shaw, Oscar Wilde, William Butler Yeats and Samuel Beckett, Dublin continues to develop important and inventive talents today.
A four-day visit over this summer revealed a small but energized theatrical community producing works that felt refreshingly different from the conventional instincts that seem to determine much of what ends up in New York and London. With a mix of leading Irish, American and British actors regularly on stage; award-winning international directors; and wildly affordable tickets, Dublin is a rich destination for theatergoing, with an intimate personality to match its snug playhouses.
I anchored my stay at two hotels, the Clarence and the Morrison, which face each other across the River Liffey and are as handsomely designed and modern as they are ideally located, each within striking distance of the major theaters. This brings me to another Dublin secret: anyone so inclined can usually see every major production on offer in a week. While Broadway comprises 40 theaters, and London's West End has roughly the same number, Dublin has five or so major theaters, most notably the Abbey, the Gate, the Gaiety, the Olympia and the Grand Canal; there are also a few small venues like the Project Arts Center that mirror the size and experimental thrust of Off and Off Off Broadway.
Making the theatergoing experience even more user-friendly, most of Dublin's theaters are within a mile or so of one another, and weather permitting, walking among them is a perfect way to explore and absorb the city's literary roots. For Dublin is a writer's town at its core, from the countless blocks stalked in James Joyce's ''Ulysses'' to the surfeit of independent bookstores and museums like the Dublin Writers Museum near the Gate Theater. Then there are the young playwrights and aspiring novelists forever toiling away at tables in the cozy Stage Door Cafe or the lovely glass-enclosed coffee bar at the Irish Film Institute.
I started my own tour by enjoying a look at the Victorian architecture of the Gaiety (which was showing ''Riverdance'' at the time) in the heart of the city's shopping district before wandering around the corner to St. Stephen's Green, the magnificent city park of winding paths, open heaths and memorials honoring some of Ireland's greatest writers.
After a visit to see the lobby artwork at the Abbey, I strolled one long block to the General Post Office, a majestic Georgian building that served as the headquarters of the leaders of the Easter Rising of 1916. (A small plaque in the lobby of the Abbey names several of its actors and artists who, during that battle for independence, ran from the theater to the General Post Office to take up arms.) From there, a 10-minute walk south over the Liffey took me to the Project Arts Center, next to the Clarence (where, it seems, there are four pubs on every block instead of just the usual two).
But you can walk pretty much anywhere in Dublin and find yourself on a literary ramble. Just up the street from Trinity College and its Book of Kells are a pair of bridges over the Liffey that were named for two of Ireland's best-known playwrights, Beckett and Sean O'Casey. The Beckett Bridge, which opened last year, immediately became Dublin's most dazzling. A white, cable-stayed crossing designed by Santiago Calatrava, it has become a destination not only for architecture buffs but also for daring Dubliners who have turned its north end into a diving spot. One of them, Tommy Mallory, age 9, described the pleasures of plunging from the bridge on a hot afternoon as he stood dripping wet in his shorts and sneakers.
''It's about a 10-, 11-, 12-meter drop, I'd say, and the water is fine for a soak and not too cold,'' Tommy said. Asked if he knew who Beckett was, the reply was immediate: ''For sure,'' he said, ''one of our writers -- though he lived in Paris a lot.'' The playwright, who famously decamped to France, disgusted with Ireland's conservatism, would no doubt be pleased with the unsanctioned bridge-leaping.
MOST guidebooks for Ireland lean hard on rolling hillsides and golf, and passages devoted to Dublin tend to dwell on its historical markers and the tightly organized shopping district on Grafton Street, giving shorter shrift to books and theater.
This may change if efforts by Ireland's theaters and government to market local theater are successful. But on my arrival, I saw no obvious announcements for any current productions at all. (I learned about a stage production of ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest'' only from a poster pasted up on a random street wall.)
Lacking anything like the TKTS discount booths or the billboards of Broadway and London, Dublin doesn't exactly make it easy to sniff out what's playing. Hunting around the Web, however, I found two sites that provided detailed, up-to-date overviews and links to performances: cultureireland.com and dublinks.com. Most of the theaters, too, have helpful Web sites with show descriptions, schedules, seating and prices, which at most theaters tend to range from 15 to 35 euros (about $19 to $44, at $1.24 to the euro).
While there is no theater season per se, the busiest time on the boards is in the fall, with the Dublin Fringe Festival, which runs this year from Sept. 11 to 26, and the larger and popular Dublin Theater Festival, which runs Sept. 30 to Oct. 17. This year a Gate festival of plays by Beckett, Harold Pinter and David Mamet, entitled ''BPM: The Relish of Language,'' is also running through the first half of October.
I timed my own stay to sample a range of new work and revivals, starting on my first night with a trip to the Abbey, the national theater of Ireland. Opened in 1904, the Abbey grew out of the Irish Literary Theater that Yeats, among others, helped found in a spirit of cultural nationalism. (Not that Shakespeare has ever gone out of style here.) That night a crowd of about 30 mingled in the overly warm second-floor lounge as seagulls cackled over the Liffey a block away. Dublin theatergoers tend to arrive early to mingle and drink, and offerings at the Abbey's well-stocked bar were going at a rapid clip. At some point, ''Hit the Road, Jack'' boomed from the lounge's sound system, and some patrons began singing along with Ray Charles.
The night's offering was ''Bookworms,'' a new comedy by the homegrown playwright Bernard Farrell about a women's book club that goes to pieces when the assorted husbands are invited along one night. Like every audience I would sit with throughout my visit, this one was unabashed in its laughter, sighs and clucking tongues. I happened to be seated next to five members of a real book club, and they regaled me -- unbidden -- with stories of their own co-ed meltdown when the group tackled Virginia Woolf's ''Mrs. Dalloway.'' As the second act started, I popped back briefly to an open spot that I'd spotted in the last row (the 19th), simply to check out the experience from there; the acoustics and sightlines remained perfect -- not a bad seat in the house.
Another night I caught ''Bogboy,'' a new drama about friendship and violence in Northern Ireland by Deirdre Kinahan, one of the growing number of female playwrights being produced here. It was performed in a 200-seat venue at the Project Arts Center and attracted an audience as young and goateed as the Abbey's was 50-something and female. On my last night I saw ''Arcadia,'' Tom Stoppard's much-produced literary detective story, at the Gate, which is known chiefly for producing European and American classics. With only 371 seats, the Gate is a particularly tight fit, and I had to deal with the elbow of the person next to me as she energetically fanned herself.
The performances were uniformly excellent, as well as being amazing bargains (especially given the intimate theaters and the casts all speaking in wonderful Irish brogues). Simply put, I left wanting to see more -- more from modern playwrights like Enda Walsh and Brian Friel, and more from the great bloodline of Wilde and Synge, of O'Casey and Beckett.
I just missed another revival, at the Gaiety, of Wilde's ''Importance of Being Earnest,'' starring Stockard Channing, who is among the actors delving into great roles here at a remove from the legions of critics and theater bloggers in America. The Academy Award-winning actress Frances McDormand (''Fargo''), for instance, played Blanche DuBois in a Gate production of ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' in 1998. More recently, Len Cariou (the Broadway veteran and Tony winner for the original ''Sweeney Todd'') played the tragic patriarch in the Gate's ''All My Sons'' in 2009.
''One open secret of Dublin theater is that Americans can come here, and for tickets costing only 30 euros, you can see your greatest actors chomping into roles that they might not get a chance to play -- or want to play -- in the hothouse of Broadway,'' said Michael Colgan, the artistic director of the Gate since 1983.
While in Ireland there is no stage door culture of theatergoers rushing actors for autographs, Mr. Yulin of ''Salesman'' said plenty of people had come to him with a word of praise at pubs like Grogans or elsewhere in the city. One popular spot with actors, Bewley's, offers lunchtime theater featuring a mix of veteran and up-and-coming actors. For dinner, I visited two restaurants that were said to be magnets for spotting artists: the Trocadero, Dublin's version of Sardi's, where the walls are full of autographed photos of performers, and the Winding Stair, an intimate restaurant-cum-bookstore with a gorgeous view of the Liffey. The meal I had there -- a steaming bowl of Irish chowder thick with seafood and chorizo (9.95 euros), and a juicy char-grilled Irish Aberdeen Angus sirloin with sticky onions and garlic butter for 26.50 euros -- was the most expensive meal I had in Dublin, and also the best.
Another evening I scarfed a doorstop of a sandwich at a tiny bistro called Gruel before a performance, and then afterward met up with a 30-year-old Irish playwright named Philly McMahon for a theater outing of a less traditional sort.
Mr. McMahon took me to Pantibar, a popular gay pub that opened in 2007 under the ownership of a drag queen named Panti (whose real name is Rory O'Neill) who organizes drag acts and singers several nights a week. Rather than simply lip-sync songs, however, Panti and her comrades re-enact scenes from movies and television shows. That evening featured an excerpted scene from the Bette Davis-Joan Crawford movie ''What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?'' in which the tormenter Jane served a roasted rat to her wheelchair-bound sister Blanche. It was the funniest five minutes I'd seen on a stage in some time.
''Theater in Dublin is more than just Yeats nowadays,'' Mr. McMahon deadpanned.
That sentiment held true, as well, for the post-''Bookworms'' crowd that made its way over to the Flowing Tide, a pub diagonally across from the Abbey, after the performance. Actors from the Abbey drop in from time to time, and the Flowing Tide has also erected a shrine of sorts to a dozen famous Irish performers who made their names in theater here. Their photographs, a young Gabriel Byrne among them, are affixed across from the front door.
''The Twelve Apostles, we call 'em,'' said Dave Campbell, the bartender that night. ''Actors are gods in Ireland.''
No cast members from ''Bookworms'' flowed in that night, but there were some amateur actors in the post-performance crowd. One of them, Cora Stronge Smith, a primary school teacher from Banagher, about 85 miles west of Dublin, had taken in ''Bookworms'' with several colleagues as part of her retirement celebration.
Ms. Stronge Smith began performing years ago in her local amateur troupe, which are staples of Irish cities and villages. Her first role was in John B. Keane's play ''The Field,'' made into a movie starring Richard Harris; Ms. Stronge Smith played ''somebody's wife'' in the production, a part that only had one line of dialogue -- enough to hook her on theater for good.
''I think Irish people are basically show-offs,'' said Ms. Stronge Smith over a pint of Guinness. ''We have storytelling and playacting in our blood. Frankly, I can't imagine anyone getting a real sense of Ireland without experiencing some sense of the theater that is so much a part of who we are.''
IF YOU GO
A recent online search found nonstop flights out of New York area airports in October starting at $559.
LODGING
Rooms at the Morrison (Lower Ormond Quay; 353-1-887-2400; morrisonhotel.ie) start at 135 euros, or $168 at $1.24 to the euro, if booked online. Many Dublin hotels offer lower rates if reservations are prepaid; the Morrison's current advance purchase rate begins at 99 euros.
Standard rates at the Clarence (6-8 Wellington Quay; 353-1-407-0800; theclarence.ie) begin at 139 euros and advance purchase is as low as 109.
Number 31(31 Leeson Close; 353-1-676-5011; number31.ie), a charming guesthouse that is a 10-minute walk to St. Stephen's Green, offers a mix of rooms with a superb breakfast included. Single rooms begin at around 140 euros.
THEATER
Most Dublin theaters have useful Web sites with information on shows, schedules and ticket orders. Among them: the Abbey (26 Lower Abbey Street; 353-1-878-7222; abbeytheatre.ie); the Gate (1 Cavendish Row, Parnell Square; 353-1-874-4045; www.gate-theatre.ie); the Gaiety (50 South King Street; 353-1-679-5622; gaietytheatre.ie); and Project Arts Center (39 East Essex Street; 3531-881 9613; projectartscentre.ie).
Information about the annual Dublin Fringe Festival (Sept. 11 to 26) can be found at www.fringefest.com; information about the Dublin Theater Festival (Sept. 30 to Oct. 17) is at dublintheatrefestival.com. DINING
Among the appealing restaurants in Dublin are the Winding Stair (40 Lower Ormond Quay; 353-1-872-7320; winding-stair.com); the Trocadero (4 St. Andrew Street; 353-1-677-5545; trocadero.ie); the Unicorn (12b Merrion Court; 353-1-676- 2182; unicornrestaurant.com/), a block from St. Stephen's Green; Bewley's (78 Grafton Street; 353-1-672-7720; bewleys.com); and Gruel (68a Dame Street; 353-1-670-7119; gruel.ie).
And among pubs, which seem countless, are Grogans (15 South William Street; 353-1-677-9320; groganspub.ie); the Flowing Tide (9 Lower Abbey Street; 353-1-874-4108); and Pantibar (8 Capel Street; 353-1-8740-710; pantibar.com).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOP: Pubs just outside the Abbey Theater cater to actors and theatergoers alike. ABOVE: Patrons also mingle inside the Abbey, one of five major theaters in Dublin. (TR1)
RIGHT: The Abbey Theater, opened in 1904, grew out of the Irish Literary Theater that Yeats and others helped found in a spirit of cultural nationalism. BELOW: Bunny, left, and Panti, perform at Pantibar, a popular gay pub.
ABOVE: The smoked fish plate at the Winding Stair, a restaurant and bookstore on Ormond Quay.
LEFT: The walls of the Trocadero restaurant are full of autographed photos of performers. FAR LEFT The Samuel Beckett Bridge over the Liffey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEREK SPEIRS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (TR6
 TR7) MAPS (TR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); THEATER (57%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (54%); WRITERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



98 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan Tries to Help Nation's Biggest Bank as Panic Continues

BYLINE: By ADAM B. ELLICK; Sangar Rahimi and Sharifullah Sahak contributed reporting from Kabul, and Mark Landler from Washington.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- In a bid to fend off the threat of a nationwide financial crisis, the Afghan government scrambled to shore up Afghanistan's largest bank on Saturday after lines of frantic depositors mobbed the bank for a third day.
The efforts, which an Afghan official said could include the injection of Afghan government funds into the privately owned Kabul Bank, are meant to head off the run on the bank by its customers, who have withdrawn more than $200 million in the past few days amid fears of a wider economic collapse.
Officials said the Afghan government had not decided whether it needed to bail out the bank. But the Afghan Central Bank has pulled in funds from abroad, including $300 million that had been held in the United States Federal Reserve Bank, to have money on hand to guarantee the bank's liquidity, American officials said.
A small team of advisers from the United States Treasury Department was in Kabul providing technical assistance, but American officials said no United States funds would be involved in the effort to rescue the bank. 
The panic began last week when the Central Bank ousted the bank's chairman and the chief executive officer, after discovering that the bank had lent hundreds of millions of dollars to allies of President Hamid Karzai and poured money into risky real estate investments in Dubai.
The crisis threatened to undermine confidence in Afghanistan's fledgling financial system, which was built under American guidance after the collapse of the Taliban government in 2001. Among the clients of the bank is the government, which pays the salaries of about 250,000 public employees through the bank, including those of security officials and the military.
The bank, whose major shareholders include a brother of Mr. Karzai and a brother of the first vice president, helped finance the president's election campaign last year and lent luxury apartments in Dubai rent-free to well-placed officials. Those connections helped shield the bank from scrutiny, officials said.
The Afghan government has since appointed a chief financial officer of the Central Bank to run the Kabul Bank, transferred $100 million to the bank to ensure it could pay salaries of government employees and promised to guarantee investors' deposits.
An American official described those moves, as well as the withdrawal of Afghan reserves from the United States and other central banks, as prudent steps a bank regulator should take in such a crisis.
But on Saturday they appeared to have done little to stem the panic. Thousands of nervous depositors were lined up outside the bank's central branch in Kabul by 6 a.m. to withdraw their savings. Hundreds of men pushed and shoved their way to the front, while others waited behind them for hours in the sauna-like swelter of the lobby, making it impossible to discern where the lines ended and began.
Furious customers shouted angry complaints. An elderly woman cried out in distress.
But the teller drawers were largely empty and most customers left empty-handed. ''What should I give you when I have nothing to give?'' a teller told one agitated customer.
Similar scenes were reported at branches in other cities.
Top officials at Kabul Bank and a senior leader at the Central Bank declined to comment on the details of the rescue efforts, which were still being negotiated Saturday. However, a manager at the Central Bank and a senior American official confirmed that there would be what the American official called an ''intervention.''
The United States is advising the Afghan government on how to manage the crisis, but is not contributing any American money, officials said.
''This is an Afghan issue,'' Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin said in a statement. ''While we are providing technical assistance to the Afghan government, no American taxpayer funds will be used to support Kabul Bank.''
The official at the Afghan Central Bank, who, like others involved in the deliberations, requested anonymity, said that the bank's risk management department was preparing to take over operations at Kabul Bank, and that Kabul's existing management would be purged.
A major shareholder in the bank, Mahmoud Karzai, the brother of the Afghan president, said Saturday that government assistance would be unnecessary considering that the bank still retained half of its assets, which officials say are about $2 billion. He said the government ''will absolutely guarantee'' the salaries of public servants and was transferring money to Kabul Bank each day.
Such assurances failed to curtail the rush of withdrawals.
One of the customers waiting for his money at Kabul Bank on Saturday was a Central Bank employee, who said that the government might prevent a long-term crisis but that it did little to ease his short-term fears.
''I don't want to lose my money,'' said the man, who refused to give his name because of his position at the Central Bank.
Officials at Kabul Bank said they had not yet calculated how much money customers withdrew on Saturday, but that they believed that the figure was less than in previous days. On Thursday, one of the bank's principal owners said depositors had withdrawn $180 million in the previous two days.
But according to a bank employee distributing tickets for places in line to bank patrons, the crowds on Saturday were higher than ever. By 1 p.m., nearly 2,000 people were waiting in line.
Mahmoud Siakal, a former deputy foreign minister, said the bank's problems reflected deeper problems with the government and the financial system.
''What's happening with Kabul Bank shows an advanced level of the weakening of rule of law since 2002,'' he said. ''We beg the world to invest here, and on the other hand, our own wealth is disappearing from the country. The fact that government is guaranteeing the bank won't collapse -- who gave them the right to inject all that money into Kabul Bank?''
Some economists argue that the crisis in the nation's largest bank, if allowed to continue, could create a devastating ripple effect on other sectors of the economy. Others, however, say that because a vast majority of Afghanistan's economy runs on cash and in the black market, the rest of the economy is largely immune from Kabul Bank's woes.
The bank crisis is compounded by the coming arrival of Id al-Fitr, the Muslim holiday when Afghans punctuate the end of the holy month of Ramadan with lavish shopping sprees. Also, many other customers typically withdraw their monthly salaries at the start of each month.
The Afghanistan Banks Association, which represents of 17 commercial banks, called the situation ''normal and controlled'' because the public now understands that the government would not allow the bank to collapse.
Najibullah Amiri, the general secretary of the association, said the frantic customers at the bank were simply ''illiterate people who hear the news and start withdrawing.'' He said the bank had no liquidity issues.
At the bank's main branch, an environmental engineer named Hamid disagreed. He had waited more than five hours to fill his straw vegetable sack with his entire savings: $100,000.
''I don't trust my government,'' he said, gripping the sack tightly. ''They lie. I'm an old man, and I have enough experience in my life to know how this government is.''
10 Afghans Killed in Bombings
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Ten Afghans, including four police officers, were killed Saturday in bombings in the cities of Kunduz and Kandahar, NATO and local government officials said.
A suicide car bomb struck a NATO convoy in Kandahar, killing 3 civilians and wounding 11, NATO said. The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack.
In Kunduz, a remote-controlled bomb detonated atop a parked motorcycle, killing seven Afghans, including the four police officers, local officials said.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Sunday about a deal to stabilize Afghanistan's largest bank overstated, in some copies, the role of the United States in the effort. White House officials said the United States was providing technical assistance, not bailout money.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Afghans in Kabul lined up Saturday to withdraw their savings from Kabul Bank amid fears of the bank's imminent collapse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY S. SABAWOON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); TALIBAN (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BANK BRANCHES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



99 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Unhappy Days

BYLINE: By DAVID FRUM. 
David Frum is the editor of FrumForum.com and the author of ''How We Got Here: The 1970s, the Decade That Brought You Modern Life.''

 BODY:
RIGHT STAR RISING
A New Politics, 1974-1980
By Laura Kalman
Illustrated. 473 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $27.95
Art historians tell us that photography revolutionized painting. Suddenly there was a better way of recording the physical appearance of things, and artists had to discover new purposes for brush and pigment. But for those living through the revolution, the process must have seemed more gradual. Long after the Impressionists and Cubists and Futurists, there must have been serious portraitists who continued to earn a living depicting brides on their wedding day or businessmen made good.
I kept thinking of those backward-looking artists all the way through Laura Kalman's ''Right Star Rising.'' As a work of history about the Ford and Carter years, there is nothing seriously wrong with it. The facts are accurate, the writing is clear and the point of view is not tendentious. Once upon a time, such a book might have been useful to somebody. 
But the question it raises -- and it's not a question about this book alone -- is: What's the point of this kind of history in the age of the Internet? Suppose I'm an undergraduate who stumbles for the first time across the phrase ''Proposition 13.'' I could, if I were minded, walk over to the university library, pull this book from the shelf and flip to the index. Or I could save myself two hours and Google it. I wouldn't learn more from a Google search than I'd learn in these pages. But I wouldn't learn a whole lot less either.
Although Kalman's footnotes suggest some labor in the archives, ''Right Star Rising'' offers little or nothing in the way of previously undiscovered information about the half-decade under survey, few if any original perceptions. Thus:
''In the summer of 1976, author and journalist Tom Wolfe announced that the United States had entered 'the me decade.' . . . Wolfe's mockery, which suggested that nothing good could come of introspection and individualism, was unfair. True, some Americans wore a bizarre piece of jewelry, the mood ring, which changed colors to reflect their shifting frames of mind. But in the aftermath of Watergate, the Vietnam War and the '60s, it seemed only appropriate to look inward.''
A historian reading Wolfe's essay 30 years later might wonder: Was he right? If so, why did these things happen? What consequences did they have?
Kalman, a professor of history at the University of California, Santa Barbara, does not wonder about any of this. She accepts Wolfe's generalization unskeptically, reports it inaccurately (he was not talking about ''introspection''), then scolds him for it. After this detour into the uncertain realm of mentalities and values, Kalman reverts with relief to the next job: a close summary of the main provisions of the 1974 campaign finance law.
At least when you are writing American political history, recent technological change should force you to think: What am I doing and why? People can watch Richard Nixon's resignation speech for themselves on their phones. Government agencies post inflation and unemployment numbers stretching back to World War II. If I am to tell the story of the recent past, I must tell more than is instantly accessible to any moderately motivated citizen. Rather than (for example) recite the campaign finance law's contents, I should help my reader to understand its subtle, far-reaching and perverse effects. Otherwise, who needs me?
Like many books of modern history, ''Right Star Rising'' neglects that self-interrogation. The result is a diligent recapitulation of well-known events, perfectly competent and more or less unnecessary.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPHS: GERALD FORD BY DAVID HUME KENNERLY, COURTESY GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS (1975)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); ART HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); HISTORY (89%); WRITERS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (72%); LIBRARIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); VIETNAM WAR (50%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); GOOGLE INC (68%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Right Star Rising: A New Politics, 1974-1980 (Book)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



100 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: New Program for Buyers, With No Money Down

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
MILWAUKEE -- When the housing bubble burst, one of the culprits, economists agreed, was exotic mortgages, including those that required little or no money down.
But on a recent evening, Matthew and Hannah Middlebrooke stood in their new $115,000 three-bedroom ranch house here, which Mr. Middlebrooke bought in June with just $1,000 down.
Because he also received a grant to cover closing costs and insurance, the check he wrote at the closing was for 67 cents.
''I thought I'd be stuck renting for years,'' said Mr. Middlebrooke, 26, who earns $32,000 a year as a producer for a Christian television ministry. 
Although home foreclosures are again expected to top two million this year, Fannie Mae, the lending giant that required a government takeover, is creeping back into the market for mortgages with no down payment.
Mr. Middlebrooke's mortgage came from a new program called Affordable Advantage, available to first-time home buyers in four states and created in conjunction with the states' housing finance agencies. The program is expected to stay small, said Janis Smith, a spokeswoman for Fannie Mae.
Some experts are concerned about the revival of such mortgages.
''Loans that have zero down payment perform worse than loans with down payments,'' said Mathew Scire, a director of the Government Accountability Office's financial markets and community investment team. ''And loans with down payment assistance'' -- like Mr. Middlebrooke's -- ''perform worse than those that do not.''
But the surprise is the support these loans have received, even from critics of exotic mortgages, who say low down payments themselves were not the problem, except when combined with other risk factors like adjustable rates or lax underwriting.
Moreover, they say, the housing market needs such nontraditional lending, as long as it is done prudently.
''This is subprime lending done right,'' said John Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, an umbrella group for 600 community organizations, and a staunch critic of the lending industry. ''If they had done subprime this way in the first place, we wouldn't have these problems.''
At Harvard's Joint Center for Housing Studies, Eric Belsky, the director, said the loans might be the type of step necessary to restart the housing market, because down payment requirements are keeping first-time home buyers out.
''If you look at where the market may get strength from, it may very well be from first-time buyers,'' he said. ''And a very significant constraint to first-time buyers is the wealth constraint.''
The loans are the idea of state housing finance agencies, or H.F.A.'s, quasi-government entities created to help moderate-income people buy their first homes.
Throughout the foreclosure crisis, the state agencies continued to make loans with low down payments, often to borrowers with tarnished credit, with much lower default rates than comparable mortgages from commercial lenders or the Federal Housing Administration. The reason: the agencies did not offer adjustable rates, and they continued to document buyers' income and assets, which many commercial lenders did not do. In 2009, the agencies' sources of revenue dried up, and they had to curtail most lending.
Then they created Affordable Advantage. The loans are 30-year fixed mortgages, with mandatory homeownership counseling, available to people with credit scores of 680 and above (720 in Massachusetts). The buyers have to put in $1,000 and must live in the homes.
All of these requirements ease the risk, said William Fitzpatrick, vice president and senior credit officer of Moody's Investors Service. ''These aren't the loans that led us into the mortgage crisis,'' he said.
So far Idaho, Massachusetts, Minnesota and Wisconsin are offering the loans. The Wisconsin Housing and Economic Development Authority has issued 500 loans since March, making it the first state to act. After six months, there are no delinquencies so far, said Kate Venne, a spokeswoman for the agency.
The agencies buy the loans from lenders, then sell them as securities to Fannie Mae. Because the government now owns 80 percent of Fannie Mae, taxpayers are on the hook if the loans go bad.
The state agencies oversee the servicing of the loans and work with buyers if they fall behind -- a mitigating factor, said Mr. Fitzpatrick of Moody's.
''They have a mission to put people in homes and keep them in homes,'' not to foreclose unless other options are exhausted, he said. The loans have interest rates about one-half of a percentage point above comparable loans that require down payments.
Ms. Smith, the spokeswoman for Fannie Mae, distinguished the program from loans of the boom years that ''layered risk on top of risk.''
With the new loans, she said, ''income is fully documented, monthly payments are fixed, credit score requirements are generally higher, and borrowers must be thoroughly counseled on the home-buying process and managing their mortgage debt.''
For Porfiria Gonzalez and her son, Eric, the loan allowed them to move out of a rental house in a neighborhood with a high crime rate to a quiet street where her neighbors are retirees and police officers.
Ms. Gonzalez, 30, processes claims in the foreclosure unit at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage; she has seen the many ways a mortgage holder can fail.
On a recent afternoon in her three-bedroom ranch house here, Ms. Gonzalez said she did not see herself as repeating the risks of the homeowners whose claims she processed.
''I learned to stay away from ARM loans,'' or adjustable rate mortgages, she said. ''That's the No. 1 thing. And always have some emergency money.''
When she first started shopping, she looked at houses priced around $140,000. But the homeownership counselor said she should keep the purchase price closer to $100,000.
''They explained to me that I don't need a $1,200-a-month payment,'' she said.
The counselor worked with her real estate agent and attended her closing. On May 28, Ms. Gonzalez bought her home for $90,500, with monthly payments of $834. After moving expenses, she has kept her savings close to $5,000 to shield her from emergencies.
''If I had to make a down payment, it would have wiped out my savings,'' she said. ''I would have started with nothing.''
Now, she said, she is in a home she can afford in a neighborhood where her son can play in the yard. A neighbor brought her a metal pink flamingo with a welcome sign to place by her side door.
''My favorite part is the big backyard,'' said Eric, 10. ''And that's pretty much it.''
''You don't like it that it's a quiet, safe neighborhood?'' his mother asked.
''Yeah, I do.''
''He didn't go out much with kids in the old neighborhood,'' she said.
''Because they were bad kids,'' he said.
Ms. Gonzalez said that owning a house was much more work than renting, and that when the basement flooded during a heavy rain, her heart sank.
''But I look at it as an investment,'' she said, adding that a similar house in the neighborhood was on the market for $120,000.
Prentiss Cox, a professor at the University of Minnesota Law School who has been deeply critical of the mortgage industry, said the program met an important need and highlighted the track record of state housing agencies, which never engaged in exotic loans.
''It's not a story people want to hear, because it won't bring back the big profits,'' Mr. Cox said. ''The H.F.A.'s have shown how the problems of the last 10 years were about having sound and prudent regulation of lending, not just whether the loans were prime or subprime.''
He added, ''One of the great and unsung tragedies of the whole crisis was the end of the subprime market.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matthew and Hannah Middlebrooke bought their first home, in Milwaukee, with a mortgage through a Fannie Mae program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HAUCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



101 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: Resentment Simmers in Western Chinese Region

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Xiyun Yang contributed research.

 BODY:
URUMQI, China -- The five-star hotels are full, bulldozers are making quick work of dreary slums and billboards for ''French-style villas'' call out to the nouveau riche. In the year since rioting between the Han and Uighur ethnic groups killed nearly 200 people in this city in far western China, life appears to be returning to normal.
''Don't worry, everything is peaceful now,'' said the perky bellhop at a hotel in the city's predominantly Han Chinese quarter.
But before turning away, he had second thoughts. ''You'd better not go to the Uighur part of town at night,'' he said. 
Beneath the gloss and mercantile buzz of Urumqi, the capital of the Xinjiang region, there is a palpable unease that neither tens of thousands of surveillance cameras nor the patrolling squads of black-shirted police officers can completely assuage.
Since July 2009, when rampaging Uighur mobs set upon Han Chinese with iron bars and bricks -- a scene that was reversed for several days when Han vigilantes sought revenge -- the Chinese authorities have arrested hundreds and tried to soothe frayed nerves with a $1.5 billion spending package, a change in local leadership and a barrage of uplifting slogans strung across public buses and highway overpasses.
But the feel-good propaganda and revved-up economy have so far done little to repair the mutual distrust. And experts say the government's ''strike hard'' campaign, which has led to the secret detention of perceived troublemakers and the execution of at least nine people accused of having a hand in the bloodshed, has worsened tensions.
''I don't think a single Uighur is convinced that the government is acting in their interests,'' said Dru C. Gladney, a professor of Asian studies at Pomona College in California who studies the region. ''In fact, the hostile environment is making people feel embattled and resentful.''
Given the heightened surveillance here, it is not always easy to tease out unvarnished sentiments from either the Uighurs, a Turkic-speaking Muslim minority, or the Han, who make up 96 percent of China's population. But with patience and the promise of anonymity, raw resentments emerge.
Take the Han Chinese owner of a small restaurant who initially described Uighurs as ''part of our family'' but later allowed that he found the vast majority of them frightening, untrustworthy and ''savage.''
The man, who would give only his surname, Zhou, said he stopped riding buses in Urumqi last fall after the city was swept by tales of Uighurs jabbing Han with H.I.V.-infected hypodermic needles. The police initially detained more than a dozen people in the attacks but later dismissed suggestions that the needles were contaminated.
Like the hundreds of thousands of Han who migrate to Xinjiang each year, Mr. Zhou, who left Sichuan Province in 2004, said he was partly inspired by the notion that he was helping to ''open up'' western China. Although he grew up learning that the Uighurs were Chinese and part of the country's happy kaleidoscope of 56 ethnicities, he said he quickly discovered otherwise.
''We just don't have much in common,'' he said with a wary glance around him. ''And what's worse is they don't appreciate what we've done for them.''
Much as it did in Tibet, in an effort to pacify another restive ethnic region, the government has spent huge sums of money to try to help Xinjiang's economy catch up to eastern China, where income and production are on average twice as high. In May, the Communist Party announced the first leg of its ''Love the Great Motherland, Build a Beautiful Homeland'' initiative, which will include six new airports and 5,000 more miles of rail line linking the far-flung cities in this Alaska-size region of desert and mountains.
Bowing to popular discontent, Beijing also replaced the region's leader, Wang Lequan, whose 15-year tenure was marked by a hard-line approach that alienated many Uighurs and in the end failed to forestall the riots, prompting street protests by Han residents demanding his resignation.
The Uighurs, who make up just under half of Xinjiang's 22 million people -- down from more than 90 percent in 1949 -- harbor their own deeply felt animosities. Beijing is determined to dilute Uighur culture, they say, while Han migrants often end up with the best jobs, especially in government bureaucracies or in the factories of the prosperous ''bingtuan,'' the largely segregated Han outposts carved out of the desert by the People's Liberation Army in the 1950s.
While an inability to speak Mandarin shuts some Uighurs out of Han-run companies, many say the larger force behind their economic marginalization is naked discrimination. ''It used to be that state-owned enterprises had Han-only hiring policies, but these days they are more subtle,'' said Ilham Tohti, a Uighur economist who studies the job market in Xinjiang. ''They reject you after you've gone in for the interview and they've seen your face.''
Although the uneducated and unskilled have been hardest hit by unemployment, even bilingual Uighurs who graduated from Chinese universities say they have a hard time finding good jobs.
The frustration many Uighurs have is compounded by a sense that they are trapped, prevented by bigotry and strict residency rules from moving to more affluent coastal cities, and by tight passport restrictions from leaving China.
The policy, partly shaped by government fears that Uighurs who travel abroad might become radicalized and return as terrorists, cuts them off from overseas jobs, academic opportunities and family reunification. It also frustrates Uighur business owners who seek a bigger slice of China's trade with its Central Asian neighbors. ''How can we compete with the Han if we can't meet our customers in their own countries?'' asked a textile trader in Kashgar, a southern oasis city. ''Just because we are Muslims doesn't mean we're all interested in becoming terrorists.''
Government concerns about the radicalizing influence of Islam play out through a raft of religious restrictions, including strict limits on the number of Uighurs who can travel to Mecca, Saudi Arabia, for the annual pilgrimage and rules that force students and government workers to eat during the monthlong fast of Ramadan.
Fear also governs secular life. Cellphones and e-mail exchanges are frequently monitored, and even mild criticism of Chinese policies posted online can have dire consequences. In July, four Uighurs -- three Web site managers and a journalist -- accused of endangering state security were sentenced to long prison terms during closed trials.
A graduate student from the city of Khotan said he did not dare click on Web sites run by Uighur exile groups that can be reached only by evading government Internet restrictions, known as the Great Firewall. ''They will find you,'' he said of the government. ''Sometimes I feel like I'm living in a giant prison.''
Anu Kultalahti, a researcher at Amnesty International in London who interviewed witnesses of last July's violence, said the fear extended to those now living in Europe and the United States. ''It borders on paranoia,'' she said. ''If you promise them confidentiality, they laugh and say: 'That's what you think. The government already knows we're talking.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Uighur women shopped in a market in Khotan, in China's western region of Xinjiang. Riots involving the Uighur and Han ethnic groups killed nearly 200 people in the region in 2009.
 A Uighur in Kashgar. Discrimination, residency rules and passport restrictions limit the ability of Uighurs to travel abroad or in China. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Uighurs are no longer a majority in the Xinjiang region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FULL SERVICE HOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); RIOTS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (68%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); ETHNICITY (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWEST CHINA (95%); XINJIANG, CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



102 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: A Course Load For the Game of Life

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard.

 BODY:
AS a Harvard professor who teaches introductory economics, I have the delightful assignment of greeting about 700 first-year students every fall. And this year, I am sending the first of my own children off to college. Which raises these questions: What should they be learning? And what kind of foundation is needed to understand and be prepared for the modern economy?
Here is my advice for students of all ages: 
LEARN SOME ECONOMICS You knew this was coming. Perhaps I am just trying to protect my profession's market share, but I hope it is more than that.
The great economist Alfred Marshall called economics ''the study of mankind in the ordinary business of life.'' When students leave school, ''the ordinary business of life'' will be their most pressing concern. If the current moribund economy turns into a lost decade, as some economists fear it might, it will be crucial to be prepared for it.
There may be no better place than a course in introductory economics. It helps students understand the whirlwind of forces swirling around them. It develops rigorous analytic skills that are useful in a wide range of jobs. And it makes students better citizens, ready to evaluate the claims of competing politicians.
For those who have left college behind, it is not too late to learn. Pick up an economics textbook (mine would be a fine choice), and you might find yourself learning more than you imagined.
Not convinced? Even if you are a skeptic of my field, as many are, there is another, more cynical reason to study it. As the economist Joan Robinson once noted, one purpose of studying economics is to avoid being fooled by economists.
LEARN SOME STATISTICS High school mathematics curriculums spend too much time on traditional topics like Euclidean geometry and trigonometry. For a typical person, these are useful intellectual exercises but have little applicability to daily life. Students would be better served by learning more about probability and statistics.
One thing the modern computer age has given everyone is data. Lots and lots of data. There is a large leap, however, between having data and learning from it. Students need to know the potential of number-crunching, as well as its limitations. All college students are well advised to take one or more courses in statistics, at least until high schools update what they teach.
LEARN SOME FINANCE With the rise of 401(k) plans and the looming problems with Social Security, Americans are increasingly in charge of their own financial future. But are they up to the task?
Few high school students graduate with the tools needed to make smart choices. Indeed, many enter college without knowing, for instance, what stocks and bonds are, what risks and returns these assets offer, and how best to manage those risks.
The evidence of financial naivete shows up every time some company goes belly up. Whether it is Enron or Lehman Brothers, many company employees are often caught with a large fraction of their wealth in a single stock. They fail to heed the most basic lesson of finance -- that diversification provides a free lunch. It reduces risk without lowering expected return.
College is an investment with a great return. The gap between the wages of college graduates and those with only high school diplomas is now large by historical standards. If those college grads are going to manage their earnings intelligently, they need to study the fundamentals of financial decision making.
LEARN SOME PSYCHOLOGY Economists like me often pretend that people are rational. That is, with mathematical precision, people are assumed to do the best they can to achieve their goals.
For many purposes, this approach is useful. But it is only one way to view human behavior. A bit of psychology is a useful antidote to an excess of classical economics. It reveals flaws in human rationality, including your own.
This is one lesson I failed to heed when I was in college. I never took a single psychology course as an undergrad. But after the birth of behavioral economics, which infuses psychology into economics, I remedied that mistake. Several years ago, as a Harvard faculty member, I audited an introductory psychology course taught by Steven Pinker. I don't know if it made me a better economist. But it has surely made me a more humble one, and, I suspect, a better human being as well.
IGNORE ADVICE AS YOU SEE FIT Adults of all stripes have advice for the college-bound. Those leaving home and starting their freshman year should listen to it, consider it, reflect on it but ultimately follow their own instincts and passions.
The one certain thing about the future is that it is far from certain. I don't know what emerging industries will be attracting college graduates four years from now, and neither does anyone else. The next generation will shape its own economy, as the young Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg shaped ours. Those now packing up their clothes, buying textbooks and meeting roommates hold the future in their hands. Every year, when I look out over my 700 eager freshmen on that first day of class, the view gives me optimism about the path ahead.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); GEOMETRY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); MARKET SHARE (70%); BONDS (69%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (63%); US 401K PLANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



103 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Superbroke, Superfrugal, Superpower?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
In recent years, I have often said to European friends: So, you didn't like a world of too much American power? See how you like a world of too little American power -- because it is coming to a geopolitical theater near you. Yes, America has gone from being the supreme victor of World War II, with guns and butter for all, to one of two superpowers during the cold war, to the indispensable nation after winning the cold war, to ''The Frugal Superpower'' of today. Get used to it. That's our new nickname. American pacifists need not worry any more about ''wars of choice.'' We're not doing that again. We can't afford to invade Grenada today.
Ever since the onset of the Great Recession of 2008, it has been clear that the nature of being a leader -- political or corporate -- was changing in America. During most of the post-World War II era, being a leader meant, on balance, giving things away to people. Today, and for the next decade at least, being a leader in America will mean, on balance, taking things away from people. 
And there is simply no way that America's leaders, as they have to take more things away from their own voters, are not going to look to save money on foreign policy and foreign wars. Foreign and defense policy is a lagging indicator. A lot of other things get cut first. But the cuts are coming -- you can already hear the warnings from Secretary of Defense Robert Gates. And a frugal American superpower is sure to have ripple effects around the globe.
''The Frugal Superpower: America's Global Leadership in a Cash-Strapped Era'' is actually the title of a very timely new book by my tutor and friend Michael Mandelbaum, the Johns Hopkins University foreign policy expert. ''In 2008,'' Mandelbaum notes, ''all forms of government-supplied pensions and health care (including Medicaid) constituted about 4 percent of total American output.'' At present rates, and with the baby boomers soon starting to draw on Social Security and Medicare, by 2050 ''they will account for a full 18 percent of everything the United States produces.''
This -- on top of all the costs of bailing ourselves out of this recession -- ''will fundamentally transform the public life of the United States and therefore the country's foreign policy.'' For the past seven decades, in both foreign affairs and domestic policy, our defining watchword was ''more,'' argues Mandelbaum. ''The defining fact of foreign policy in the second decade of the 21st century and beyond will be 'less.' ''
When the world's only superpower gets weighed down with this much debt -- to itself and other nations -- everyone will feel it. How? Hard to predict. But all I know is that the most unique and important feature of U.S. foreign policy over the last century has been the degree to which America's diplomats and naval, air and ground forces provided global public goods -- from open seas to open trade and from containment to counterterrorism -- that benefited many others besides us. U.S. power has been the key force maintaining global stability, and providing global governance, for the last 70 years. That role will not disappear, but it will almost certainly shrink.
Great powers have retrenched before: Britain for instance. But, as Mandelbaum notes, ''When Britain could no longer provide global governance, the United States stepped in to replace it. No country now stands ready to replace the United States, so the loss to international peace and prosperity has the potential to be greater as America pulls back than when Britain did.''
After all, Europe is rich but wimpy. China is rich nationally but still dirt poor on a per capita basis and, therefore, will be compelled to remain focused inwardly and regionally. Russia, drunk on oil, can cause trouble but not project power. ''Therefore, the world will be a more disorderly and dangerous place,'' Mandelbaum predicts.
How to mitigate this trend? Mandelbaum argues for three things: First, we need to get ourselves back on a sustainable path to economic growth and reindustrialization, with whatever sacrifices, hard work and political consensus that requires. Second, we need to set priorities. We have enjoyed a century in which we could have, in foreign policy terms, both what is vital and what is desirable. For instance, I presume that with infinite men and money we can succeed in Afghanistan. But is it vital? I am sure it is desirable, but vital? Finally, we need to shore up our balance sheet and weaken that of our enemies, and the best way to do that in one move is with a much higher gasoline tax.
America is about to learn a very hard lesson: You can borrow your way to prosperity over the short run but not to geopolitical power over the long run. That requires a real and growing economic engine. And, for us, the short run is now over. There was a time when thinking seriously about American foreign policy did not require thinking seriously about economic policy. That time is also over.
An America in hock will have no hawks -- or at least none that anyone will take seriously.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (76%); MEDICARE (66%); SOCIAL SECURITY (66%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (64%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); MEDICAID (61%); BABY BOOMERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

TITLE: The Frugal Superpower: Americas Global Leadership in a Cash-Strapped Era (Book)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



104 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Single, and Singular, Women Become Her

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

 BODY:
CHERRY JONES has made a specialty lately of playing iron-willed women. She was the terrifying, unyielding Sister Aloysius in the stage version of ''Doubt,'' for which she won a Tony. More recently, for two seasons on the television series ''24,'' she was Allison Taylor, the first female president of the United States, who stood up to the Russians and the crazed dictator of Sangala and had her own daughter arrested.
On Oct. 3 she opens in the Roundabout Theater Company revival of George Bernard Shaw's ''Mrs. Warren's Profession,'' playing the title character, the self-made owner of a string of brothels whose daughter would probably like to lock her up, or at least shut her out of her life. 
At a rehearsal hall near Herald Square recently, readying for previews that were to start last Friday, she and Sally Hawkins, who plays the daughter, practiced the climactic Act IV scene in which the break between the two becomes complete. The text suggests that Mrs. Warren has over the years acquired a posh accent, which deserts her in moments of stress, but at the urging of Doug Hughes, the director, Ms. Jones played her with the cockney accent of a street-smart woman who doesn't pretend to be what she isn't. She was vulnerable and sympathetic one moment, proud and stiff-necked the next. By the end she was slowly oozing venom.
''Another unmarried woman!'' Ms. Jones said of her character after the rehearsal. ''I'm never married.'' Referring to her role in the 2006 revival of the Brian Friel play, she added, ''Except in 'Faith Healer,' and he was already dead.''
Tall and handsome, Ms. Jones, 53, was wearing pedal pushers and a gray T-shirt but had kept on her high-buttoned Mrs. Warren boots. Her manner was not unlike her outfit: forthright, unaffected, a little playful.
''There are the girls who play the Heddas, the Noras, the Cleopatras,'' she went on. ''When I was young, I was Rosalind, Rosaura in 'Life Is a Dream,' Viola in 'Twelfth Night' -- all the pants roles.''
Ms. Jones, whose breakup with the actress Sarah Paulson briefly made the tabloids, has never been shy about her sexual orientation and didn't hesitate to bring it up again.
''In part, maybe because I'm gay, there's an androgyny there that serves me well and that I think serves a lot of performers well,'' she said. ''It makes us interesting onstage.''
About her roles she added: ''I'm just not interested in the married girls, because it's usually a woman trying to get out of her marriage, which I'm sure is interesting to play, but not something that's ever appealed to me much. The unmarried girls have different struggles and different ways of dealing with them, and usually not the more cliched feminine wiles.''
She laughed and said: '' That's not to say I never want to play a married woman. But I think now, at my advanced age, I'll probably segue into widows.''
''Mrs. Warren,'' Shaw's third play, was banned for eight years before it was put on in Britain in 1902, and in 1905 it ran for only one performance in New York before it was shut down on grounds of obscenity. As Shaw pointed out in a tendentious introduction, nearly as long as the play itself, it was all right to show prostitutes onstage in those days if they died of consumption but not if they were successful businesswomen.
By today's standards the play seems pretty tame, however, and its revival history has been somewhat eclipsed by ''Major Barbara,'' which takes on the sexier-seeming issue of arms manufacture. The Irish Repertory Theater mounted a highly regarded revival of ''Mrs. Warren,'' starring Dana Ivey, in 2005, but the play was last on Broadway in 1976, with Ruth Gordon in the title role.
Mr. Hughes, the director of the new production, said that ''Mrs. Warren'' appealed to him, and seemed contemporary because it suggests that ''terribly inequitable economic conditions produce a moral hypocrisy that spreads through a society, and people begin to take refuge in an upside-down world of false values like wealth and power.''
Ms. Jones said that her first reaction upon learning that Mr. Hughes, with whom she had worked twice before, wanted to put on ''Mrs. Warren'' was, ''Oy vey.'' She had seen a production years ago that was so chilly and remote that she walked out at intermission. She put off reading the play, the way she often does. ''I think it was Judi Dench who used to get her husband to read a play for her and tell her what it was about, so I'm not alone in this malady,'' she said.
But when she finally persuaded herself to pick up Shaw's text, she was hooked after three pages: ''I thought, 'I could shop around for months or years before finding something as lively and delicious as this.' ''
What particularly grabbed her was the intensity and complexity of the relationship between Mrs. Warren and her daughter, who has been raised apart from her mother, in ignorance of her profession, and who has grown up to be a ''modern,'' university-educated woman.
''She's such a wily character,'' Ms. Jones said of Mrs. Warren. ''I kept wondering whether she has a maternal bone in her body. Does she really have maternal feelings for her daughter, or is this child just another investment she has made for her old age?''
Ms. Jones, who has no children of her own, has developed an admiring and protective relationship with Ms. Hawkins and with Adam Driver, barely a year out of Juilliard, who plays the feckless Frank Gardner. ''I look forward to watching him in the theater when I'm in my dotage,'' she said.
Much as Mr. Hughes, who directed ''Doubt,'' and its playwright, John Patrick Shanley, chose never to tell Ms. Jones whether they believed that the priest at the heart of the play was guilty of a crime, so she at one point decided she wouldn't discuss Mrs. Warren's maternal feelings, or lack of them, with Ms. Hawkins. ''But then Doug reminded me that it's not a matter of black and white but of gray,'' she said, ''and he said a wonderful thing: Perhaps she has those feelings but comes to them too late.''
This is the third time Mr. Hughes and Ms. Jones have worked together; they both won Tonys for ''Doubt.'' At the rehearsal he sometimes took her aside and they conferred quietly as if sharing secrets.
''She's so resourceful and inventive,'' Mr. Hughes said later. ''Also she has a kind of fervor about her acting that's very valuable when it's applied to a role like Mrs. Warren or Sister Aloysius. Cherry has the gift of creating a character you might not be inclined to understand. She can get behind the sometimes fantastical reasoning for the things they do.''
He added: ''I think she's one of the greatest we have. In a world where the phenomenon of the star of the stage is an endangered species, what she does and everything she stands for -- her deeply collaborative way of working onstage, her transformational power, the way that she starred in 'Doubt' and then trouped it for a year -- you have to go way back to find her equal.''
Talking about her struggle to realize Mrs. Warren, Ms. Jones said, ''I'm really not a very good actress.'' She stopped, laughed at how ridiculous that sounded and quickly added:
''Let me explain. I don't have a very analytical mind, though I do have a good imagination. I'm also not facile with language, and I don't have much irony. I'm a good Tennessee girl with a fairly literal mind. I stress too much. I pose too much. I desperately need a good director, someone like Doug, to break me down and get me to just say it -- to stop acting and let these great minds that I'm fortunate enough to play have their say.''
Correction: September 12, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the actress Cherry Jones misidentified the main female character in Shakespeare's ''Twelfth Night'' that Ms. Jones once played. The character is Viola, not Violet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cherry Jones at the American Airlines Theater, where she is in previews of ''Mrs. Warren's Profession.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); THEATER (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (75%); MARRIAGE (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (57%); US PRESIDENTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Mrs. Warren's Profession (Play)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



105 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: The End of Tenure?

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER SHEA. 
Christopher Shea writes the Brainiac blog for the Ideas section of The Boston Globe.

 BODY:
In tough economic times, it's easy to gin up anger against elites. The bashing of bankers is already so robust that the economist William Easterly has compared it, with perhaps a touch of hyperbole, to genocidal racism. But in recent months, a more unlikely privileged group has found itself in the cross hairs: tenured professors.
At a time when nearly one in 10 American workers is unemployed, here's a crew (the complaint goes) who are guaranteed jobs for life, teach only a few hours a week, routinely get entire years off, dump grading duties onto graduate students and produce ''research'' on subjects like ''Rednecks, Queers and Country Music'' or ''The Whatness of Books.'' Or maybe they stop doing research altogether (who's going to stop them?), dropping their workweek to a manageable dozen hours or so, all while making $100,000 or more a year. Ready to grab that pitchfork yet? 
That sketch -- relayed on numerous blogs and op-ed pages -- is exaggerated, but no one who has observed the academic world could call it entirely false. And it's a vision that has caught on with an American public worried about how to foot the bill for it all. The cost of a college education has risen, in real dollars, by 250 to 300 percent over the past three decades, far above the rate of inflation. Elite private colleges can cost more than $200,000 over four years. Total student-loan debt, at nearly $830 billion, recently surpassed total national credit card debt. Meanwhile, university presidents, who can make upward of $1 million annually, gravely intone that the $50,000 price tag doesn't even cover the full cost of a year's education. (Consider the balance a gift!) Then your daughter reports that her history prof is a part-time adjunct, who might be making $1,500 for a semester's work. There's something wrong with this picture.
The debate over American higher education has been reignited recently, thanks to two feisty new books. Higher Education? How Colleges Are Wasting Our Money and Failing Our Kids -- And What We Can Do About It (Times Books, $26), by Andrew Hacker, a professor emeritus of political science at Queens College, and Claudia C. Dreifus, a journalist (and contributor to the science section of The New York Times), is if anything even harsher and broader than the cartoonish sketch above. It is full of sarcastic asides like ''Say goodbye to Mr. Chips with his tattered tweed jacket; today's senior professors can afford Marc Jacobs.'' But its arguments have been praised in The Wall Street Journal and given a respectful airing on The Atlantic's Web site. They are also echoed in Mark C. Taylor's Crisis on Campus: A Bold Plan for Reforming Our Colleges and Universities (Knopf, $24), which is more measured in tone but no less devastating in its assessment of our unsustainable ''education bubble.''
The higher-ed jeremiads of the last generation came mainly from the right. But this time, it's the tenured radicals -- or at least the tenured liberals -- who are leading the charge. Hacker is a longtime contributor to The New York Review of Books and the author of the acclaimed study ''Two Nations: Black and White, Separate, Hostile, Unequal,'' while Taylor, a religion scholar who recently moved to Columbia from Williams College, has taught courses that Allan Bloom would have gagged on (''Imagologies: Media Philosophy''). And these two books arrive at a time, unlike the early 1990s, when universities are, like many students, backed into a fiscal corner. Taylor writes of walking into a meeting one day and learning that Columbia's endowment had dropped by ''at least'' 30 percent. Simply brushing off calls for reform, however strident and scattershot, may no longer be an option.
The labor system, for one thing, is clearly unjust. Tenured and tenure-track professors earn most of the money and benefits, but they're a minority at the top of a pyramid. Nearly two-thirds of all college teachers are non-tenure-track adjuncts like Matt Williams, who told Hacker and Dreifus he had taught a dozen courses at two colleges in the Akron area the previous year, earning the equivalent of about $8.50 an hour by his reckoning. It is foolish that graduate programs are pumping new Ph.D.'s into a world without decent jobs for them. If some programs were phased out, teaching loads might be raised for some on the tenure track, to the benefit of undergraduate education.
And if colleges are ever going to bend the cost curve, to borrow jargon from the health care debate, it might well be time to think about vetoing Olympic-quality athletic facilities and trimming the ranks of administrators. At Williams, a small liberal arts college renowned for teaching, 70 percent of employees do something other than teach.
But Hacker and Dreifus go much further, all but calling for an end to the role of universities in the production of knowledge. Spin off the med schools and research institutes, they say. University presidents ''should be musing about education, not angling for another center on antiterrorist technologies.'' As for the humanities, let professors do research after-hours, on top of much heavier teaching schedules. ''In other occupations, when people feel there is something they want to write, they do it on their own time and at their own expense,'' the authors declare. But it seems doubtful that, say, ''Battle Cry of Freedom,'' the acclaimed Civil War history by Princeton's James McPherson, could have been written on the weekends, or without the advance spadework of countless obscure monographs. If it is false that research invariably leads to better teaching, it is equally false to say that it never does.
Hacker and Dreifus's ideal bears more than a faint resemblance to Hacker's home institution, the public Queens College, which has a spartan budget, commuter students and a three-or-four-course teaching load per semester. Taylor, by contrast, has spent his career on the elite end of higher education, but he is no less disillusioned. He shares Hacker and Dreifus's concerns about overspecialized research and the unintended effects of tenure, which he believes blocks the way to fresh ideas. Taylor has backed away from some of the most incendiary proposals he made last year in a New York Times Op-Ed article, cheekily headlined ''End the University as We Know It'' -- an article, he reports, that drew near-universal condemnation from academics and near-universal praise from everyone else. Back then, he called for the flat-out abolition of traditional departments, to be replaced by temporary, ''problem-centered'' programs focusing on issues like Mind, Space, Time, Life and Water. Now, he more realistically suggests the creation of cross-disciplinary ''Emerging Zones.'' He thinks professors need to get over their fear of corporate partnerships and embrace efficiency-enhancing technologies.
Taylor's eyes also seem to have been opened to the world beyond Williams and Columbia. After his Op-Ed article appeared, a colleague from a cash-short California State University campus wrote to say that the ''mind-pulping'' teaching load left no room for research of any kind, even if it fell short of the five-courses-a-semester load at some community colleges. ''This is an extremely unfortunate situation,'' Taylor writes, ''because the escalating cost of higher education is driving more students to these institutions.''
Here we have the frightening subtext of all the recent hand-wringing about higher education: the widening inequality among institutions of various types and the prospects of the students who attend them. While the financial crisis has demoted Ivy League institutions from super-rich to merely rich, public universities are being gutted. It is not news that America is a land of haves and have-nots. It is news that colleges are themselves dividing into haves and have-nots; they are becoming engines of inequality. And that -- not whether some professors can afford to wear Marc Jacobs -- is the real scandal.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY AESTHETIC APPARATUS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (76%); WORK WEEK (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); STUDENT LOANS (75%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); STUDENT EXPENSES (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); WRITERS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); JOURNALISM (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); COUNTRY MUSIC (54%)

COMPANY: SA VISION CARE PTY LTD (68%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Higher Education? How Colleges Are Wasting Our Money and Failing Our Kids And What We Can Do About It (Book); Crisis on Campus: A Bold Plan for Reforming Our Colleges and Universities (Book)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



106 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Are Investors Unfair To U.S. Stock Funds?

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine.; E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
INVESTORS have been fleeing stock funds in droves, moving their money into bond portfolios, the headlines tell us. But while there is some truth in these reports, they don't provide a complete picture.
Yes, a flood of money -- more than half a trillion dollars since the beginning of last year -- has been pouring into bond funds as investors have gravitated toward less risky assets in the wake of renewed market volatility. But not all stock funds have been neglected.
So far this year, on a net basis, more than $11 billion has actually gone into funds that focus on shares of companies based in the emerging markets, according to the Investment Company Institute. And an additional $17 billion has been invested in other foreign equity funds, including those that specialize in the developed markets of Western Europe and Japan. 
In fact, upon closer examination, one major type of equity fund has been bleeding most of the assets: domestic stock portfolios.
According to the latest figures from the institute, funds that invest primarily in stocks based in the United States have had net outflows of nearly $30 billion this year, after losing nearly $40 billion in 2009.
This has some market watchers baffled.
''I certainly understand the popularity of the emerging markets,'' said Michele Gambera, head of quantitative analysis at UBS Global Asset Management in Chicago, noting that many investors favor this asset class because developing economies in countries like China and India are expected to outpace the global growth rate.
But he says it is odd that fund investors who are turning their backs on domestic stocks are simultaneously embracing foreign funds that focus on developed markets.
After all, a big reason for concern about the global economy is a slowdown in Europe, prompted by its debt crisis earlier this year. So far this year, the Morgan Stanley Capital International EAFE index (for Europe, Australasia and the Far East) is down by nearly than 7 percent, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index of blue-chip domestic shares is off by less than 1 percent.
These choices may have less to do with investors' appetite for European stocks and more with entrenched anxieties about the markets in the United States.
David R. Kotok, chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors, said the recent fund flow data validated ''the distrust of Wall Street and the stock market by the large class of the investing public that uses mutual funds.''
After the financial crisis inflicted traumas on Wall Street titans like Lehman Brothers and the American International Group, as well as industrial stalwarts like General Motors and Chrysler, some wariness of domestic equities is to be expected, Mr. Kotok said. ''Investors are having a form of financial post-traumatic stress disorder,'' he said.
To be sure, the markets have made up a significant portion of what was lost in the 2007-9 bear market, with the S.& P. 500 up more than 60 percent since the market lows of March 2009.
But Mr. Kotok said that the financial crisis was no ordinary Wall Street panic, and that domestic stocks didn't suffer just a short-term scare. Investors are in the midst of a rare 11-year span in which the S.& P. 500 has lost ground, thanks to not just one but two bear markets.
As a result, he said, ''the scars are deep, and it may take a decade for investors to fully recover.''
There is a precedent for such a slow recovery in investor trust.
''We're basically seeing some parallels to what happened after the back-to-back bear markets of 1969-70 and 1973-74,'' said James B. Stack, a market historian and editor of the InvesTech Market Analyst newsletter in Whitefish, Mont. ''What we saw as a consequence was an outflow of money from stock funds for the remainder of the decade of the 1970s.''
In fact, even though stocks experienced a strong bull run from 1982 to 1987, it really wasn't until the early 1990s when domestic stock funds began to see huge amounts of new money flow in.
This time, the single-minded devotion that investors once had for domestic stocks may never return. ''I can remember being on a panel at an investment conference in 1998 when an investor came to the mike and asked, 'Why should I bother owning anything besides an S.& P. 500 fund?''' said Kevin McDevitt, a Morningstar fund analyst. ''That was a fairly common view at the time.''
But Mr. McDevitt said that another factor driving money away from domestic stocks -- and toward foreign equities -- was the growing belief among investors that they had been underexposed to foreign stocks for far too long.
At the end of the 1990s, for example, many financial planners were recommending that investors keep a minority of their stock portfolios in foreign shares -- say, 10 to 20 percent. But today, it is fairly common for advisers to recommend keeping as much as a third or half of one's equity stake in overseas shares and funds.
THAT may be, but Mike Scarborough, president of Scarborough Capital Management in Annapolis, Md., thinks that investors aren't necessarily acting because of a rational shift in strategy. Many people are probably looking in the rearview mirror and seeing better returns overseas than in the domestic market over the past 5 and 10 years.
He added that if the poor performance of the S.& P. 500 persisted this year, it might be a very long time before domestic stocks fully regain their reputation.
''It's like car buyers' perceptions of American autos,'' Mr. Scarborough said. Despite recent studies showing improvements in quality among vehicles made in the United States, ''some people treat American cars like it was still 1985,'' he said.
He added: ''I think without question what happened to Detroit could happen to Wall Street.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); BONDS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (85%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (79%); BOND FUNDS (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); CUMBERLAND ADVISORS (51%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (76%); INDIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



107 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Prospering in a Recession, The Open Bucks a Trend

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Nearly every sports team and tournament has been hit by the slowdown in corporate and consumer spending during the past two years. Then there is the United States Open, which continues to reel in record crowds, high-end sponsors, and hefty merchandise and food sales.
The Open has succeeded like few other sporting events because of an unusual brew of timing, location and focus. The event is two weeks long, which gives fans plenty of dates to attend. Overlapping with the Labor Day weekend, it has turned into the de facto end of summer for sports fans, including many from overseas who in recent years have taken advantage of a weak dollar to visit New York. 
The Open has also succeeded because of the recession. As corporate sponsors -- who make up the biggest chunk of the event's revenue -- have cut their marketing budgets, they have focused their spending on fewer but more trusted events.
''It hits everything at the right time,'' said Robert A. Boland, who teaches at the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. ''The recession forced companies to review what they value, and the U.S. Open is one of the things companies value.''
Despite a potential washout from Hurricane Earl, the Open is on pace to at least match last year's record attendance, when 721,059 fans showed up to 26 sessions. The Open has set attendance records four of the past five years, and ticket prices rose only slightly, depending on the seats.
All 140 suites sold out four months ago, the earliest ever, and reservations for hospitality spaces are also fully booked. In all, 152 companies have reserved spaces for one or more days. More than 260,000 hamburgers will be served at this year's Open, according to the head chef, Michael Lockard, and thousands of oversize Wilson tennis balls are sold every day, according to the United States Tennis Association.
This year, the Open also renewed all of its main sponsorships with companies that include Citizen, Heineken and Wilson. The Open also added six new sponsors, including Esurance, Starwood Hotels, Panasonic and Mercedes-Benz, which replaced Lexus.
Net sponsorship revenue rose 6 percent this year to more than $60 million, a record. The Open did this without raising its sponsorship prices, said Harlan Stone, the chief business and marketing officer at the U.S.T.A., which hosts the event. Stone said he expected sponsorships to grow further in 2011.
''Many business leaders might be reducing the overall number of events they sponsor, but instead are focusing on the best events and doing more with fewer events, and we're the beneficiary of that trend,'' Stone said.
Over all, the United States Open generates about $120 million, about 80 percent of the U.S.T.A.'s revenue.
Like many other sponsors, Esurance chose to advertise at the Open because the event is so well attended, but also because it is watched on television by relatively wealthier consumers. The company, which sells car insurance, has typically attracted younger consumers who take care of their finances online.
But Esurance wanted to reach older Americans who have more recently started using the Internet to take care of their household needs. When Massachusetts Mutual ended its sponsorship, the Open approached Esurance, which signed on after being promised that it would be one of the six companies with courtside signs at Arthur Ashe Stadium.
''For us, it's a good way to reach new audiences,'' said Darren Howard, the vice president for marketing of Esurance, which previously took sponsorships for teams in San Francisco, where the company has its headquarters. ''Tennis was a great sport to reach different audiences.''
In some ways, the Open has become so large that it has overshadowed the rest of the tennis calendar. The U.S. Open Series, a string of tournaments leading to the Open in New York, has helped create some drama. Attendance at the ATP World Tour events has also risen, but television viewership is not as strong.
''What tennis perhaps lacks domestically is the public's consciousness the other 50 weeks of the year,'' said Paul Swangard, the managing director of the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the University of Oregon School of Business. ''When the tour travels to Shanghai, I don't think the sport gets the same kind of lift.''
And despite the success of the Open, event organizers are always at the mercy of the weather, player injuries and specific matchups. Attendance dipped by more than 20,000 fans in 2006 because of inclement weather.
The lack of a top-ranked American man in the tournament, Andy Roddick's loss and the absence of Serena Williams, the No. 1-ranked woman, have hurt ticket resales. The average resale price of tickets for second-round matches on Day 4 of the tournament fell 39 percent this year compared with last year, according to FanSnap.com, which monitors activity on dozens of online ticket resellers.
''Prices are down across the board, and the Roddick loss looks to be at least part of it,'' said Christian Anderson, a spokesman for FanSnap. ''As the Americans go, so too do U.S. Open tickets.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about the business success of the United States Open misstated the name of a division at New York University. It is the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management -- not the Robert Preston Tisch Center.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fans and sponsors are spending heavily at the U.S. Open. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); RECESSION (90%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); TENNIS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); TRENDS (89%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); US DOLLAR (69%); BUDGET CUTS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



108 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Tempered Storm Scrapes Coast of New England

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH and KATIE ZEZIMA; Abby Goodnough reported from Chatham, Mass., and Katie Zezima from Nantucket, Mass.

 BODY:
CHATHAM, Mass. -- A diminished Tropical Storm Earl left barely a hint of damage after slapping at Nantucket and the outer reaches of Cape Cod early Saturday, allowing coastal vacationers and business owners to exhale as a blue-sky Labor Day weekend got under way.
A hobbled version of the fearsome Category 4 hurricane it had once been, the storm roiled surf, caused minor street flooding and left about 1,800 customers without power overnight as it passed about 90 miles south of Nantucket. By morning, as the storm reached Nova Scotia, electricity had been restored to all but about 300 homes, and towns along the cape were assessing how much holiday business they had lost from the originally grim forecast. 
''We are fortunate that Mother Nature cooperated,'' Gov. Deval Patrick said as he headed for breakfast at Sandi's Diner here. ''The sun is out, and the cape is open for business.''
In the end, Nantucket, which had expected the worst of the storm, got little more than two inches of rain and peak wind gusts of 54 miles per hour. The highest gust measured in the region was 60 m.p.h. over Nantucket Sound around 2:20 a.m., said William Babcock, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Taunton, Mass.
The largest amount of rain, 6.2 inches, fell in Edgartown, Mass., on Martha's Vineyard. By late morning, the storm had regained hurricane strength and made landfall in Nova Scotia, said Bill Appleby, a meteorologist with the Canadian Hurricane Centre.
Mr. Appleby said that roughly 130,000 households and businesses in Nova Scotia had lost power due to the storm.
A number of factors combined to sap the storm of its strength, including increasing upper-level winds that ''acted like a pair of hedge clippers,'' Mr. Babcock said, and the colder waters it encountered once it got north of the Gulf Stream.
''It lost its source of fuel and was running on batteries and burned itself out,'' he said. ''It was still a respectable storm when it passed by, but more the equivalent of a winter northeaster.''
In a conference call with reporters Saturday, Craig Fugate, administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, said he was ''ecstatic'' that the storm had not wreaked havoc on the Eastern seaboard but warned that other threats could be on the horizon.
''We're still 87 days away from the end of hurricane season, and September historically is the peak month,'' he said.
Wendy Norcross, executive director of the Cape Cod Chamber of Commerce, estimated that shops and restaurants here lost about 10 percent of their normal business in the days before the storm, as many visitors left early and others canceled plans to come for the long weekend.
''We're hoping with this beautiful sunny sky and the all-clear message that we can recoup some of that,'' she said. ''It's an important weekend for us not to lose the business.''
In Chatham, a town of handsome clapboard and shingle homes and expansive beaches at the outer elbow of Cape Cod, shopkeepers hastily removed boards from their windows on Saturday morning as visitors lined up outside favorite breakfast haunts.
Mr. Patrick warned that rip currents would remain strong all weekend, and some beaches were considering staying closed for the weekend. But people were already streaming onto the sand along the southern coast of Cape Cod on Saturday morning, including one man at Seagull Beach in West Yarmouth who was shoveling up seaweed that had washed ashore overnight to use in his garden.
On Nantucket, the biggest problem appeared to be greater erosion of beaches and bluffs that had already taken a beating from a succession of storms last winter.
''We got out of this unscathed,'' said Gregg Tivnan, the island's assistant town manager. ''We were very lucky; the weather forecasters couldn't have been more wrong.''
Mark Donato, owner of Siasconset Market on Nantucket, said he was worried that business would not pick up this weekend because so many people had abandoned the island before the storm.
''We did great business yesterday with people preparing,'' he said. ''Now I'm seeing the after-effects of people not coming because of the hurricane.''
Mr. Donato, who had but a trickle of customers on Saturday morning, added, ''It's a major disappointment after an already slow economy to have a hurricane happen on a three-day holiday weekend.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After the storm passed, James Martin, left, and Patrick Doherty removed plywood from windows in Chatham.
 Lights for television cameras glowed late Friday on a beach in Chatham, Mass., that attracted Tropical Storm Earl watchers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); METEOROLOGY (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); HURRICANES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); US LABOR DAY (77%); RESTAURANTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (73%); CRAIG FUGATE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (88%) NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



109 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Freedom's Just Another Word

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
AMONG the few scraps of news to emerge from Barack Obama's vacation was the anecdote of a Martha's Vineyard bookseller handing him an advance copy of Jonathan Franzen's new novel, ''Freedom.'' The book has since rocketed up the Amazon best-seller list, powered by reviews even more ecstatic than those for Franzen's last novel, ''The Corrections.'' But I doubt that the president, a fine writer who draws sustenance from great American writers, has read ''Freedom'' yet. If he had, he never would have delivered that bloodless speech on Tuesday night. 
What was so grievously missing from Obama's address was any feeling for what has happened to our country during the seven-and-a-half-year war whose ''end'' he was marking. That legacy of anger and grief is what ''Freedom'' mainlines to its readers. In chronicling one Midwestern family as it migrates from St. Paul to Washington during the 9/11 decade, Franzen does for our traumatic time what Tom Wolfe's ''The Bonfire of the Vanities'' did for the cartoonish go-go 1980s. Or perhaps, more pertinently, what ''The Great Gatsby'' did for the ominous boom of the 1920s. The heady intoxication of freedom is everywhere in ''Freedom,'' from extramarital sexual couplings to the consumer nirvana of the iPod to Operation Iraqi Freedom itself. Yet most everyone, regardless of age or calling or politics, is at war -- not with terrorists, but with depression, with their consciences and with one another.
This mood has not lifted and may be thickening as we trudge toward Year 10 in Afghanistan. But Obama only paid it lip service. It's a mystery why a candidate so attuned to the nation's pulse, most especially on the matter of war, has grown tone deaf in office. On Tuesday, Obama asked the country to turn the page on Iraq as if that were as easy as, say, voting for him in 2008. His brief rhetorical pivot from the war to the economy only raised the question of why the crisis of joblessness has not merited a prime-time Oval Office speech of its own.
That Obama did consider Iraq worthy of that distinction -- one heretofore shared only by the BP oil spill -- was hardly justified by his tepid pronouncements of progress (''credible elections that drew a strong turnout'') or his tidy homilies about the war's impact. ''Our unity at home was tested,'' he said, as if all those bygones were now bygones and all the toxins unleashed by this fiasco had miraculously evaporated once we drew down to 50,000 theoretically non-combat troops.
Americans are less forgiving. In recent polls, 60 percent of those surveyed thought the war in Iraq was a mistake, 70 percent thought it wasn't worth American lives, and only a quarter believed it made us safer from terrorism. This sour judgment is entirely reality-based. The war failed in all its stated missions except the toppling of Saddam Hussein.
While we were distracted searching for Iraq's nonexistent weapons of mass destruction, Iran began revving up its actual nuclear program and Osama bin Laden and his fanatics ran free to regroup in Afghanistan and Pakistan. We handed Al Qaeda a propaganda coup by sacrificing America's signature values on the waterboard. We disseminated untold billions of taxpayers' dollars from Baghdad's Green Zone, much of it cycled corruptly through well-connected American companies on no-bid contracts, yet Iraq still doesn't have reliable electricity or trustworthy security. Iraq's ''example of freedom,'' as President Bush referred to his project in nation building and democracy promotion, did not inspire other states in the Middle East to emulate it. It only perpetuated the Israeli-Palestinian logjam it was supposed to help relieve.
For this sad record, more than 4,400 Americans and some 100,000 Iraqis (a conservative estimate) paid with their lives. Some 32,000 Americans were wounded, and at least two million Iraqis, representing much of the nation's most valuable human capital, went into exile. The war's official cost to U.S. taxpayers is now at $750 billion.
Of all the commentators on the debacle, few speak with more eloquence or credibility than Andrew Bacevich, a professor of history and international relations at Boston University who as a West Point-trained officer served in Vietnam and the first gulf war and whose son, also an Army officer, was killed in Iraq in 2007. Writing in The New Republic after Obama's speech, he decimated many of the war's lingering myths, starting with the fallacy, reignited by the hawks taking a preposterous victory lap last week, that ''the surge'' did anything other than stanch the bleeding from the catastrophic American blundering that preceded it. As Bacevich concluded: ''The surge, now remembered as an epic feat of arms, functions chiefly as a smokescreen, obscuring a vast panorama of recklessness, miscalculation and waste that politicians, generals, and sundry warmongers are keen to forget.''
Bacevich also wrote that ''common decency demands that we reflect on all that has occurred in bringing us to this moment.'' Americans' common future demands it too. The war's corrosive effect on the home front is no less egregious than its undermining of our image and national security interests abroad. As the Pentagon rebrands Operation Iraqi Freedom as Operation New Dawn -- a ''name suggesting a skin cream or dishwashing liquid,'' Bacevich aptly writes -- the whitewashing of our recent history is well under way. The price will be to keep repeating it.
We can't afford to forget now that the single biggest legacy of the Iraq war at home was to codify the illusion that Americans can have it all at no cost. We willed ourselves to believe Paul Wolfowitz when he made the absurd prediction that Iraq's oil wealth would foot America's post-invasion bills. We were delighted to accept tax cuts, borrow other countries' money, and run up the federal deficit long after the lure of a self-financing war was unmasked as a hoax. The cultural synergy between the heedless irresponsibility we practiced in Iraq and our economic collapse at home could not be more naked. The housing bubble, inflated by no-money-down mortgage holders on Main Street and high-risk gamblers on Wall Street, was fueled by the same greedy disregard for the laws of fiscal gravity that governed the fight-now-pay-later war.
Our attitude toward the war's human cost was no less cavalier. We were all too content to let a volunteer army fight our battles out of sight and out of mind, on a fictional pretext yoked to a military strategy premised on a cakewalk. For too long we looked the other way as the coffins arrived in Dover off camera in the shroud of night, as the maimed endured inhumane treatment in military hospitals at home, and as the Iraqi refugees who aided Operation Iraqi Freedom at their own peril were denied the freedom to seek a safe haven in our country.
Both President Obama and Glenn Beck, in his ''Restoring Honor'' rally in Washington last weekend, were fulsome in their praise of the troops, as well they should have been. But the disconnect between the civilian public, including the war's die-hard advocates on the right, and those doing the fighting remains as large today as ever. As one Iraq war vet e-mailed to me after hearing Beck's patriotic sermons: ''What does gathering in D.C. do for the troops?'' He was appalled at the self-regard of those who thought their jingoistic rally would help returning troops abandoned by the military's ''criminally poor mental health care'' or save any soldier who was ''two seconds away from getting his leg blown off by an I.E.D.''
The other American casualties of Iraq include the credibility of both political parties, neither of which strenuously questioned the rush to war and both of which are still haunted by that failure, and of the news media, which barely challenged the White House's propaganda about Saddam's imminent mushroom clouds. Many pundits, quite a few of them liberals, stoked the war fever as well. Some eventually acknowledged getting it wrong, though in most cases they stopped short of apologizing for their failures of judgment and their abdication of journalistic skepticism about the government's case for war.
Even now those think-tank types who kept seeing light at the end of the Iraqi tunnel are ubiquitous on television and op-ed pages making similar stay-the-course prognostications about Afghanistan. Their embarrassing track records may have temporarily vanished into the great American memory hole, but actions do have consequences, and there must be an accounting. America does have a soul, and, as Franzen so powerfully dramatizes in ''Freedom,'' when that soul is violated, we are paralyzed until we set it right.
And yet here we are, slouching toward yet another 9/11 anniversary, still waiting for a correction, with even our president, an eloquent Iraq war opponent, slipping into denial. Of all the pro forma passages in Obama's speech, perhaps the most jarring was his entreaty that Iraq's leaders ''move forward with a sense of urgency to form an inclusive government that is just, representative and accountable.'' He might as well have been talking about the poisonous political deadlock in Washington. At that moment, there was no escaping the tragic fact that instead of bringing American-style democracy and freedom to Iraq, the costly war we fought there has, if anything, brought the bitter taste of Iraq's dysfunction to America.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TERRORISM (67%); OIL SPILLS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (72%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



110 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Pitch Permanent Tax Credit

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As part of his pre-election push to spur the slumping economy and his party, President Obama this week will ask Congress to increase and permanently extend a popular but costly tax credit for businesses' research expenses, and to pay for it by closing other corporate tax breaks, according to administration officials.
Mr. Obama is planning to outline the $100 billion proposal on Wednesday in a speech in Cleveland on the economy. The White House chose the venue partly to draw a contrast with a recent economic address there by Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader who would probably become House speaker should his party win a majority in November. 
Besides seeking a permanent research credit, Mr. Obama will call for expanding the simpler of two credit options available to businesses. He would increase that to 17 percent from 14 percent.
The research credit, which has existed in some form since 1981, has strong bipartisan and business support. Yet the prospects for Mr. Obama's proposal are unclear. Congress returns from a break in mid-September but will be in session only a few weeks before leaving for midterm election campaigning. Also, Republicans do not want to give Democrats boasting rights to legislative victories, even for a proposal like this one, which Republicans have long espoused.
And there is the issue of the credit's cost. It has always been passed as a temporary credit because of the revenue losses; Congress has extended it 13 times for as little as six months, and the uncertainty has long vexed businesses. It lapsed after 2009, and a proposal to renew it for this year is pending in the Senate.
Making the credit permanent would cost an estimated $85 billion over 10 years, and expanding it would cost $15 billion more, according to the administration.
Doing so, however, would end one of the longest-running budget gimmicks in town: Presidents and Congresses of both parties have called for a permanent extension but ultimately kept it temporary to reduce deficit projections. Based on that history, the Treasury would probably give up as much as $100 billion in the coming decade in any case.
Under Democrats' pay-as-you-go law, however, the full 10-year cost would have to be offset by other savings. Mr. Obama will propose that Congress adopt some of the provisions proposed in his annual budget to close corporate tax loopholes.
Most of them, which would apply to multinational corporations' overseas income and to oil and gas companies, among others, have languished in Congress because of business opposition. In effect, the administration is asking business groups and their Republican allies to choose at a time of high deficits which breaks they prefer; the research credit has long been a priority.
A group of corporations recently told Senate leaders they would accept an end to some of the tax breaks protecting overseas profits in return for other incentives, notably the research credit.
''The R&D tax credit creates high-wage American jobs,'' the United States Chamber of Commerce says on its Web site, because at least 70 percent of the tax benefits are attributable to salaries for those doing the research, and only research done in the United States is eligible.
Mr. Obama, in his weekly address on Saturday, said more must be done to help the middle class and ''to accelerate job creation.''
''The steps we have taken to date have stopped the bleeding,'' he said, by using infrastructure investments, subsidies to states to retain teachers and first responders, tax cuts and loans for small business.
''We also ended a tax loophole that encouraged companies to create jobs overseas,'' he added. ''Instead, I'm fighting to pass a law to provide tax breaks to the folks who create jobs right here in America.''
Other stimulus proposals that Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats are pushing are aimed at helping small-business owners, a favorite constituency for both parties at election time. The research credit mostly benefits large corporations.
The Government Accountability Office, which does research for Congress, said that 549 corporations with receipts exceeding $1 billion claimed more than half of the net $6 billion value of the credit in 2005, the last year for which data was available.
Critics argue that businesses get tax breaks for research they would do anyway, and the credit has been a subject of disputes between corporations and the I.R.S.
The G.A.O. proposed reforms to simplify the credit and improve the incentive for businesses to do new research. Some of the ideas are reflected in the changes that Mr. Obama will propose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



111 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Border News

 BODY:
A nonpartisan study on illegal immigrants in the United States came out Wednesday. Here is the gist: Unauthorized immigration peaked three years ago, and is sharply receding. It is declining all over, but especially in housing-bust states like Florida, Nevada and Virginia. 
Harsher enforcement probably has something to do with it. But so does the Great Recession, and while the total population of illegal immigrants has fallen somewhat, to about 11 million, there is no exodus. They are not flooding in as much, but they are not flooding out.
These striking findings, from the Pew Hispanic Center, suggest that it is probably time to focus on assimilating the people who are here and show no signs of leaving. It also argues for fixing immigration, so that when the economy roars to life again, we will be ready to handle a new influx that is lawful, orderly and above-ground.
But first we would have to get over our fixation on the southern border, a hard thing to expect at a time when anxieties there have erupted into a raging panic that gladdens the hearts of politicians on the right.
This is the year that Congress passed in a flash a $600 million border-security bill, which President Obama immediately signed. The homeland security secretary just announced that Predator drones, our eyes in the sky above Afghanistan, were guarding the line from San Diego to Brownsville, too.
It isn't just the feds. Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona signed the country's harshest anti-immigrant bill and went to the White House to lecture the president about border control. She raised the emotional pitch with lurid stories of beheadings in the desert. Her fellow Arizona politicians said the next step was to rewrite state laws and the Constitution to keep pregnant aliens from coming over to spawn terrorist babies on our soil. Senator John McCain won a tough primary by creating yet another new, tougher version of himself, who promised to complete the danged fence.
These Arizonans are selling a vision of border chaos and violence disconnected from reality. If it is about drug wars, someone tell the mayors and the sheriffs of border cities, where violent crime is down. Some of America's safest cities are in border states. Desert decapitators are a myth, unless Governor Brewer, who ducked questions about them last week, has evidence she is not sharing.
The border crackdown has been therapy for a nation spooked. But for solving the real problems of immigration, not so much. The terror babies are a fiction, but millions of unauthorized workers are not. At some point the economy will recover. The demand for immigrant labor will heat up, and illegal crossings will rise. Companies will go begging for legal workers. The drones and the boots and the fences will deter many new migrants, but not all. Eleven million people will still be living and working outside the law.
And the country will learn that it spent billions at the border to solve a problem a sealed border won't fix.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); TERRORISM (70%); VIOLENT CRIME (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (67%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (65%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); JAN BREWER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



112 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Jobs and Politics

 BODY:
The August employment report, released Friday, was not as bad as economists had forecast. Unfortunately, exceeding low expectations and making progress are not the same thing. Yet, speaking from the Rose Garden after the report was released, President Obama said the economy was moving in a ''positive direction.''
The economy lost 54,000 jobs in August, far fewer than forecast. The private sector added 67,000 jobs -- and tallies for the past two months were revised upward -- while the government sector, mostly the Census, shed 121,000 employees. Dig into the numbers, however, and both sectors are in deep trouble. 
Growth in private jobs has slowed markedly this year, from a monthly average of 119,000 in the first four months to 72,000 jobs on average in the past four months. That is not nearly enough to employ new workers, let alone make a dent in the ranks of the unemployed. Worse, most of the new jobs in August were in health care and food service, where very low-paying jobs -- like home care aides and fast-food workers -- are concentrated. A job is better than no job, but jobs that do not amount to a living will not lift the economy.
At the same time, government work is hemorrhaging. Many laid-off Census workers have nowhere to go but the unemployment line, since a slowing private sector cannot absorb them. In addition, states and local governments shed 10,000 more employees in August, for a total of 282,000 lost jobs in the past two years. Rather than supporting the economy in time of trouble, states and localities are a drag on growth.
Nor can working Americans provide much momentum. Since May, employers have not added any time to the workweek, now 34.2 hours on average. As hours have stalled, so has weekly wage growth. Data in the August report suggests that the average paycheck, now $774.97 a week, is being stretched to support more family members: graduates who cannot find work, unemployed relatives whose jobless benefits have expired, and underemployed workers who are working part time but need full-time work.
In all, the economy is still coming up short by nearly 11 million jobs. The unemployment rate, persistently high at 9.6 percent in August, is down from a peak of 10.1 percent last October. But the decline has come almost entirely because of people dropping out of the work force -- or not entering -- because there are no jobs to be had.
This week, the Obama administration is expected to unveil a plan for jobs, but early word indicates that it will be a political response designed to campaign specifications, and not to the scale of the problem.
Administration officials are said to be considering a package centered on business tax cuts, because those are presumably more palatable to Republicans -- and to Democrats who are afraid of losing to Republicans and cannot think of a better response than to mimic their ideas.
The administration seems to have forgotten that the Republicans who run the show in Congress are happy to oppose their own ideas if Mr. Obama embraces them. New tax cuts, especially in place of spending, are also dubious policy. When it comes to spurring growth, direct spending to increase demand in the economy is more effective than most tax cuts.
One idea said to be on the table, suspending the employer share of the payroll tax, increases growth by $1.23 for every dollar in forgone revenue, while a dollar of federal spending for work-share programs adds $1.69 worth of growth. Mr. Obama has also floated the idea of new infrastructure projects and clean-energy jobs. A large national endeavor is needed to provide employment over the many years it will take to revive the labor market and to begin to build the foundation for sustained economic growth. That could be largely paid for by letting the Bush tax cuts expire for wealthy Americans at year's end, as they were originally intended to do and as Mr. Obama has called for.
But a reasonable trade-off along those lines seems out of reach. There is no sign that the Republicans will cooperate with anything Mr. Obama wants. And the Republicans have spooked Democrats into talking about tax cuts on the campaign trail.
Mr. Obama has tried before to offer deficit reduction initiatives for more cooperation on job creation. His budget proposal earlier this year to freeze many categories of discretionary spending was a failed attempt to win Republican support for a broad jobs bill last spring.
Aside from reluctant and belated extensions of jobless benefits, the only significant jobs measures passed this year were a $13 billion hiring credit for employers and $26 billion in aid to states. A large part of the hiring tax credit is likely to have gone to employers who would have hired new workers anyway. The state aid was cut nearly in half before it got through Congress.
If this dynamic does not change, the danger to the economy will not come only from a stalled job market, but from the stalled politics of Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); CENSUS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); WORK WEEK (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



113 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: The Poodle Speaks

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Even in the thick of a historical tragedy, Tony Blair never seemed like a Shakespearean character.
He's too rabbity brisk, too doggedly modern. The most proficient spinner since Rumpelstiltskin lacks introspection. The self-described ''manipulator'' is still in denial about being manipulated.
The Economist's review of ''A Journey,'' the new autobiography of the former British prime minister, says it sounds less like Disraeli and Churchill and more like ''the memoirs of a transatlantic business tycoon.'' 
Yet in the section on Iraq, Blair loses his C.E.O. fluency and engages in tortured arguments, including one on how many people really died in the war, and does a Shylock lament.
He says he does not regret serving as the voice for W.'s gut when the inexperienced American princeling galloped into war with Iraq. As for ''the nightmare that unfolded'' -- giving the lie to all their faux rationales and glib promises -- Tony wants everyone to know he has feelings.
''Do they really suppose I don't care, don't feel, don't regret with every fibre of my being the loss of those who died?'' he asks of his critics.
In Iraq, marking the transition to the ''post-combat mission'' for American troops, Defense Secretary Robert Gates was eloquent with an economy of words.
Asked by a reporter if Iraq would have to be a democratic state for the war to benefit U.S. national security, Gates cut to core: ''The problem with this war for, I think, many Americans is that the premise on which we justified going to war proved not to be valid -- that is, Saddam having weapons of mass destruction.'' He added, candidly: ''It will always be clouded by how it began.''
Iraq will be ''a work in progress for a long time,'' Gates said, and, ''how it all weighs in the balance over time, I think remains to be seen.''
Blair writes that he thought he was right and that he and W. rid the world of a tyrant. But he winds up with a bitter anecdote: ''I still keep in my desk a letter from an Iraqi woman who came to see me before the war began. She told me of the appalling torture and death her family had experienced having fallen foul of Saddam's son. She begged me to act. After the fall of Saddam she returned to Iraq. She was murdered by sectarians a few months later. What would she say to me now?''
There is no apology, but Blair sounds like a man with a guilty conscience.
He concedes that the invasion of Iraq was more about symbols than immediate security, about sending ''a message of total clarity to the world,'' after 9/11, that defying the will of the international community would no longer be tolerated.
In other words, Osama bin Laden had emasculated America, and America had to hit back, and did so against a country that had nothing to do with him or 9/11.
Blair did not want to be W.'s peripheral poodle. He wanted to ''stand tall internationally'' with Britain's main ally and not ''wet our knickers,'' to use a Blair phrase, when the going got tough (or delusional).
Blair fantasized that Saddam might someday give W.M.D. to terrorists. This, even though the dictator didn't like terrorists because they were impossible to control, and even though, as Blair admits, (the secular) Saddam and (the fundamentalist) Osama were on opposite sides. (When Saudi Arabia felt threatened by Saddam's invasion of Kuwait, Osama offered to fight the Iraqi dictator.)
It is criminally naive, given the billions spent on intelligence, that Blair and W. muffed the postwar planning because they never perceived what Blair now acknowledges as ''the true threat'': outside interference by Al Qaeda and Iran. So the reasoning of the man known in England as Phony Tony or Bliar amounts to this: They had to invade Iraq because Saddam could hypothetically hook up with Al Qaeda. But they didn't properly prepare for the insurgency because they knew that Saddam had no link to Al Qaeda.
He knew Dick Cheney had a grandiose plan to remake the world and no patience for ''namby-pamby peacenikery.''
''He would have worked through the whole lot, Iraq, Syria, Iran,'' as well as ''Hezbollah, Hamas, etc.,'' Blair writes of Cheney, adding: ''He was for hard, hard power. No ifs, no buts, no maybes. We're coming after you, so change or be changed.''
The religious Blair fancied himself a conviction politician who had intervened for good in Kosovo and Sierra Leone and would do so again in Iraq. So he did not, as he said others did, ''reach for the garlic and crucifixes'' when Dick hatched his sulfurous schemes.
If he had challenged W. and Cheney instead of enabling them, Blair might have stopped the farcical rush to war. Instead, he became the midwife for a weaker Iraq that is no longer a counterweight to Iran -- which actually is a nuclear threat -- and that seems doomed to be run one day by another brutal strongman.
Maybe Blair should have realized the destructive Oedipal path W. was on. At their first meeting at Camp David, W. screened ''Meet the Parents.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); ROBERT M GATES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



114 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1974 words

HEADLINE: God and Politics, Together Again

BYLINE: By SAM TANENHAUS

 BODY:
IT took only a day for a massive exercise in unity to become the latest salvo in the culture wars.
The rally at the Lincoln Memorial on Saturday, Aug. 28, organized by Glenn Beck and held on the 47th anniversary of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s ''I Have a Dream'' speech, was billed as a strictly religious affair, untainted by any political agenda.
In keeping with the spiritual message, Mr. Beck omitted his customary attacks on President Obama and Congressional Democrats, who he has implied, more than once, are socialists (or worse) in disguise.
But in an interview taped after the event and shown the next day on Fox News, which also broadcasts his popular nightly program, Mr. Beck, a Mormon, was back on the attack, this time criticizing Mr. Obama's religious views. 
''He is a guy who understands the world through liberation theology, which is oppressor and victim,'' Mr. Beck said, adding, ''People aren't recognizing his version of Christianity.''
The episode was further evidence that Mr. Obama, who once looked as if he might be able to end the nation's ideological polarization, has instead become engulfed in it, just like his two predecessors, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton.
To an early supporter like the writer Andrew Sullivan, Mr. Obama's religious journey offered possible deliverance from decades of ideological strife. ''He was brought up in a nonreligious home and converted to Christianity as an adult,'' Mr. Sullivan observed in a celebrated essay in the December 2007 issue of The Atlantic. ''But -- critically -- he is not born-again. His faith, at once real and measured, hot and cool -- lives at the center of the American religious experience.''
In retrospect the idea seems not only mistaken, but perhaps misbegotten, for it was premised on a misreading of America's ideological warfare, in particular the influence of evangelical religion on the tenor of American politics.
Mr. Obama's religious views, real or imagined, have been a matter of controversy for some time. To cite the most obvious example, the major crisis of his presidential candidacy grew out of his close relationship with the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, a prominent adherent of liberation theology, with its sometimes militant preachments. It was the mounting criticism of Mr. Obama that prompted his historic address in Philadelphia, instantly known as ''the race speech,'' though in places it resembled a sermon.
''In the end, then, what is called for is nothing more, and nothing less, than what all the world's great religions demand -- that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Let us be our brother's keeper, Scripture tells us. Let us be our sister's keeper. Let us find that common stake we all have in one another, and let our politics reflect that spirit as well.''
As president, Mr. Obama has exhibited a more cerebral religious temper -- the ''measured'' faith praised by Mr. Sullivan. But it too appears to have alienated, or at least confused, much of the electorate, not just Mr. Beck. According to poll results released in mid-August by the Pew Research Center, only a third of those interviewed were aware that Mr. Obama is a practicing Christian -- a considerably smaller percentage than in 2008, when Mr. Obama was far less known to the general public -- and today a higher percentage think he's a Muslim than did during the presidential election.
What, exactly, is his brand of Christianity? If it is not hard to recognize, neither is it easily defined, to judge at least by his various discussions of the subject. There is, for instance, the ''Call to Renewal'' speechhe gave in Washington in 2006, in which he urged believers, whatever their faith, to question the morality of ''a trillion dollars being taken out of social programs to go to a handful of folks who don't need and weren't even asking for it.''
This is not liberation theology, with its assertion that God favors the oppressed, but it does echo the Social Gospel, the movement that a century ago called for Christianity to ''add its moral force to the social and economic forces making for a nobler organization of society'' with churches actively ameliorating ''the burden of poverty,'' in the words of the movement's leader, Walter Rauschenbusch.
And yet Mr. Obama is also an admirer of Reinhold Niebuhr, the theologian who rejected what he considered the naive moralism of the Social Gospel. From Niebuhr, Mr. Obama has said, he got the message ''that there's serious evil in the world, and hardship and pain. And we should be humble and modest in our belief we can eliminate those things.''
The tension between these two religious ideas -- one wedded to progress, the other mindful of the limits of worldly activism -- reflects the broader tension in Mr. Obama's liberalism, itself divided between an enthusiasm for bold policy initiatives and a pragmatic understanding that some things can't be fixed or even much changed through politics.
There is nothing unusual in this balance. It is the same one that any number of presidents, Republican and Democrat alike, have tried to maintain, whether reformers on the left like Franklin D. Roosevelt, or on the right like Ronald Reagan.
They, too, were polarizing figures. But each outflanked the opposition by making broad appeals to the public, exactly what Mr. Obama has recently been unable to do.
Some fault Mr. Obama's detached, professorial manner. Others blame a segment of the public uncomfortable with Mr. Obama's leadership because he is black. There is probably some truth in these explanations, but only some. Mr. Obama's campaign oratory was among the most rousing in modern history, and he captured the support of nearly 53 percent of the voters -- more than any Democrat since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964. During his first days in office, Mr. Obama's approval ratings soared to prodigious heights.
Why then has Mr. Obama failed to transcend the ideological enmities he has said he despises? One reason may be the widespread misconception about the true provenance and nature of polarization in contemporary politics.
The culture wars are commonly said to have taken shape in the 1960s, a time of upheaval and bitter discord in which America's valued institutions -- its churches, its universities, its rule of law -- came under steady assault even as differences over the cold war, racial injustice and sexual mores left Americans fiercely at odds.
Mr. Sullivan, in his essay, theorized that ''the divide is still -- amazingly -- between those who fought in Vietnam and those who didn't, and between those who fought and dissented and those who fought but never dissented at all.''
By this reasoning, Mr. Obama, who was born in 1961 and was unscarred by the Vietnam years, offered an exit from those quarrels.
The argument gained credence during a second campaign controversy, this time involving Mr. Obama's acquaintance with Bill Ayers, the former antiwar militant. The charge that Mr. Obama had been ''palling around with terrorists,'' in Sarah Palin's phrase, might have been ruinous. But Mr. Obama defused it, pointing out that he was a small child when Mr. Ayers had committed his crimes. This implied that the excesses of the New Left were ancient history, and Americans had moved beyond them.
But the insurgency led by Mr. Beck and others has little to do with the 60s, which were, for one thing, years of great prosperity -- with high employment and federal budget surpluses.
It is rooted instead in the 1970s, a decade of economic distress parallel to today's. Conflicts then had less to do with extremist threats to the social order -- from, say, the Weather Underground on the left and the John Birch Society on the right -- than with battles waged over social changes the government itself enacted, including court-mandated busing, affirmative action and legalized abortion. Many who believed they stood within the mainstream of politics and culture became convinced that their best interests and values were disrespected by the governing class.
In the 1960s, a liberal like Daniel Patrick Moynihan could find common cause with a conservative like William F. Buckley Jr. because both were committed to ''the politics of stability,'' in Mr. Moynihan's phrase, and supported the institutions that bolstered it -- whether on campuses, in the nation's great cities or in statehouses.
But in the 1970s, many ordinary citizens -- ''middle Americans,'' as they were called, or ''middle American radicals'' -- grew skeptical of those same institutions, even of bastions like the church, in particular some ''high church'' Protestant denominations, whose liberal teachings and ideological alliances with secular activists left some congregants uneasy.
''Not only did evangelical churches add members faster through the 1970s than non-evangelical,'' David Frum notes in ''How We Got Here,'' his book about the decade, ''but the more evangelical the church, the more likely its members were to attend services.''
Evangelicalism soon became a potent force in politics -- first with the election of Jimmy Carter, a born-again Christian, in 1976, and then with the founding of the Moral Majority in 1979.
Meanwhile, the New Right, as it was called, identified other institutional adversaries: ''the dominant media, the major foundations and research institutions, the educational establishment, the federal and state bureaucracies,'' as William Rusher, the publisher of National Review, wrote in 1975.
A key episode in the emerging culture war was a curriculum battle in West Virginia that drew national attention in 1974. Local conservatives boycotted the public schools when students were assigned textbooks including passages that were said to mount a ''humanistic, atheistic attack on God.'' Some of the leaders in the fight were evangelicals, who ''claimed not that they were more expert than the teachers who chose the books but that experts were not to be trusted,'' as Calvin Trillin reported in The New Yorker.
''The protesters often said that they and their religious beliefs were being mocked by those who were educated or rich or powerful,'' Mr. Trillin wrote. ''They were right, of course.''
Inevitably, this anger infused electoral politics. Conservatives disenchanted with the moderate presidencies of Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford threatened to bolt the Republican Party, prefiguring the Tea Partiers of today.
Mr. Rusher, for one, urged restive conservatives to form a third party, the Independence Party, that would form a ''great coalition'' composed of ''the great bulk of middle-class Protestants.'' Its natural tribune, Mr. Rusher wrote, was Ronald Reagan, who would in fact go on to challenge Mr. Ford in 1976 -- a campaign that had the crusading atmosphere of a third-party insurgency.
All this signaled that political protest had migrated from the fringes to the mainstream, where it remains today. Seen from this perspective, Mr. Obama, who fits the 1960s idea of a consensus politician, appears to be firmly planted in one camp, with his establishment pedigree and his urban sensibility. He has overt connections to the underclass, through his work as a community organizer, and to the overprivileged, through his Ivy League background, but little to the alienated middle class. To this group he seems not so much the outsider of his actual biography but, rather, a burnished product of ''the new elite'' or ''the new class,'' to quote terms that came into vogue in the 1970s.
Mr. Obama's Christianity also puts him in a particular camp. He is the Christian who seems as deeply immersed in the Social Gospel as in the Gospels, who acknowledges ''I didn't have an epiphany,'' and describes his faith as ''both a spiritual, but also intellectual, journey.''
It's not that Mr. Beck and his followers don't recognize Mr. Obama. They do, or think they do, all too well.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Right Side: Ronald Reagan, the Rev. Jerry Falwell and his wife, Macel, in 1980. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES HARRITY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (WK1)
Continued: The roots of Glenn Beck's opposition to President Obama can at least partly be found in the cultural wars of the 1970s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Caught: President Obama finds himself in an ideological battle he sought to avoid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDA STELTER/BIRMINGHAM NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS, 2007)
 Rising: The evangelicals movement grew as battles waged over social changes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JP LAFFONT/SYGMA -- CORBIS, 1972) (WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); POLITICS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (57%); BILL CLINTON (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



115 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: MR. FOURTH-AND-GO FOR IT

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
David H. Romer is a respected economist whose ideas influence central bankers and governments hoping to pull out of a recession. He was an early adviser to the Obama campaign along with his wife and frequent collaborator, Christina, who spent the last two years as President Obama's chief economist.
But on any given Sunday, Romer is better known as the brains behind a different kind of policy advice: what should N.F.L. teams do on fourth down? 
Should they punt and try to leave their opponent with lousy field position? Settle for an easy field goal? Or take a chance by going for a first down or even a touchdown?
In a seminal 2002 research paper, Romer captured the attention of football writers, sports nerds and even Coach Bill Belichick of the New England Patriots after he crunched the numbers and concluded that N.F.L. coaches made the wrong decision a shockingly large percentage of the time. Teams should try for a touchdown far more often than they actually do, he found.
''This pushes for more high-stakes plays,'' Romer said in a recent telephone interview, suggesting that N.F.L. coaches might also want to attempt onside kicks more frequently and call for more deep passing routes. ''The football analytics push you to a more aggressive, exciting game.''
Romer, a lifelong sports fan who is a professor at the University of California, Berkeley, came up with the idea to rigorously examine fourth-down plays after listening to a radio broadcast of an Oakland Raiders game in his car about a decade ago. Although the Raiders had the ball in striking distance of the end zone, one of the commentators remarked that they would be smarter to kick a near-certain field goal rather risk going for a touchdown.
''I am pretty analytic,'' Romer recalled telling himself. ''That is a pretty shallow way of thinking about it.''
So, after stewing over the idea for a couple of years, he set out to tackle the great fourth-down debate. Armed with high-octane statistical tools, Romer and a group of Berkeley students analyzed the results of thousands of plays from more than 700 N.F.L. games. The research team encountered data issues that most economists never face.
At one meeting, for example, the group debated how to handle fourth-down plays when there was a penalty before the snap. (They were excluded.) Romer also reached out to coaches for advice. He met with Cal's offensive coordinator as well as members of the San Francisco 49ers' coaching staff.
His wife joked that the study was his answer to a midlife crisis. ''Other men, when they turn 40, buy a red convertible,'' Christina Romer is fond of telling friends. ''My husband, when he turns 40, writes about football.''
Even before it was published in the Journal of Political Economy, the study was an instant sensation among sports journalists, armchair economists and football nuts. At a sports and economics conference, Romer took the stage alongside other leading gurus, like Bill James, the dean of baseball statisticians, and Billy Beane, the Oakland Athletics' general manager who famously built his team by relying on analytics rather than instincts.
Today, college students in his economics seminars quiz him about controversial fourth-down calls. Fans stop him on the street.
''It feels like I am getting my 15 minutes of fame infinitely repeated,'' Romer said.
But the two groups perhaps most affected by his work initially brushed it aside. Fellow academics were skeptical that N.F.L. coaches would act as irrationally as the study concluded.
''Economists don't tend to believe professionals get stuff as wrong as this,'' said Richard H. Thaler, a University of Chicago economics professor who has used similar statistical techniques to analyze how N.F.L. teams make draft picks. (Swayed by the data, many have since come around.)
But N.F.L. coaches, for their part, dismissed the findings as ivory tower nonsense.
''If we all listened to the professor, we may be all looking for professor jobs,'' Bill Cowher, a former Pittsburgh Steelers coach, once remarked in ESPN The Magazine. Romer said he had never gotten so much as a phone call from anyone affiliated with the N.F.L. -- and seems astonished by the disregard.
''These guys do everything they can to win,'' he said. ''Why not look into it?''
One coach who did acknowledge reading Romer's report was Belichick, who holds a degree in economics and coincidentally found himself under fire last season for an ill-fated fourth-down call.
With a 34-28 lead over the Indianapolis Colts and a little more than two minutes to play, Belichick opted to forgo punting on fourth-and-2 with the ball on his team's 28. When the subsequent play was broken up, the Colts took possession with excellent field position and plenty of time for Peyton Manning to lead a game-winning touchdown drive.
Belichick has said that he trusted his gut, not an academic paper, when he made the decision for the Patriots to go for first down. Even so, Romer said that his read of the data suggested the odds were in Belichick's favor when he made the call.
''It's complicated, but Belichick probably made the right decision,'' he said.
Romer, who grew up a Miami Dolphins fan during the Don Shula era of the 1970s and '80s, said that the goal of his study was not to ''replace coaching decisions with a computer'' but to inform their understanding of the game. ''You ought to know when you are making these decisions what the statistics say, on average,'' he said.
Besides, Romer added, knowing the probabilities can make watching the games more fun for armchair quarterbacks like himself.
Romer routinely tunes in to radio broadcasts on Sunday afternoons, but he has given up on rooting for teams to lose close games when they do not go for it on fourth down.
''At this point, I kind of like the Raiders because they are so hopeless,'' he said. ''They just do their own thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David H. Romer said he came up with the idea to rigorously examine fourth-down plays after listening to a radio broadcast of an Oakland Raiders game in his car about a decade ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA LUCIDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); SPORTS FANS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); OAKLAND RAIDERS (59%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); CHRISTINA ROMER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



116 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Plan Political Triage To Retain House

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As Democrats brace for a November wave that threatens their control of the House, party leaders are preparing a brutal triage of their own members in hopes of saving enough seats to keep a slim grip on the majority.
In the next two weeks, Democratic leaders will review new polls and other data that show whether vulnerable incumbents have a path to victory. If not, the party is poised to redirect money to concentrate on trying to protect up to two dozen lawmakers who appear to be in the strongest position to fend off their challengers.
''We are going to have to win these races one by one,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, conceding that the party would ultimately cut loose members who had not gained ground.
With the midterm campaign entering its final two months, Democrats acknowledged that several races could quickly move out of their reach, including re-election bids by Representatives Betsy Markey of Colorado, Tom Perriello of Virginia, Mary Jo Kilroy of Ohio and Frank Kratovil Jr. of Maryland, whose districts were among the 55 Democrats won from Republicans in the last two election cycles. 
Representatives John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, chairman of the Budget Committee, and Earl Pomeroy of North Dakota, who is seeking a 10th term, are among the senior Democrats who have appeared to gain little ground in the summer months in the toxic political environment. A sputtering economy and discontent with Washington have created a high sense of voter unease that has also put control of the Senate in question.
To hold the line against Republicans, the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, issued an urgent plea for members in safe districts to help their endangered colleagues by contributing money. She called out Democrats who were delinquent on paying their party dues and instructed members with no re-election worries to tap into a combined $218 million from their campaign accounts to help save their majority.
''We need to know your commitment,'' Ms. Pelosi wrote to lawmakers last week in a private letter, demanding that they call her within 72 hours to explain how they plan to help. She added, ''The day after the election, we do not want to have any regrets.''
A national campaign trumpeting Democratic accomplishments on health care, education and Wall Street regulation has given way to a race-by-race defensive strategy. Democratic incumbents are moving to aggressively define their Republican opponents and individualize races in an effort to inoculate themselves from the national mood.
In Missouri, Representative Ike Skelton has rarely run hard-hitting advertisements during 34 years in office, but he sternly accuses his opponent in one of not supporting the troops. In Texas, Representative Chet Edwards, using the word ''lie'' three times, accuses his rival in an advertisement of claiming that he voted in a recent election when polling records said he did not. In New Jersey, Representative John Adler accused his challenger, also in an advertisement, of buying a donkey so he could call his house a farm and get a tax break on it.
The sharp messages underscore the decreasing array of options facing Democrats as they try to overcome the party's declining standing. It is an open question whether voters will find the back-and-forth exchanges persuasive or whether some have reached the point where they are no longer listening to Democratic messages.
Nearly four dozen Democrats are broadcasting television advertisements -- far more by Labor Day than in previous election cycles.
President Obama is adding more fund-raisers to his schedule, traveling to Florida and Minnesota over the next six weeks to try to build on the House Democrats' shrinking financial advantage over Republicans. Mr. Obama intends to increase his efforts to draw a contrast with Republicans as he does more campaigning in the coming weeks and tries to energize the party's core voters.
While several Democratic candidates have more money in the bank than their rivals, Democrats fear that outside Republican advocacy groups will step in and fill the gap. They are watching to see if interest groups and other constituencies increase their donations to Republicans in the hopes of winning access and influence should the House change hands.
While Democrats have all but given up hope that the political or economic climate will improve substantially before the election, they are not conceding control of the House. Several party leaders and strategists privately acknowledge that about 20 seats are already probably lost, but they believe they can build a fire wall around seats in the Northeast and in other pockets across the country where Republicans have nominated untested candidates.
The battle is boiling down to a question of mathematics and difficult decisions for Democrats. By the best-case Democratic calculation, party strategists believe that Republicans must beat about 35 sitting Democrats if the parties split 16 highly competitive open seats and Democrats win four of five Republican seats they see as within their reach in Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois and Louisiana.
Faced with a hostile political atmosphere, Democrats said they were trying to allow candidates to use specific conditions in their districts or flaws in the opposition to overcome the disadvantage created by a sour national mood and intense opposition to the party's Congressional agenda.
''Ultimately, these races come down to a choice,'' said Mr. Kratovil, a freshman who represents the Eastern Shore of Maryland, where Senator John McCain beat Mr. Obama by 18 points two years ago. ''The national part of it has some impact, but I think the bigger part of it is voters looking at people and deciding who is best going to represent them.''
Party leaders have ordered new polls in second-tier districts to see if Democrats in less competitive areas are suddenly vulnerable. Democrats are scouring for signs of a Republican wave, carefully watching clusters of races in Illinois, Indiana, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania, which under a worst-case scenario could represent almost enough seats to lose the House.
''In 2008, there was this sense of hope and this sense of being able to change the world,'' said Representative Zack Space, Democrat of Ohio. ''A lot of that enthusiasm doesn't exist now, and I think a lot of that is a result of having been in a recession for two years.''
But Democrats dismissed any suggestion that all was lost.
In some of the most conservative districts in the nation, several Democrats appear to be emerging in stronger positions, largely because Republicans nominated candidates who appear to be weaker. Even Republicans conceded that Representatives Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona, Walt Minnick of Idaho and Larry Kissell of North Carolina were no longer as vulnerable as once assumed.
For all of their advantages, including new polls from districts across the country last week that showed gains, Republicans dismissed the likelihood of winning a landslide 60 seats, as some analysts have predicted. Yet even as Republican leaders sought to contain expectations, several candidates said last week that the winds were unmistakably blowing their way.
''It's getting better every week,'' said Mike Fitzpatrick, a Pennsylvania Republican who lost a House seat in 2006 and is locked in a rematch with Representative Patrick J. Murphy. Mr. Fitzpatrick said the environment for Democrats reminded him of what Republicans faced four years ago.
''Voters,'' he said, ''will ultimately hold the party in power responsible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Betsy Markey's race is among those that Democrats admit could move out of their reach. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mary Jo Kilroy's seat is one of 55 that Democrats won from the G.O.P. in recent elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A19) MAPS: How Democrats Hope to Hold Their House Majority: The latest New York Times analysis of Congressional races suggests that Democrats should easily win 168 seats in safe districts. Here is how they hope to win 50 more seats needed to maintain control of the House. (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); BUDGETS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: BETSY MARKEY (73%); CHET EDWARDS (58%); FRANK KRATOVIL (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); IKE SKELTON (58%); EARL POMEROY (58%); JOHN SPRATT (58%); NANCY PELOSI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



117 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Town Houses With Benefits

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
WHETHER brownstone in Harlem, limestone on the Upper East Side or red brick in the West Village, town houses are a defining feature of many Manhattan neighborhoods. Yet they now make up less than 1 percent of the borough's real estate market.
And with the high cost of land and the expense of development, the opportunity for new town house construction is rare, which is why a handful of projects in the West Village and SoHo that include town houses, are attracting notice.
The developers and architects say they are propelling the town house into the modern era by providing the convenience and amenities of condominium living while working within the confines of historic neighborhoods.
Conceived at the height of the boom but only recently put on the market, the new town houses could hardly be less alike in style. At Soho Mews, on West Broadway between Grand and Canal Streets, the steel and glass design pays tribute to the cast-iron buildings that dominate the neighborhood. Superior Ink, on Bethune Street between Washington and West Streets, adheres to the architect Robert A. M. Stern's nostalgic bent. And a block away at 385 West 12th Street, the developer/architect FLAnk has clad four town houses and accompanying condos in glimmering copper that will change color as it ages. 
''One of the negatives of town houses in the past was that you also had to have a Jeeves,'' said Joanna Rose, the vice president of communications at Related, which developed Superior Ink, named after the factory that it replaced. ''We solve that problem.''
One way that has been done, in all three cases, is to connect the town houses to condominium projects.
A century ago, a young real estate broker named Douglas Elliman persuaded Senator Elihu Root of New York to move from his comfortable town house on Park Avenue to a new, luxurious apartment building at 998 Fifth Avenue -- by cutting his rent.
With its rusticated limestone exterior and elaborate copper cornices, 998 Fifth, designed by McKim, Mead & White to evoke an Italian Renaissance palazzo, was soon hailed as one of the grandest structures in the city. Other prominent New Yorkers, including Guggenheims and Vanderbilts, soon moved in, setting off a transformation in urban living, said Michael Kovner, a vice president of Brown Harris Stevens who teaches a course on the city's real estate history for the Real Estate Board of New York.
In his book ''Touring the Upper East Side: Walks in Five Historic Districts,'' Andrew S. Dolkart noted the transition. ''At the time 998 was built, apartment house living had not yet been widely accepted by the very wealthy, but as The Real Estate Record noted, 998 helped to change the 'deep-seated repugnance' that 'families of high social position' had for apartments,'' he wrote.
Since then apartment living has been ascendant, but the sales success of the new projects -- even at $5 million and up -- indicates that New York's moneyed elite still like their private homes. The average price for a Manhattan town house in 2010 was $4.422 million, according to data provided the Corcoran Real Estate Group. The properties have held their value well in the recession, falling only 11 percent from the peak average price of $4.972 million in 2008.
''One of the great reasons to buy a house is that they are really not making any more,'' said Patrick Vernon Lilly, a senior vice president of the Corcoran Group who specializes in town houses. ''We are seeing a handful coming on the market, but generally, there are more lost to development than gained. It is a dwindling market and that keeps the prices of town houses very high, compared to the value of condos and co-ops.''
The least expensive of the new town houses are at Soho Mews. Three of the five have already been sold, with the remaining two priced at $4.95 million and $5.675 million.
Soho Mews was developed by United American Land. Albert Laboz, who runs the company with his brothers, Jason and Jody, said that until now they had largely focused on retail.
Just as developers turned to the star power of architects like McKim Mead & White at the turn of the last century to draw in clients, Mr. Laboz hired Gwathmey Siegel & Associates, perhaps best known for the addition to the Guggenheim Museum in the early 1990s.
Robert Siegel, the principal and founding partner of the firm, said the challenge was to stay consistent with the ''vocabulary of the neighborhood'' without simply mimicking its surroundings.
''The facades of the buildings were conceived as a contemporary reinterpretation of the historical cast-iron and glass facades of neighboring buildings,'' Mr. Siegel said. This was accomplished, he said, by creating a large-scale grid of channel-shaped metal elements that frame frosted, clear and fritted glass. The development, built on a former parking lot, is made up of two buildings divided by a central courtyard, with the condos making up one building on West Broadway, and town houses the other, on Wooster Street.
Lady Gaga showed up for a viewing at Soho Mews in what appeared to be underwear, and complained that there were too many windows, said Jessica Geiger, a spokeswoman at Dan Klores Communications, the building's publicist. But Sean Sweeney, the director of the SoHo Alliance, a civic group, said the project was ''an architectural success'' and praised the developers for working with community leaders from the outset.
''They did it the right way,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''They came to us very early on with the plans and they asked for a meeting with the community, which in SoHo and downtown in general is a very smart idea because we are the Nimby capital of the country,'' he said.
During construction, some neighbors did complain about damage to their properties.
Owners of town houses at Soho Mews can enter via the sleek lobby of the condominium on West Broadway, which looks like a hotel with its walnut concierge desk, and pass through the 4,000-square-foot courtyard on the way to their homes. Or they can use their own private entrances, oversized pivoting glass doors, on Wooster Street.
''I have worked with a lot of famous people and the thing that many of them want is anonymity,'' said Mr. Lilly of the Corcoran Group. ''They can slide into a town house and out of a town house without being recognized by other people in the building.''
Still, many affluent buyers also want the amenities and services that come with being part of a larger development. And they are willing to pay a premium for it, including monthly fees ranging from $3,000 to $7,000 on top of the multimillion dollar purchases.
For owners of the seven town houses lining the far west end of Bethune Street that are a part of Superior Ink, that means access to an entertainment room, a screening room and a gym. Just as at Soho Mews, rear entrances provide an alternative to the traditional front door. There is also valet bike parking.
Building in the West Village presents very different challenges, in part because town houses are an embedded part of the fabric of the neighborhood.
Superior Ink supplanted one of the last factories in the area, which drew attention to the project from the start. The much smaller FLAnk project, on the other hand, replacing only Diane Von Furstenberg's mansion and another town house, did not attract as much notice, which is not to say that everybody likes the prominent copper facade.
Andrew Berman, the executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation, said that the demolition of older buildings to make room for the new developments was a loss for the neighborhood.
''Both projects turned out pretty much as we expected,'' Mr. Berman said.
''The Superior Ink town houses are a kind of historicist stage set, while the FLAnk project is more modern exhibitionism,'' he said. ''I miss the 19th- and early-20th-century factory buildings they replaced; but fortunately, while the city refused to landmark those buildings, we have been able to get much of the rest of the far West Village landmarked, and thus most of the neighborhood's remaining industrial and maritime architecture will be preserved.''
The two neighboring projects approached the modern town house in very different ways.
Mr. Stern, who designed both the town houses and the larger condominium tower of Superior Ink, looked to the past, creating town houses reminiscent of those built 100 years ago. With red-brick facades, stoops rising to the front door, bay windows and curved metal railings, there is little to indicate that they have any connection to the tower.
''The people looking at these homes are not looking for the 'Austin Powers' kind of look,'' said Ms. Rose of Related.
The marketing of the project calls upon an idealized past in a hard-bound prospectus. ''The graceful, expansive floor plans, blend of lavish materials and subtle architectural details,'' it informs prospective buyers, ''display a richness and confidence that evoke the grandeur of earlier West Village eras.''
Mr. Kovner said: ''New money wants something bespoken.''
The interiors of the town houses, which range from 24 to 29 feet wide, are also a throwback, with grand parlors for entertaining and dumbwaiters so that cooks and caterers can prepare food out of view.
But there are also nods to the way people live today: wide-open floor plans, midnight kitchenettes in floor-through master suites and landscaped rooftops.
Four of the seven town houses have sold, including one for more than $10 million to the designer Marc Jacobs. The remaining three are even pricier.
Just a block away on West 12th Street, FLAnk decided to go in a different direction, with asymmetrical walls of copper and glass.
''The building looks hyper-modern, but the spaces inside are much more warm than you might think,'' said Brett Miles, a broker with Brown Harris Stevens who is helping sell units in the building.
The 12-story building is a combination of town houses and condominiums. With construction just being completed, three of the four town houses have already been sold for between $7 and $8 million. The last town house is priced at $7.95 million. Owners have access to a common rooftop garden, including a heated 50-foot lap pool and a whirlpool bath, which will be open year-round.
But technically, because the town houses are part of larger building, they are maisonettes -- which is itself a marketing term coined by developers almost 100 years ago to lure in apartment buyers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SOHO MEWS: PRICE: $4.95 million to $5.675 million ARCHITECT: Gwathmey Siegel & Associates (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SUPERIOR INK: PRICE: $11.6 million to $12.95 million ARCHITECT: Robert A. M. Stern (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
385 WEST 12TH STREET: PRICE: $7.95 million ARCHITECT: FLAnk (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
A CHOICE: At Soho Mews, the town houses have private doors on Wooster Street, above and left. Owners can also enter their homes through the courtyard between their homes and the condominium on West Broadway. Top, far left, an open kitchen in one of the town houses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
POOLED RESOURCES: The view from the kitchen of one of the four town houses at 385 West 12th Street. Owners have the use of the condominium's rooftop lap pool. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE BACK 40: A rear entrance to a town house at Superior Ink. Owners have access to the concierge at the associated condominium on West 12th Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
On the Market: 564 SECOND STREET, BROOKLYN: A five-story Park Slope brownstone built in 1891, listed at $2.75 million. (718) 399-4105
129 WEST 119TH STREET, MANHATTAN: A five-bedroom Harlem town house, listed at $1.95 million. (212) 381-6559
(212) 381-2585
 323 MACDONOUGH STREET, BROOKLYN: A Bed-Stuy house with an owner's duplex and two rentals, listed at $849,000. (212) 906-0531 (RE9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (53%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



118 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD JOINT ROCKAWAYS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Drinks, Breezes, Groaners

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
HARD against the seashore, on Beach 116th Street, there is a funny place to visit on a summer afternoon. It is called the Sand Bar, and it is the only tavern from the Rockaway peninsula to Long Beach that offers drinks with a view of the Atlantic.
Ticky-tacky beer pennants flutter in the salt breeze. Old stones from the ocean paperweight your money. A man walks down the Boardwalk with his pants bunched at his waist. He is lucky. There is a cigarette butt in the gutter. He scampers down, picks it up, sets it on his lip and walks away. 
''It's not the worst place in the world,'' said Ralph Costa, a former beer truck driver and the Sand Bar's resident comedian. ''The trouble is, people here aren't laughing anymore.''
That may be because of Mr. Costa's jokes. He has already told the one about the armless angler and followed that with an obscene riff about the neighborhood in Brooklyn known as Flatbush. When someone buys his drink, he tugs against his collar in the style of Rodney Dangerfield. ''You see the game?'' he said. ''The score is tied -- and so am I.''
Mr. Costa, 59, is an almost man. At age 15, while working as a bellhop in the Catskills, he almost bought a car from Jackie Mason. He drove a bus for almost seven months back and forth on 86th Street in Manhattan. He is amusing, almost. ''Laughter's good for the blood pressure,'' Mr. Costa said, ''and it's less expensive than Viagra. I've been married 35 years -- I ought to know.''
Silent rimshot. The barman moved away.
Three stools down, a loud discussion was taking place about a national teachers' union. The men involved in this discussion -- they were teachers -- were upset about the union's president, who is a lesbian. They made remarks about her companions and habits in the bedroom. They were very drunk and laughed into their drinks.
To Mr. Costa, this was a tonic, and he tipped his glass toward the Sand Bar's open windows, beyond which lay the Boardwalk, the beach, the setting summer sun. ''The laughter -- '' he announced, apparently on the verge of some profundity. But when he stopped to take a sip, he lost the thread.
Later, he explained what he meant to say was that the Sand Bar had been lacking in laughter all summer -- a dearth he blamed on ''the problems of the world,'' which increasingly appear to him to be beyond repair. The television set beside the men's room set these forth in a series of passing segments: Afghanistan, Iraq, mounting unemployment, the country's rising debt.
Now, the news anchor was reporting on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. A cap was put in place. The leak was at an end.
Mr. Costa wagered one more joke.
''Bet you anything, the stock goes up now,'' he said. ''Want to know why? I don't own it.''
The man beside him smiled.
''You know,'' he said, ''that's the first funny thing I think I've heard you say.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (54%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



119 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: After Bargains Of Recession, Air Fares Soar

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Air fares have marched steadily upward in recent months and are now close to pre-recession levels -- and that's not even counting all the fees that airlines have introduced lately.
The increase in fares is the result of a remarkable discipline shown by the airlines, which have generally not added more flights this year even as the economy has improved and demand has picked up. For the airlines, flying fewer and fuller planes has paid off.
Passengers are paying the price. For leisure travelers, domestic fares have increased by more than 20 percent in the second quarter compared with a year earlier, according to data compiled by the travel Web site Orbitz. On international routes in that period, the climb was even steeper, with fares rising 30 percent. For business travelers, ticket prices increased by 12 percent in the first half of the year.
The price of round-trip coach tickets for a flight between Chicago and Atlanta, for instance, was about $250 this summer, a $50 increase over last year. A round-trip ticket from New York to Paris, which sold for less than $700 last year, cost more than $1,000 this summer. 
Even as the summer ends, experts said they did not expect bargain fares to return anytime soon. While they expect price increases to moderate in coming months when travel traditionally slows, travelers should brace for more increases for the year-end holidays.
''My advice now is don't procrastinate if you're planning to travel over the holidays,'' said Rick Seaney, the chief executive of FareCompare.com, a travel Web site.
The rise in fares can seem especially steep because it follows a low point for the industry. As the economy contracted last year, consumers cut back on spending and air travel collapsed, pushing prices down to their lowest levels in a decade.
Those low fares put immense pressure on the airlines, which had already been struggling with high energy prices.
Airline executives have since been preaching the need to reduce the number of seats they offer, either through cutbacks or consolidation. That thinking led to the merger plans between United Airlines and Continental Airlines. The carriers recently received government approval for the deal, and the merger is expected to be complete on Oct. 1.
''Airlines are continuing to show voluntary capacity discipline for the first time not just this decade, but really since the industry was deregulated in 1978,'' said Hunter Keay, an airline analyst at the firm Stifel Nicolaus.
Of course, the health of the economy remains the wild card in the industry's efforts to improve revenue. If the economy takes a turn for the worse, fewer people will be flying, which, in turn, would push down prices.
In the meantime, airlines have seen some marked improvements in their bottom line.
The average yield -- or the price paid by one passenger to fly one mile -- was 14.95 cents in July, the second-highest price for that month in the past decade, according to data compiled by the Air Transport Association. (The peak for July was 15.56 cents in 2008.)
Passenger revenue rose by 20 percent, marking the seventh straight month of revenue growth, the industry trade group said in its latest monthly report.
Travelers like Damon Myers certainly have noticed the higher prices. ''It's difficult to get a cheap ticket these days,'' said Mr. Myers, a technology consultant from Brooklyn, on his way to pick up a friend at the airport. ''Fares are going up. And on most flights now you'll hear the announcement, 'We've got a packed flight today.' ''
Airlines declined to comment about pricing, citing antitrust concerns. But one executive said that while the airlines have not been able to impose fare increases across the board this year, they have been able to capitalize on the return of business travelers. With more of those higher-paying customers, the airlines were able to reduce the number of cheap seats available, raising their overall revenue per flight.
At the same time, the airlines have also raised an array of fees and other extra charges.
''Everything that you can charge a fee for in the process of flying, there now is a fee for,'' Mr. Seaney said. ''Airlines have been wanting to do this for years.''
The cornucopia of new fees can feel maddeningly complicated. Most airlines now charge for food or drinks, checked bags or flying on standby. Changing tickets costs $50 to $250. JetBlue sells a ''sleep set'' containing a pillow and a blanket for $7; Continental charges $20 to provide a receipt if the request is made more than seven days after a flight.
In the past two months, American Airlines has found a variety of new services worthy of a fee. For $9, passengers can be among the first to board a flight, a perk these days as travelers bring more bags on board than will fit in overhead compartments.
For $25 or $49, passengers can double or triple the number of miles they earn on a flight.
And for fees ranging from $19 to $39, American allows passengers to book seats in one of the first two rows of seats in the coach cabin. These ''express exit'' seats allow passengers to be among the first to board and get out.
''Airlines are getting increasingly creative in charging for items they once provided for free,'' said Jami Counter, the senior director of TripAdvisor Flights, a Web flight search tool. ''For consumers, the result is opaque.''
Matthew Paulsen, an American who lives in Argentina, said he recently balked at having to pay $3.50 for snacks on a flight from Miami to Newark. So for a flight from Buenos Aires to New York, he chose LAN Airlines over American Airlines, though both sold tickets for the flight, because American charges $7 for drinks.
''I want the perks,'' he said. ''I want the blanket. I want the snacks. I want the free drinks, without having to worry about paying for one or two beers.''
But as the fees have multiplied, airlines' fortunes have improved. Four of the top five established airlines turned a profit in the second quarter this year.
In July, Delta Air Lines, the nation's top carrier, reported its biggest quarterly profit in a decade, $467 million for the second quarter. Its revenue from passengers, which includes both higher ticket prices and more revenue from fees, jumped 19 percent. It filled 85 percent of all its seats in that period, a much higher figure than the industry is used to.
''The industry's operational performance has significantly improved,'' said William S. Swelbar, a research engineer at the International Center for Air Transportation at M.I.T.
But Mr. Swelbar said that airlines might be hard pressed to hold on to some of their recent gains if the economy slows down.
''As much as I want to believe that a secular trend of profitability is under way, I am not so sure this is all behind us, given the fragility of this recovery,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Rising Air Fares: The average price that passengers paid to fly each mile in July, excluding taxes, was the second-highest of the last 10 years. This measure, also known as yield, is a strong indicator of airline revenue performance. (Source: Air Transport Association) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (92%); AIRLINES (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MERGERS (85%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AIR SERVICE (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); TICKET SALES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%); OWW (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) GEORGIA, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



120 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEATER REVIEW LONG ISLAND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: On an Avenue Far From Sesame Street

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
I smiled all the way through the Gateway Playhouse's sweet, naughty, hilarious, absolutely first-rate production of ''Avenue Q.'' Except when poor Kate Monster was stood up at midnight on the Empire State Building's observation deck. But then the penny that she threw down to the street hit Lucy the Slut in the head, knocking her out, and I was laughing again. (Lucy the Slut totally deserved it.)
For those unfamiliar with ''Avenue Q,'' an introduction is in order. This is a musical about Princeton (played by Howie Michael Smith), a young college graduate having trouble discovering his purpose in life, staying employed and finding a neighborhood he can afford. He lands in a run-down building on iffy Avenue Q, where he meets equally frustrated neighbors. He and most of those neighbors are puppets with nylon fleece faces and big unblinking eyes. 
''Avenue Q'' opened on Broadway in 2003, won the Tony Award for best musical and ran for six years. It is still playing in New York, now in an Off Broadway theater. It includes a nude (and adorable) puppet-sex scene and introduced the world to memorable musical numbers like ''Everyone's a Little Bit Racist'' and ''The Internet Is for Porn.''
These puppets look and sound a lot like ''Sesame Street'' Muppets, but the lessons they're dealing with go way beyond learning to count. Rod (also Mr. Smith) is gay and closeted, even to his straight-but-not-narrow roommate, Nicky (Chris Cooke), with whom he is secretly in love. Kate (Gwen Hollander), a kindergarten assistant, has entrepreneurial dreams that she can't afford to execute. And she's desperate to find a boyfriend. Trekkie Monster (Mr. Cooke), no relation to Kate, spends his days and nights alone, online.
A human character named Christmas Eve (EJ Zimmerman) is a beautiful, overeducated therapist with no clients and a lazy human fiance (Michael Edward Baker). She tried to get a job at a Korean deli, she sings, but they noticed she was Japanese.
The only other human is the building's superintendent, a character based on the former child star Gary Coleman (Carla Hargrove in overalls and a baseball cap), who has fallen on hard times since his days in the sitcom ''Diff'rent Strokes.'' It's a relief that he has remained in place despite the real Mr. Coleman's death at age 42 earlier this year, and that his presence is in no way offensive or maudlin. The role is written with genuine empathy, and audiences are likely to feel for this character even more than before, now that we know how his story ends.
The Bad Idea Bears (Carrie Cimma and Mr. Cooke) are two pastel Snuggle Bear look-alikes who show up at various moments in characters' lives to offer really bad advice. Like ''You should buy some beer'' with the money your parents sent you, or take advantage of your date because ''she's wasted.''
One thing has changed significantly since ''Avenue Q'' made its debut. In 2003, many theatergoers probably felt nothing more than distant sympathy for the 20-somethings and their woes. These days you don't have to be a newcomer to the job market to worry seriously about chronic unemployment and even the prospect of homelessness.
''Avenue Q'' is often surprisingly touching. Keith Andrews, who directed and choreographed beautifully, finds and magnifies the poignancy in Kate's number ''There's a Fine, Fine Line'' (the lyric continues ''between love and a waste of time''). Toward the end of ''I Wish I Could Go Back to College,'' whose lyrics remind us of the joys of having a meal plan, Princeton sings quietly, ''I wish I had taken more pictures.'' Oh, Princeton, so do I!
The whole cast is terrific. If standouts had to be named, they would be Mr. Smith (who played Princeton on Broadway in 2006), Ms. Hollander and Ms. Zimmerman.
In the closing number, ''For Now,'' a biting reference to George W. Bush has been changed to a mention of BP. But puppet-humor lines like ''Her head fell off in the ambulance'' will live forever.
''Avenue Q,'' by Robert Lopez, Jeff Marx and Jeff Whitty, is at the Gateway Playhouse, 215 South Country Road, Bellport, through Sept. 19. Information: (631) 286-1133 or gatewayplayhouse.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NAUGHTY: From left, Carrie Cimma, the puppet Nicky, Chris Cooke, the puppet Rod and Howie Michael Smith at the Gateway Playhouse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF BELLANTE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); CHRISTMAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



121 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: A Salon With All the Trimmings

BYLINE: By WENDY A. LEE

 BODY:
AT the Pierre Michel salon on East 57th Street in Manhattan, the expensive, laborious and luxurious process of beautification reduced one client to tears.
''I can't see,'' the woman said, her eyelashes newly layered in $500 mink-hair extensions, tears streaming down her cheeks.
''Do you need the fan?'' asked Collette Draut, her aesthetician, as she handed her client a battery-operated gadget to blow away the fumes of the pharmaceutical-grade glue.
Ms. Draut, who works lash-by-lash to affix individual mink hairs to her clients, is one of the salon's 75 beauticians who practice a specialty service. Each has an adoring client base that has fed Pierre Michel's reputation as one of the city's most decadent salons. 
I recently spent a day observing the creative process at the salon's new location, a 9,000-square-foot swath of a skyscraper at Lexington Avenue and 57th Street. (Until November, the salon, which has moved several times, had been around the corner.)
The new place has 61 workstations devoted, for the most part, to the hair, face and hands. Dressed as an assistant, I could observe without obtruding, unless I chose to reveal myself as a reporter.
At the reception desk, clients rarely signed in. Instead, they waved as they proceeded with unslackened step directly to a private dressing room or to a particular workstation. ''They know their way around,'' said Mary Oh, a receptionist.
She helped guide me through an elaborate touch-screen control panel that color-codes and numbers each booking according to whether the client is new, a regular or a ''very regular.''
The rich and famous come and go without undue attention. ''Celebrities do not like to be handled differently,'' said Ruth Hoppe, the desk manager. ''When Uma Thurman comes in and has her color done, she still makes the appointment. Or her assistant makes the appointment. And no one makes a fuss.''
''Same for Christine Quinn,'' she said referring to the New York City Council Speaker.
''And Nina Garcia,'' a receptionist chimed in.
Last year, Pierre Michel made headlines when word spread that it had banned Bernard L. Madoff's wife, Ruth, from its premises. ''Her colorist had to break it to her,'' one stylist said.
On this summer day, the salon was expecting 245 clients (during the high season -- from October to December -- as many as 400 arrive).
Around 11 a.m., a series of extremely well-coiffed women in their 60s and 70s entered, already toting a day's worth of shopping from nearby stores like Henri Bendel and Bergdorf Goodman.
PIERRE OUAKNINE, 70, and his business partner and childhood friend, Michel Obadia, 68, started a salon on East 53rd Street more than 40 years ago after immigrating from Morocco.
Today, Mr. Ouaknine directs the salon's business side while Mr. Obadia, still an active stylist, oversees its creative direction. Both are at work most days, usually surrounded by family members.
Mr. Ouaknine's sister, Danielle Ross, runs the office; Mr. Obadia's wife, Debbie, is in charge of payroll.
Dressed in a black Frank Stella linen suit, Mr. Ouaknine spoke to me in his office, which is equipped with a screen linked to a closed-circuit, multiple-camera surveillance system. He says he uses it to make sure his staff is always busy pampering customers. ''All women are beautiful as long as they are loved,'' Mr. Ouaknine said. ''Here, we love them.''
Love is not free at Pierre Michel. While prices vary by head of hair, a typical invoice might include a $350 keratin treatment (straightener that also strengthens the hair), a $300 color job, $175 for a basic cut and dry, plus 20 percent in tips, not to mention something for the assistants.
''This is expensive, it's time-consuming, it's my idea of a splurge,'' said Emily Vesely, a retired nurse who comes from Long Island every two months to see her stylist, Jerome Lordet.
As Ms. Vesely rifled through magazines and sipped lemon water, Mr. Lordet faced a challenge: a brittle mass of over-permed, nearly burned hair.
Clutching her aubergine Longchamp bag tightly in her lap, the client submitted to Mr. Lordet's silent assessment before being whisked away by his assistant, Ellen Rossi, for an intensive moisturizing shampoo and rinse.
''You see I have a lousy perm from Taipei,'' said the client, who travels from Asia once or twice a year to see Mr. Lordet. After 25 minutes, the client gazed contentedly in the mirror at her mass of voluminous curls.
''They know I get my hair cut in New York,'' she said of her friends back at home.
In a deeper recess of the salon, Mr. Lordet's wife, the colorist A. J. Lordet, applied lightener to a client's mousy gray hair, using a technique called balayage that uses tufts of cotton instead of aluminum foil for what is meant to be a more natural look.
Like several other women in the salon that day, her client, Ann Corless, an insurance executive, was there with family. Her daughter Sophie, 13, had an appointment with Mr. Lordet to repair an unfortunate layering job inflicted by a stylist in New Jersey.
''Jerome is Sophie's treat,'' said Ms. Corless, who has come to Mr. Lordet for more than 25 years. Before joining Pierre Michel, he was a wunderkind stylist at Bruno Dessange, the famous New York salon led by Bruno Pittini, who brought talented stylists like Frederic Fekkai from Paris.
''Remember when I first brought you to Jerome after you cut your own hair with plastic scissors?'' Ms. Corless said.
''He gave me a bob,'' her daughter recalled fondly.
After lunch in the staff room, where employees quickly refueled on light gossip and even lighter salads while watching CNN, it was time to meet Sue Ellen Gifford, the eyebrow guru who boasts of having shaped the brows of Angelina Jolie and Oprah Winfrey.
''It takes three things to look good in New York: eyes, teeth and hair,'' said Ms. Gifford, who studied physics and engineering in Romania. ''The rest doesn't matter or can be covered.''
By midafternoon, clients were lolling on couches, thumb-punching their BlackBerrys while waiting for their color to set or enjoying cappuccinos in the airy cafe, which featured snacks by David Burke as well as Cheez Doodles. By 5 p.m., male customers started arriving at the hair-washing stations, easing themselves into the reclining massage chairs.
The salon is equipped with wireless Internet access so that clients can work during their treatments. Some patrons even hold business meetings at the salon. ''Anna Wintour used to bring her team in at 7 a.m.,'' a stylist said.
But at Pierre Michel, where some clients have seen the same stylists regularly for decades, most pass the time catching up.
''God, whose wedding was that at?'' Irwin Gasner said to Kenneth Tepper, the longtime hairstylist of Mr. Gasner and his family. (Mr. Tepper's years of service to the Gasner family began at the Stephen Knoll salon, where he worked until last year.)
Mr. Tepper, who has styled the hair of Mr. Gasner's daughters from bat mitzvah to wedding, boosted Mr. Gasner's self image 27 years ago, reconciling his client to his ears. ''Remember?'' Mr. Tepper said. ''You had that long, shaggy hair to cover them up.''
More recently, Mr. Tepper vetoed Mr. Gasner's inclination to cover his gray. ''I wouldn't let him,'' Mr. Tepper said. ''As long as you have hair and a nice cut, it could be green and it would still look good.''
As he trimmed his client's eyebrows and buzzed his neckline (nose, ears and brows are part of the $115 cut for men), Mr. Gasner confessed to having briefly gone local. ''As the economy got tough, I thought, 'Let me see if I can get a less expensive haircut,' '' he said. ''I went to the most expensive salon in Rockland County. Of course, I came running back to Kenneth.''
Back in the coat room, Erica Torres, the attendant, mentioned a variety of idiosyncratic preferences that she regularly honors: clients who request ticket No. 1 (''They're like, 'I'm Number One, I'm always Number One' ''), a man who has a special 007 ticket written up for him and a woman who must have a private section of the closet because, ''she doesn't want her clothes to touch anyone else's.''
The quirks of the rich and pampered are nothing new to Ms. Torres, 19, whose mother, Sonia Nau, a Pierre Michel employee of 26 years, is the senior coat check attendant. ''I was practically born here,'' Ms. Torres said. ''I remember taking naps in the back and covering myself up with robes.''
She will enroll in cosmetology school in the fall. ''I want to do color,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE MENU: At left, inside the Pierre Michel salon, where a shampoo, manicure and eyebrow adjustment are a few of the offerings.
DOWN TIME: A client during a delicate eyelash extension, which requires lots of patience, at Pierre Michel, which has a reputation as one of the city's most decadent salons.
 STYLE COUNCIL: Jerome Lordet, left, a stylist. The balayage process, center. Kenneth Tepper, right, another stylist at the salon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELOCATIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); CITIES (68%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



122 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Non-Economic Factors Handicap the Economy

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
Jonathan Weber is the editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Jonathan Weber writes a column for The Bay Citizen.
San Francisco's chief economist, Ted Egan, gave a pretty downbeat assessment of the region's economic outlook last week at a San Francisco Chamber of Commerce conference, citing the lack of employment growth and the anemic housing market as the major problems. That comes as no surprise.
But the contradictions of this recession were underscored when Mr. Egan noted that venture capital investment soared in the second quarter, and that industries like digital media, biotechnology and green energy are healthy and growing. 
So how could it be that the businesses that are generally seen as the key drivers of the local economy are doing well, but they haven't made a dent in unemployment, personal income, consumer spending and other measures of economic health?
In part it's because these industries are still small, despite their high glamour quotient, Mr. Egan said in an interview. But the key lies in the moribund housing market, and that in turn raises a lot of questions about our region's attitude toward population growth, quality of life and immigration.
In California more than anywhere else, real estate has always been the economy's secret sauce. Real estate speculation -- on the grand scale embodied in the great Los Angeles water grab that turned barren Southern California scrublands into prosperous farms and subdivisions, and on the small scale in which the modest Marin County house that Dad bought for $50,000 in 1960 is now worth a couple of million -- is a big factor in our historic prosperity.
In simple terms, California real estate has been such a good investment for such a long time because lots of people have been moving here, and they need to live somewhere. Most of the places that have had intensive real estate appreciation in recent decades -- many parts of California as well as Phoenix, Las Vegas and Florida -- are places with substantial in-migration. In many cases the speculation eventually got ahead of the population, but it was the belief in continued population growth that inflated the bubble.
People move to California for jobs, and certainly the postwar growth of the aerospace, technology and entertainment industries played a huge role in drawing people here. (And income growth from those businesses also drove real estate prices higher.)
But people move here for a lot of other reasons: the weather, new opportunities, political freedom, the raw energy of our great cities. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger mentioned in his talk at the same conference last week that he moved to California from Austria when he was 21 because he saw California as the land of opportunity.
A lot of Californians feel that the state is full-up, so to speak, and don't see the benefits of more population growth. Anti-immigrant sentiment, whether it's aimed at illegal border-crossers or professionals holding H1-B work visas or foreign students who would like to stay on after their visas expire, is partly a reflection of this feeling.
But new residents need all kinds of things, especially housing, and that supports prices. An International Monetary Fund study of global housing markets shows that every 0.25 percent increase in population growth leads to a 1 percent increase in housing prices.
Housing demand will increase even without immigration, as aging baby boomers and echo boomers create more ''empty nest'' households. Moreover, in some of the most attractive Bay Area communities, like San Francisco, the limited supply of housing will keep prices firm or rising (and real estate markets in these communities have indeed suffered much less than in other places).
But in much of the Bay Area, and especially on the fringes, there is plenty of supply, and thus increased demand is critical to a housing recovery.
Yet with immigration to the United States declining -- due to the weak economy, the crackdown on illegal immigration and post-Sept. 11 restrictions on who can enter the country -- and the decay of public services in California making the state less attractive relative to other parts of the country, it's not clear where that demand will come from.
Rising real estate prices have their downside, not least that they make it more expensive to do business. But as Mr. Egan said, toxic real estate loans are draining credit from the economy and dampening consumer confidence to such a degree that a housing recovery is critical to any broader economic recovery.
Whatever else you might think about immigration, or about the importance of spending money on quality-of-life infrastructure and services, they are ultimately the key to our economic health.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); IMMIGRATION (87%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



123 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: After a Life in Labor, a Union Leader Retires, Frustrated by the Movement's Troubles

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After 38 years as a gung ho trade unionist, Anna Burger is retiring -- with unmistakable frustration -- from her post as the highest-ranking woman in American labor movement history.
Ms. Burger, 59, is frustrated because she has dedicated her adult life to building the labor movement, but it has nonetheless grown smaller and weaker. Beyond stepping down as chairwoman of Change to Win, a federation representing 5 million union members, she is also retiring from her job of 14 years as secretary-treasurer of the powerful Service Employees International Union, representing nearly 2 million janitors, hospital employees and others workers.
Ms. Burger said many women still had far too hard a time balancing job and family. She is also frustrated that union membership continues to shrink even when workers should in theory be flocking into unions during this time of stagnating wages. And the labor-friendly Democratic majorities that unions fought so hard to elect in the House and the Senate could disappear in this November's elections. 
''The labor movement gave me a chance for a better life,'' said Ms. Burger, the daughter of a Teamsters truck driver. ''I worry whether the labor movement will continue to be able do that for a lot of people.''
Within labor, many critics say that Ms. Burger, like Andy Stern, the former service employees' president, was a divisive figure. She, like Mr. Stern, is often faulted for fomenting the schism in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. five years ago and for often bragging that the S.E.I.U. is the fastest-growing union with the biggest political war chest.
Ms. Burger, who first joined a union as a social worker in Pennsylvania, boasted, for instance, that were it not for the service employees' multiyear push, the health care overhaul would never have been enacted.
''We're the most successful union out there,'' she said. ''There are times people resent us for that.''
Ms. Burger had campaigned to succeed Mr. Stern after he announced his retirement in April. Viewing Ms. Burger as too top-down, many S.E.I.U. officials rallied behind a union executive vice president and the eventual winner, Mary Kay Henry. Ms. Burger quit the race, but stayed on as No. 2, although it seemed only a matter of time before she stepped down.
Ms. Burger was hazy about her future. She dropped hints that she hoped to land a job that brought unions together with other groups to build a progressive political majority -- a vision that clashes with the nation's recent rightward shift.
''For me,'' she said, ''there's an urgency to try to make sure we take advantage of having the best president we've had in my lifetime to make this country and make the world work best for everyone.''
Randel K. Johnson, senior vice president for labor policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said that Ms. Burger was not going to get her progressive majority, and that it was partly labor's fault.
''They certainly were successful in electing a more pro-union House and Senate,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''But their advocacy of the unpopular health care bill will mean losses this November for many House and Senate members who have traditionally supported unions.''
Ms. Burger has been an outspoken member of the president's Economic Recovery Advisory Board. She has urged President Obama to appoint a jobs czar ''who would focus on jobs, jobs, jobs'' and to adopt an industrial policy to rebuild America's sagging manufacturing base. She supports establishing a federal infrastructure bank that would spend hugely over the next decade to build roads, bridges and mass transit, creating millions of jobs.
Ms. Burger offered an explanation of why American workers were not rushing to embrace unions despite the tough economic times.
''They'll flock to unions when they don't feel so intimidated about supporting a union,'' she said. ''There's still a total assault by corporations to stop workers from having unions.''
Many union officials remain bitter that Ms. Burger helped lead the 2005 split in the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which many say embarrassed and weakened labor.
Ms. Burger is unrepentant. ''I don't have any second thoughts,'' she said, asserting that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. had lacked energy and vision.
She said that forming the breakaway federation fueled more union organizing by the Teamsters, for instance, among port truck drivers in Los Angeles. She also said that without the creation of Change to Win, Mr. Obama would never have won the presidency. She said that federation's endorsement of Mr. Obama in April 2008 was pivotal to his defeating Hillary Rodham Clinton in several crucial primaries.
Change to Win has fallen far short of its proclaimed goal of organizing 750,000 workers annually. ''There hasn't been the big increase in union membership that they had called for,'' said Peter Dreier, a labor expert at Occidental College.
Ms. Burger has often championed women's causes. She noted that while women were half the work force, they did far more than half the work because they not only work on the job, but do most of the cooking, cleaning and child-rearing at home.
''We have not developed public policies that support working women the way we should,'' she said. ''When women can be forced to work mandatory overtime when they have children at home and don't have access to child care, that's a huge problem.
''We're still lacking a lot of support mechanisms for women,'' she added. ''We're the only industrial nation that doesn't have paid maternity leave. Many businesses haven't stepped up, so the government needs to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anna Burger at an economic meeting during President Obama's campaign. Ms. Burger is retiring as chairwoman of Change to Win and secretary-treasurer of the service employees' union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); RANKINGS (89%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); WOMEN (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); HOSPITALS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHANGE TO WIN (83%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); ROBERT W BEST (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



124 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Despite Talk, Potential Rivals for Daley Stand Back

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS and MICK DUMKE

 BODY:
Many Chicago political axioms have come under assault from reformers and federal prosecutors in recent years, including ''Where's mine?'' and ''We don't want nobody nobody sent.'' But ''You can't beat somebody with nobody'' remains as true as ever with the 2011 mayoral election less than six months away.
Despite polls showing that he is less popular now than at any other point in his 21-year tenure, Mayor Richard M. Daley seems poised to glide into his seventh term over what appears to be weak opposition.
In a city where one Richard Daley or the other has been mayor for 42 of the last 55 years, it is much easier to criticize the boss than to find a candidate who can raise the campaign money, build the citywide stature needed, and clearly articulate an alternative plan to lead Chicago. The few who might be most capable are unwilling to cross Mayor Daley and prefer to wait until the 67-year-old mayor steps down voluntarily. 
Several potentially strong candidates did not deny that they would love to have the job -- but only if Mr. Daley bows out, something he appears unlikely to do now, if ever. In that category are Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff and former mayoral campaign aide, as well as Tom Dart, the Cook County sheriff.
A handful of local elected officials, including Alderman Scott Waguespack (32nd Ward), Alderman Robert Fioretti (2nd Ward) and State Representative John Fritchey have ramped up their criticisms of Mr. Daley. None have committed to challenging the mayor in the February election, but if they do, even some mayoral critics doubt that they could mount an effective insurgent campaign.
Pondering their options most loudly are Mr. Fioretti and Mr. Waguespack, two freshmen City Council members. At this point, though, both are circulating nominating petitions to run for re-election as aldermen, not for mayor. Each would begin a mayoral campaign with a fraction of the nearly $1.5 million that Mr. Daley has in his political war chest, state records show.
''It's almost like Daley wins by default,'' said Don Rose, a veteran Democratic consultant. ''He is more vulnerable than four years ago. I just don't see a formidable figure who is willing to challenge him.''
Mr. Rose played central roles in two of the biggest political surprises in the city's history: Jane Byrne's election as mayor in 1979, and the 1983 victory of Harold Washington, the first black mayor of Chicago. But this time, Mr. Rose said, he does not see the makings of a close race, much less an upset.
''It's going to take something more than a Fioretti or a Waguespack,'' he said.
As has been his custom, Mr. Daley has not yet announced whether he will run for re-election. But William Daley, the mayor's brother and longtime political adviser, told the Chicago News Cooperative last week that he expected him to seek a seventh term. William Daley said he was skeptical that potential challengers who have recently emerged would end up on the ballot next year.
''We've seen this movie six times,'' he said.
Other mayoral supporters echoed William Daley's expectation that his brother was not ready to step down from the office he has held without serious challenge since 1989.
''He seems totally engaged in it -- not that he enjoys every minute,'' said John Schmidt, the mayor's first chief of staff. ''The economy has made his job much more difficult.''
The mayor's notoriously prickly skin is pulled thinner than ever as the city's budget deficit grows to record levels. The dire economic times have emboldened some elected officials to increasingly distance themselves from the mayor.
''He doesn't have a vision for the city,'' Mr. Waguespack said in an interview last week.
The alderman has sought to capitalize on his vote against the unpopular privatization of the city parking meter system. He was one of only five council members to oppose the $1.15 billion deal in December 2008.
Mr. Fioretti sharply criticized the mayor at a recent fund-raiser, blaming him for the decline in the number of police officers and for the city's budget crunch.
''We're facing a $654.7 million deficit because of mismanagement,'' he said. ''I will tell you, mismanagement not of one year, two years or this economic crisis, but of 20 years.''
Last month, the mayor made a surprise announcement that he would dedicate a park in Mr. Fioretti's ward, two days before a similar event the alderman had planned.
''He must be very frightened of something,'' Mr. Fioretti said, accusing the mayor of purposely upstaging him. ''That or he's just being the child that he is.''
Greg Goldner, who ran the mayor's landslide re-election in 2003, said that many residents are discontented with the way things are, but that they would have to be convinced that a mayoral hopeful offered an alternative vision for leading Chicago.
''These self-proclaimed challengers need to be more sophisticated in their criticisms if they want to connect with voters,'' Mr. Goldner said.
Mr. Daley's lopsided re-election victories have usually been against black challengers like Dorothy Brown, the clerk of the Cook County Circuit Court, who ran in 2007. No major black or Hispanic leaders have suggested that they would run this time, with Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. remaining quiet since his name surfaced in the corruption case of former Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich.
Alderman Howard Brookins (21st Ward) said black business leaders would not want to contribute to a rival for fear of reprisal by the mayor. Before supporting someone else, Mr. Brookins said, ''they're going to wait until it's the bottom of the ninth to see if he's still in the game before they'd be willing to back him.''
The mayoral aspirants who have already announced that they plan to run are William Walls III, a perennial candidate, and Jay Stone, who said he worked as a clinical hypnotherapist. Mr. Walls finished last in the three-way race for mayor in 2007, with 9 percent of the vote, and Mr. Stone lost a 2003 bid for a council seat.
Candidates have until Nov. 22 to file nominating petitions for the Feb. 22 nonpartisan primary. If nobody wins a majority, the top two vote-getters would have a runoff election in April.
The mayor said last week that it was too early to make political plans and declined to comment specifically on potential challengers. He is only slightly more willing to address policy criticisms from would-be opponents.
Without naming names, he responded heatedly last month to proposals from Mr. Fritchey, who questioned the administration's use of tax increment financing, a development tool relying on tax dollars that would otherwise go to schools.
Mr. Daley held three news conferences across the city in the span of a few days to point out that he had used tax increment financing to complete such projects as a new playground at a North Side park. And the visibly irritated mayor told reporters he would not heed fiscal advice from state and federal lawmakers -- or from the city's economically struggling news media.
Mr. Fritchey suggested that the mayor's reactions reflected an inflexible management style. ''Not every proposed idea has to be seen as a challenge to his authority, but that has been the case,'' he said.
Mr. Fritchey said he thought Chicagoans were more interested in having ''a viable option for mayor'' than they had been in decades. Although he said some had approached him about being that alternative to Mr. Daley, Mr. Fritchey quickly added that he was merely thinking about running and would only do so ''if I felt there was a broad core of support out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Richard M. Daley, top, has low poll numbers, but so far he has no strong challenger for re-election in 2011. Increasingly vocal critics include Alderman Scott Waguespack, in cap
Alderman Robert Fioretti
 and State Representative John Fritchey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) CHART: The Money Race: Mayor Richard M. Daley would start the Feb. 22 election campaign with a huge advantage in political cash over potential challengers. (Source: Illinois State Board of Elections) (A25B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PETITIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); HISTORY (65%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



125 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Stand and Deliver

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is an economics columnist for The Times and a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
The start of the school year brings another one of those nagging, often unquenchable worries of parenthood: How good will my child's teachers be? Teachers tend to have word-of-mouth reputations, of course. But it is hard to know how well those reputations match up with a teacher's actual abilities. Schools generally do not allow parents to see any part of a teacher's past evaluations, for instance. And there is nothing resembling a rigorous, Consumer Reports-like analysis of schools, let alone of individual teachers. For the most part, parents just have to hope for the best. 
That, however, may be starting to change. A few months ago, a team of reporters at The Los Angeles Times and an education economist set out to create precisely such a consumer guide to education in Los Angeles. The reporters requested and received seven years of students' English and math elementary-school test scores from the school district. The economist then used a statistical technique called value-added analysis to see how much progress students had made, from one year to the next, under different third- through fifth-grade teachers. The variation was striking. Under some of the roughly 6,000 teachers, students made great strides year after year. Under others, often at the same school, students did not. The newspaper named a few teachers -- both stars and laggards -- and announced that it would release the approximate rankings for all teachers, along with their names.
The articles have caused an electric reaction. The president of the Los Angeles teachers union called for a boycott of the newspaper. But the union has also suggested it is willing to discuss whether such scores can become part of teachers' official evaluations. Meanwhile, more than 1,700 teachers have privately reviewed their scores online, and hundreds have left comments that will accompany them.
It is not difficult to see how such attempts at measurement and accountability may be a part of the future of education. Presumably, other groups will try to repeat the exercise elsewhere. And several states, in their efforts to secure financing from the Obama administration's Race to the Top program, have committed to using value-added analysis in teacher evaluation. The Washington, D.C., schools chancellor, Michelle Rhee, fired more than 100 teachers this summer based on evaluations from principals and other educators and, when available, value-added scores.
In many respects, this movement is overdue. Given the stakes, why should districts be allowed to pretend that nearly all their teachers are similarly successful? (The same question, by the way, applies to hospitals and doctors.) The argument for measurement is not just about firing the least effective sliver of teachers. It is also about helping decent and good teachers to become better. As Arne Duncan, the secretary of education, has pointed out, the Los Angeles school district has had the test-score data for years but didn't use it to help teachers improve. When the Times reporters asked one teacher about his weak scores, he replied, ''Obviously what I need to do is to look at what I'm doing and take some steps to make sure something changes.''
Yet for the all of the potential benefits of this new accountability, the full story is still not a simple one. You could tell as much by the ambivalent reaction to the Los Angeles imbroglio from education researchers and reform advocates. These are the people who have spent years urging schools to do better. Even so, many reformers were torn about the release of the data. Above all, they worried that although the data didn't paint a complete picture, it would offer the promise of clear and open accountability -- because teachers could be sorted and ranked -- and would nonetheless become gospel.
Value-added data is not gospel. Among the limitations, scores can bounce around from year to year for any one teacher, notes Ross Wiener of the Aspen Institute, who is generally a fan of the value-added approach. So a single year of scores -- which some states may use for evaluation -- can be misleading. In addition, students are not randomly assigned to teachers; indeed, principals may deliberately assign slow learners to certain teachers, unfairly lowering their scores. As for the tests themselves, most do not even try to measure the social skills that are crucial to early learning.
The value-added data probably can identify the best and worst teachers, researchers say, but it may not be very reliable at distinguishing among teachers in the middle of the pack. Joel Klein, New York's reformist superintendent, told me that he considered the Los Angeles data powerful stuff. He also said, ''I wouldn't try to make big distinctions between the 47th and 55th percentiles.'' Yet what parent would not be tempted to?
One way to think about the Los Angeles case is as an understandable overreaction to an unacceptable status quo. For years, school administrators and union leaders have defeated almost any attempt at teacher measurement, partly by pointing to the limitations. Lately, though, the politics of education have changed. Parents know how much teachers matter and know that, just as with musicians or athletes or carpenters or money managers, some teachers are a lot better than others.
Test scores -- that is, measuring students' knowledge and skills -- are surely part of the solution, even if the public ranking of teachers is not. Rob Manwaring of the research group Education Sector has suggested that districts release a breakdown of teachers' value-added scores at every school, without tying the individual scores to teachers' names. This would avoid humiliating teachers while still giving a principal an incentive to employ good ones. Improving standardized tests and making peer reports part of teacher evaluation, as many states are planning, would help, too.
But there is also another, less technocratic step that is part of building better schools: we will have to acknowledge that no system is perfect. If principals and teachers are allowed to grade themselves, as they long have been, our schools are guaranteed to betray many students. If schools instead try to measure the work of teachers, some will inevitably be misjudged. ''On whose behalf do you want to make the mistake -- the kids or the teachers?'' asks Kati Haycock, president of the Education Trust. ''We've always erred on behalf of the adults before.''
You may want to keep that in mind if you ever get a chance to look at a list of teachers and their value-added scores. Some teachers, no doubt, are being done a disservice. Then again, so were a whole lot of students.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK STEINMETZ) DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOMOCO)
 GRAPHIC: 75% of public-school parents say teachers' SALARIES should be tied to students' ACHIEVEMENT. (GRAPHIC BY THE GEORGE GUND FOUNDATION. SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : PHI DELTA KAPPA/GALLUP POLL, JUNE 2010.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); STATISTICAL METHOD (52%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%)

ORGANIZATION: PHI DELTA KAPPA INTERNATIONAL (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); ARNE DUNCAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



126 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Endless War

BYLINE: By GARY J. BASS. 
Gary J. Bass, a professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton, is the author of ''Freedom's Battle'' and ''Stay the Hand of Vengeance.''

 BODY:
WASHINGTON RULES
America's Path to Permanent War
By Andrew J. Bacevich
286 pp. Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $25
In 1947, Hanson W. Baldwin, the hawkish military correspondent of this newspaper, warned that the demands of preparing America for a possible war would ''wrench and distort and twist the body politic and the body economic . . . prior to war.'' He wondered whether America could confront the Soviet Union ''without becoming a 'garrison state' and destroying the very qualities and virtues and principles we originally set about to save.''
It is that same dread of a martial America that drives Andrew J. Bacevich today. Bacevich forcefully denounces the militarization that he says has already become a routine, unremarked-upon part of our daily lives -- and will only get worse as America fights on in Afghanistan and beyond. He rips into what he calls a postwar American dogma ''so deeply embedded in the American collective consciousness as to have all but disappeared from view.'' ''Washington Rules'' is a tough-minded, bracing and intelligent polemic against some 60 years of American militarism. 
This outrage at a warlike America has special bite coming from Bacevich. No critic of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan could have brighter conservative credentials. He is a blunt-talking Midwesterner, a West Point graduate who served for 23 years in the United States Army, a Vietnam veteran who retired as a colonel, and a sometime contributor to National Review. ''By temperament and upbringing, I had always taken comfort in orthodoxy,'' he writes. But George W. Bush's decision to invade Iraq in 2003, Bacevich says, ''pushed me fully into opposition. Claims that once seemed elementary -- above all, claims relating to the essentially benign purposes of American power -- now appeared preposterous.''
From Harry S. Truman's presidency to today, Bacevich argues, Americans have trumpeted the credo that they alone must ''lead, save, liberate and ultimately transform the world.'' That crusading mission is implemented by what Bacevich caustically calls ''the sacred trinity'': ''U.S. military power, the Pentagon's global footprint and an American penchant for intervention.'' This threatening posture might have made some sense in 1945, he says, but it is catastrophic today. It relegates America to ''a condition of permanent national security crisis.''
Bacevich has two main targets in his sights. The first are the commissars of the national security establishment, who perpetuate these ''Washington rules'' of global dominance. By Washington, he means not just the federal government, but also a host of satraps who gain power, cash or prestige from this perpetual state of emergency: defense contractors, corporations, big banks, interest groups, think tanks, universities, television networks and The New York Times. He complains that an unthinking Washington consensus on global belligerence is just as strong among mainstream Democrats as among mainstream Republicans. Those who step outside this monolithic view, like Dennis Kucinich or Ron Paul, are quickly dismissed as crackpots, Bacevich says. This leaves no serious checks or balances against the overweening national security state.
Bacevich's second target is the sleepwalking American public. He says that they notice foreign policy only in the depths of a disaster that, like Vietnam or Iraq, is too colossal to ignore. As he puts it, ''The citizens of the United States have essentially forfeited any capacity to ask first-order questions about the fundamentals of national security policy.''
Bacevich is singularly withering on American public willingness to ignore those who do their fighting for them. He warns of ''the evisceration of civic culture that results when a small praetorian guard shoulders the burden of waging perpetual war, while the great majority of citizens purport to revere its members, even as they ignore or profit from their service.'' Here he has a particular right to be heard: on May 13, 2007, his son Andrew J. Bacevich Jr., an Army first lieutenant, was killed on combat patrol in Iraq. Bacevich does not discuss his tragic loss here, but wrote devastatingly about it at the time in The Washington Post: ''Memorial Day orators will say that a G.I.'s life is priceless. Don't believe it. I know what value the U.S. government assigns to a soldier's life: I've been handed the check.''
Bacevich is less interested in foreign policy here (he offers only cursory remarks about the objectives and capabilities of countries like China, Russia, North Korea and Iran) than in the way he thinks militarism has corrupted America. In his acid account of the inexorable growth of the national security state, he emphasizes not presidents, who come and go, but the architects of the system that envelops them: Allen W. Dulles, who built up the C.I.A., and Curtis E. LeMay, who did the same for the Strategic Air Command. Both of them, Bacevich says, would get memorials on the Mall in Washington if we were honest about how the capital really works.
The mandarins thrived under John F. Kennedy, whose administration ''was fixating on Fidel Castro with the same feverish intensity as the Bush administration exactly 40 years later was to fixate on Saddam Hussein -- and with as little strategic logic.'' The Washington consensualists were thrown badly off balance by defeat in Vietnam but, Bacevich says, soon regained their stride under Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton -- setting the stage for George W. Bush. Barack Obama campaigned on change and getting out of Iraq, but when it comes to the war in Afghanistan or military budgets, he is, Bacevich insists, just another cat's-paw for the Washington establishment: ''Obama would not challenge the tradition that Curtis LeMay and Allen Dulles had done so much to erect.''
Bacevich sometimes overdoes the high dudgeon. He writes, ''The folly and hubris of the policy makers who heedlessly thrust the nation into an ill-defined and open-ended 'global war on terror' without the foggiest notion of what victory would look like, how it would be won and what it might cost approached standards hitherto achieved only by slightly mad German warlords.'' Which slightly mad German warlords exactly? Bacevich, an erudite historian, could mean some princelings or perhaps Kaiser Wilhelm II, but the standard reading will be Hitler.
And he underplays some of the ways in which Americans have resisted militarism. The all-volunteer force, for all its deep inequities, is a testament to American horror at conscription. He never mentions Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the great New York senator who fought government secrecy and quixotically tried to abolish the C.I.A. after the end of the cold war. Although Bacevich admires Dwight D. Eisenhower for his farewell address warning against the forces of the ''military-industrial complex,'' he slams Eisenhower for enabling those same forces as president. Yet the political scientist Aaron L. Friedberg and other scholars credit Eisenhower for resisting demands for huge boosts in defense spending.
Bacevich, in his own populist way, sees himself as updating a tradition -- from George Washington and John Quincy Adams to J. William Fulbright and Martin Luther King Jr. -- that calls on America to exemplify freedom but not actively to spread it. It isn't every American's tradition (and it offers pretty cold comfort to Poles, Rwandans and Congolese), but it's one that's necessary to keep the country from going off the rails. As foreign policy debates in the run-up to the November elections degenerate into Muslim-bashing bombast, the country is lucky to have a fierce, smart peacemonger like Bacevich.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Air Force B-52 Stratofortress over South Vietnam in 1965
Gen. Curtis LeMay in 1963
and Allen Dulles in the 1950s. (PHOTOGRAPHS, FROM LEFT: U.S. AIR FORCE VIA GETTY IMAGES
KEYSTONE/GETTY IMAGES
 AND AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARMIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); VIET NAM (54%)

TITLE: Washington Rules: Americas Path to Permanent War (Book)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



127 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Many High-Paid Public Workers Live Elsewhere

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LESLY STEVENS. 
estevens@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Morris Tabak, assistant chief of the San Francisco Police Department, is one of the highest-paid employees San Francisco has ever had.
Mr. Tabak earned $425,558 in 2009, according to city payroll records. After 32 years on the force, he announced his retirement this month. His annual payment from the city's pension fund will be approximately $225,000. With that and San Francisco's generous retiree health care package, compensation to Mr. Tabak will quickly climb into the seven figures.
But there is a hidden cost to the city beyond Mr. Tabak's generous salary and pension benefits: Mr. Tabak owns a home, pays property taxes and, presumably, does most of his shopping in a residential community in San Mateo County, about 20 miles south of the city.
The net effect is that most of the economic activity generated by Mr. Tabak's salary and benefits will take place outside San Francisco. 
Mr. Tabak, who declined to be interviewed, is hardly alone. An analysis by The Bay Citizen of San Francisco's payroll and employee-residency data shows that the city's highest-paid employees tend to live outside the city limits, while the lowest-paid ones, on average, make their homes in San Francisco. According to the data, 56 percent of public employees -- and three-quarters of the police officers -- reside outside the city.
The data appear to contradict the common belief -- asserted most recently by Mayor Gavin Newsom during a visit to The Bay Citizen newsroom -- that few public employees can afford to live in notoriously expensive San Francisco.
By law, San Francisco's public employees (though not the city's elected officials) are free to live wherever they want. A section of the state's Constitution bars local governments from requiring residency for public employees, though they can be required to live within a ''reasonable distance.''
But the flight of so much capital -- San Francisco will spend $2.6 billion this year on salaries, benefits and pension-fund contributions -- adds another dimension to the city's efforts to grapple with one of the worst budget crises in its history.
It has long been known that San Francisco's public employees are well-paid, averaging $87,000 a year. But the data indicate that most of that income leaves the city with the evening commute. According to calculations, the net outflow this year will be $1.8 billion. Workers may buy lunch and lattes, or an occasional dinner or drinks, near the Civic Center, but the bulk of their income is spent near their homes.
''The main advantage of having employees reside within the city is that a good chunk of their personal and family spending would be localized,'' said Sean Randolph, president of the nonpartisan Bay Area Council Economic Institute, a business-oriented public-policy group. A disadvantage to their living outside, Mr. Randolph said, is that those employees end up paying taxes to other communities.
The $1.8 billion outflow is certainly not the cause of the city's budget shortfall, but it does not help. The cost of supporting these public employees is largely borne by San Francisco's 700,000 adult residents. The $2.6 billion in employee costs does not include the city's pension fund disbursements: $742 million to more than 23,000 beneficiaries in 2009. Nearly $500 million of that was sent to pensioners living in other cities.
Then there is another $4 billion in unfunded retiree health-care liabilities, which is ''an immense number,'' said Eric Hoffmann, a San Francisco-based senior vice president with Moody's Investor Service. ''San Francisco is very generous in its post-retirement benefits.''
Moody's has a ''negative outlook'' on the city's creditworthiness. If that rating is downgraded, San Francisco will pay higher interest on its debt payments, which are about $300 million this year.
The issue is not unique to San Francisco. Other municipal governments have tried over the years to devise ways to capture income from workers who do not live in the cities that employ them. These measures have taken the form of residency requirements, commuter taxes and higher payroll taxes. But these terms are not presently part of the political or economic vocabulary of the Bay Area.
''We are not hostile to people who do not live in the city,'' says Tony Winnicker, spokesman for San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom. ''Non-residents--including city workers--contribute billions to our city on an annual basis.''
That doesn't mean that the city doesn't see potential benefits in requiring other, private-sector employers to hire local. The mayor's office has been working with Supervisor John Avalos, who is preparing legislation to require private contractors and developers working on city-financed construction projects in San Francisco to employ crews made up at least half by city residents.
''We are trying to make sure we are keeping money in San Francisco,'' Mr. Avalos said. ''When those jobs go to San Franciscans, we know the money stays in the local economy. There is a multiplier effect.''
Employees of the city and county of San Francisco earned more than the county average in all nine Bay Area counties in which they reside, the data show. In San Francisco, where the average 2008 income was $72,712, roughly 10,000 municipal employees residing within the city made an average of $83,000.
The average San Francisco city employee residing in Sonoma County made $118,000. That is about two-and-a-half times the county average per-capita income, according to 2008 United States Commerce Department data.
In Solano County, the 914 San Francisco city employees made an average of $87,000 -- more than twice the county average. The nearly 5,300 San Francisco employees residing in San Mateo County earned $89,000 -- 21 percent more than the county average.
As San Francisco's budget woes mount, the city is embroiled in a fight over whether to force existing public employees, most of whom live outside the city, to make greater contributions to pay for their pensions and other benefits. (New hires already face higher contributions, thanks to a health care measure that was passed in 2008 and a pension measure passed in June 2010.)
Proposition B, the November ballot measure, would require greatly increased contributions. Its lead proponent, Jeff Adachi, the public defender, said it would save San Francisco $120 million to $170 million a year. Public-employee unions and most political leaders vehemently oppose Proposition B. No matter where they call home, city employees are upset about the toll the measure would have on their finances.
Lorraine Thiebaud, a 63-year-old trauma nurse for more than two decades at San Francisco General, personifies the complexity of the issue. She earned $128,000 last year -- but she is the sole breadwinner for a family of four, and the high cost of living in the Bay Area drove her and her family far afield.
Raised in the Inner Sunset district, Ms. Thiebaud said she could not afford to live in San Francisco in the early 1980s, so she and her husband, a general contractor, settled in Berkeley. When the economy soured, Ms. Thiebaud's husband was out of work, and they moved even farther from San Francisco to save money.
Ms. Thiebaud now commutes via Amtrak from Placer County, northeast of Sacramento, to work double night shifts at San Francisco General, while her husband stays home to look after their two school-aged daughters. Ms. Thiebaud estimates that if Proposition B passes in November, she will face $12,000 to $15,000 in increased pension and health-care contributions.
Ms. Thiebaud is working with her union to defeat Proposition B. But, in a phenomenon related to the fact that most city workers live outside San Francisco, the city's public employees are a tiny voting bloc in San Francisco, at most 2 percent of registered voters.
So while Ms. Thiebaud's fate is tied to the political wrangling of San Francisco, she will not vote against Proposition B. She is registered in Placer County, 125 miles away.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Public employees in San Francisco are well-compensated, in retirement as well as on the job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) CHART: Where San Francisco City Employees Live: Some of the highest-paid city employees live the farthest from City Hall. (Sources: San Francisco Department of Human Resources, City Controller's Office)
 MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); FAMILY (71%); PROPERTY TAX (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



128 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours: Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
LIKE the high-tech companies that give this lush region its name, Silicon Valley thrives on reinvention. Situated just south of San Francisco Bay, the valley was once an agricultural cradle, home to orchards and vineyards. These days, of course, it bears fruit of a different sort, as the home of tech giants like Apple, Google and Intel. Buoyed by the resilience of tech companies, the valley's dozen or so cities, which include Mountain View and Palo Alto, have managed to sidestep the recession, continuing their shift from corporate strip malls to urban hubs. The valley now buzzes with cultural spaces, lively restaurants and a hyper-educated workforce that has no problem keeping up.
Friday
4 p.m. 1)BETTING ON BOUTIQUES 
San Jose may still call itself ''the capital'' of Silicon Valley, but the picturesque town of Los Gatos is emerging as its trendier ''downtown,'' with its historic cottages and upscale boutiques. Fashionable shoppers flock to Salt (78 West Main Street; 408-395-0800; shop-salt.com), a women's boutique that carries California labels like Vince and Black Halo, and Infiniti Boutique (120 West Main Street; 408-399-7071) for its mix of European clothes and accessories. The people cruising the streets in Los Gatos give off a vibe that matches the bright, charming town, which is full of surprises off the main drag.
6 p.m. 2) BARSTOOL PITCH
Sand Hill Road is one the valley's main arteries, cutting through Palo Alto, Menlo Park and Stanford University. As the weekend gets under way, follow the stream of Prius hybrids, Mercedes coupes and the occasional Tesla electric car to Madera, a new restaurant and bar at the Rosewood Sand Hill hotel (2825 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park; 650-561-1500; rosewoodsandhill.com). The indoor-outdoor bar is a hot spot for venture capitalists to unwind and gossip, as they survey their domain on a terrace that looks out on the surrounding mountains. Down a cocktail or three, and find your pluck to pitch that brilliant Web idea you had.
8 p.m. 3)AMERICAN FARE 2.0
St. Michael's Alley (140 Homer Avenue, Palo Alto; 650-326-2530; www.stmikes.com) seized a page straight out of the valley playbook last year by reinventing itself and moving to an ambitious new home, a few blocks off crowded University Avenue in Palo Alto. Two and half years in the making, the restaurant now has three elegant dining areas, including a bar anchored by an artful hunk of walnut. The business casual attire matches the informal cuisine, which leans toward Californian and American fare. Dishes include a cider-cured center-cut pork chop with chipotle barbecue sauce and buttermilk mashed potatoes ($27).
10 p.m. 4)NUTS AND CIGARS
Shame on Stanford University's students for allowing such tame bars along their home turf, University Avenue. For a more energized crowd, head to nearby California Avenue. A favorite among Silicon Valley's young titans is Antonio's Nut House (321 California Avenue, Palo Alto; 650-321-2550; antoniosnuthouse.com), a low-key neighborhood bar where patrons can chuck their peanut shells on the floor, scribble on the walls and take a photo with a caged ''gorilla.'' Down the road is La Bodeguita del Medio (463 California Avenue, Palo Alto; 650-326-7762; labodeguita.com), a Cuban-style bar and restaurant that serves tall glasses of rum, along with hand-rolled cigars.
Saturday
9 a.m. 5)GOOGLE STREET VIEW
Unless you're the next Mark Zuckerberg, the high-tech campuses that dot the valley are off-limits. But there are ways to sneak a look. For a glimpse of the Googleplex (1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View), the headquarters-cum-playground of Google, drive north on Shoreline Boulevard until you see a pair of colorful towers rising on your left. There's a small public park next to the entrance that peeks inside the laid-back campus. Grander views can be found through Airship Ventures (Building 20, South Akron Road; Moffett Field; 650-969-8100; airshipventures.com), a tour company that offers rides aboard a 246-foot-long airship. Tours, starting at $199 for a 30-minute ride, glide over geek hot spots like Apple's shimmering headquarters and Larry Ellison's 23-acre Japanese-style compound. The airship travels all along the West Coast, so check its Web site beforehand for schedules.
Noon 6)CAFETERIA FOOD
Some chefs parlay a reality show into a restaurant. Charlie Ayers used his stint as the top chef of the Googleplex cafeteria -- and a few of his Google shares -- to open Calafia Cafe (855 El Camino Real, Palo Alto; 650-322-9200; calafiapaloalto.com). The restaurant echoes the locally sourced philosophy that Mr. Ayers espoused at Google. It is split down the middle between a sit-down restaurant and to-go counter. Try the ''really angry'' pork tacos with minced habanero peppers and queso fresco ($12) or the tempura-battered chicken and waffles with bacon-studded pancakes ($13).
3 p.m. 7)COMPUTERS 101
The term ''Silicon Valley'' may have been coined in the early 1970s but the region's tech timeline goes way back. For a self-guided tour of computer lore, start at 367 Addison Avenue in Palo Alto, site of the humble wood garage where Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard started their company in 1939. Next, drive by 391 San Antonio Road in Mountain View, a squat, dilapidated produce shop that housed the first true silicon start-up -- Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory -- in 1955. Finally, swing by 844 Charleston Road in Palo Alto, an office building where Fairchild Semiconductor invented a commercial version of the integrated circuit in 1959. Much of that history is now lovingly captured at the Computer History Museum (1401 North Shoreline Boulevard, Mountain View; 650-810-1010; computerhistory.org), which plans to open a major exhibition on the first 2,000 years of computing next year.
8 p.m. 8)VIETNAMESE PLATES
Thanks to Google and its army of millionaires, Castro Street, the main drag in Mountain View, has undergone a culinary and night-life revival. Among the more bubbly spots is Xanh (110 Castro Street, Mountain View; 650-964-1888; xanhrestaurant.com), a sprawling Vietnamese fusion restaurant with a handsome patio and dining rooms bathed in green and blue lights. The playful names on the menu -- Duck Duck Good ($24) -- and cocktails -- Good Ruck ($9) -- fail to capture the elegance of the dishes, plated in delicate fashion with exotic sauces. On weekends, the bar/lounge turns into a quasi-nightclub, with D.J.'s and more cocktails.
10 p.m. 9)GEEK TALK
Sometime in April, an Apple software engineer lost an iPhone 4 prototype at Gourmet Haus Staudt (2615 Broadway; gourmethausstaudt.com), a German beer garden in Redwood City. Images of the prototype were splattered on Gizmodo, foiling the company's well-known obsession with secrecy. The beer garden has since shaken off its notoriety and remains a low-key place for engineers to gab about new software compilers, their Python wizardry and Android A.P.I.'s.
Sunday
9 a.m. 10)LOCAL HARVEST
Farmers' markets dot the valley on Sundays. One of the most bountiful is in the parking lot of the Caltrain Station in Mountain View (600 West Evelyn; 800-806-3276; cafarmersmkts.com), where flowers, fruits and vegetables are sold along with locally raised meats and artisanal cheeses. Vendors sell prepared foods as well, including homemade pork dumplings and fresh samosas.
11 a.m. 11)HEAD FOR THE HILLS
It's called a valley for a reason. The Santa Cruz Mountains rise along the valley's western edge and provide a treasure hunt for people willing to explore. Wineries like the Thomas Fogarty Winery (19501 Skyline Boulevard; Woodside; 650-851-6777; fogartywinery.com) sit atop the mountains, offering unrivaled views of the valley. Hikes abound. The Windy Hill Open Space Preserve (openspace.org), a 15-minute drive from Stanford University in Portola Valley, has a range of trails that cut through 1,312 acres of grassland ridges and redwood forests. By the end of the hike, you'll be able to spot Stanford, NASA Ames Research Center and the mega-mansions like a valley pro.
IF YOU GO
The nearest commercial airport is Mineta San Jose International Airport. JetBlue offers daily direct flights from Kennedy Airport, starting at about $279 round-trip, according to a recent Web search. Another option is to fly into San Francisco, about 30 miles to the north. A car is needed to get around, although there is limited local train service.
The Avatar Hotel in Santa Clara (4200 Great America Parkway; 408-235-8900; avatarhotel.com) caters to geek travelers in name and spirit. Newly remodeled, the 168-room hotel has free Wi-Fi and iPod docking stations. Room rates start at $79.
The Rosewood Sand Hill in Menlo Park (2825 Sand Hill; 650-561-1500; rosewoodsandhill.com) opened last year with 121 rooms and a handful of villas, on a 16-acre estate with stunning rose gardens overlooking the hills. Room rates from about $335.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM LEFT: Checking out an '80s microchess game at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View
chicken and waffles at Calafia Cafe in Palo Alto
 at Gourmet Haus Staudt in Redwood City. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIANNE MILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (69%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (63%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



129 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SOCIAL Q'S; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Like, Yeah, Totally

BYLINE: By PHILIP GALANES

 BODY:
My brother's longtime girlfriend is in her late 20s, but you'd likely peg her much younger. The culprit? She makes the end of every statement sound like a question. (She also draws out the last word of every sentence like thisssss.) She's been unsuccessful in her career and is unemployed. I bet prospective employers find her speech childish and immature. Should I encourage my brother to point it out?
M. S. 
There's a fine line between wanting to help someone, and being so annoyed that you want to squeeze her face until her eyes pop out, riiiight? So, what's driving you, Sister Woman? Do you really want to help your brother's longtime gal find a job, or have you simply had it up to here with the baby talk?
Only you can answer that one. But if your aim is true, and you're tight with Miss Cindy Brady (which means that you could hear constructive criticism from her in return), then go for it: ''Sometimes, the way you speak undercuts how smart you are.'' Then give an example or two (hundred).
Avoid involving your brother. That seems like talking about her behind her back. And if you're just plain annoyed by her speech patterns, or aren't that close, leave this one alone.
Because as Bob Dylan might have sung: ''She may not speak just like a woman, but she can wreak havoc just like a little girl.''
Not Twins
My husband and I employ a part-time nanny during the summer. We give her a nice bonus on Labor Day, as a percentage of her wages. This year, we employed two teenage sisters from our neighborhood; the older girl worked three days a week, and the younger two. They were both great, but the older sister went above and beyond the call of duty. She'll receive a larger bonus because she worked more days, but can we go beyond that even, for her better work? Or would that cause sisterly strife?
Anonymous, Minneapolis
Not to worry! If what I read in the news about our kids' math skills is true, they'll never follow the calculations, anyway. But since you are probably among these girls' first employers, why not turn the bestowing of bonuses into a lesson on the daily grind? Speak with the girls separately: ''You did a terrific job, so we're giving you a bonus based on your wages. We're giving Edie (the Elder) a little more because she so exceeded our expectations in organizing activities and cleaning up around the house.''
That way, whether you hire the girls again, or they move on to greener minimum-wage pastures, they'll understand that some bosses correlate output with reward. (And don't think twice about potential sisterly strife. If not this, they will surely find something else to quarrel over.)
Along for the Ride
My boyfriend and I shared a rental car with another couple on a weekend trip. My boyfriend drove no less than 90 miles an hour on the way there and emerged unscathed, while the girl from the other couple received a whopping speeding ticket, despite her much slower pace, on the way home. Are we obliged to split the cost of the ticket? Do respective financial situations matter?
Anonymous, New York
Of course, financial situations matter. And since none could be worse than New York State's, you should double the fine that's mailed in with the ticket -- since your beau was speeding, too.
Technically, you and your boyfriend (and even the ticketed driver's partner) have no obligation to chip in one cent. Officer Friendly caught only one of you behind the wheel.
Still, in the spirit of mensch-iosity and the shared purpose of your weekend, why not pitch in, if you can swing it?
Don't Miss Curfew
I've had many disagreements with my ''Social Register'' boss, but this one you can settle: He claims that a cocktail party invitation for ''6 to 8 p.m.'' means you can arrive anytime during that period and stay as late as you want. I think it means you're expected to leave by 8. Is he right?
Victoria, Yardley, Pa.
Maybe they rolled that way on the Mayflower, Victoria, or in blue-blooded circles composed of Hiltons and Mortimers prior to this last, tacky batch. But these days, the clear meaning of the invite is: ''See you after 6, scram by 8!''
For help with an awkward social situation, send queries to socialq@nytimes.com, or Social Q's, The New York Times Style Department, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include a daytime phone number.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); WOMEN (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); US LABOR DAY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (68%) MINNESOTA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



130 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
A YEAR AFTER CONFLICT,
A Chinese Region Seethes
Since July 2009, when rampaging Uighur mobs set upon Han Chinese with iron bars and bricks in the country's Xinjiang region -- a scene that was reversed for several days when Han vigilantes sought revenge -- the Chinese authorities have arrested hundreds and tried to soothe frayed nerves with a $1.5 billion spending package. But the push has done little to repair the mutual distrust. PAGE 6
BRAZIL'S EDUCATION WOES
Perhaps more than any other challenge facing Brazil today, education is a stumbling block in the country's bid to accelerate its economy and establish itself as one of the world's most powerful nations. PAGE 6 
COLOMBIA'S WAR BALLADS
A Colombian musical genre called corridos prohibidos, or prohibited ballads, describes the exploits of guerrilla commanders, paramilitary warlords, lowly coca growers and cocaine kingpins. Given the graphic depiction of the drug trade, some radio stations in Colombia keep the songs off their playlists, fearful of violent reprisals that might result from glorifying one side or another in the country's four-decade war. PAGE 10
National
FINAL PLUGGING OF BP WELL
Could Occur This Week
After successfully replacing a crucial piece of equipment atop its stricken well in the Gulf of Mexico, BP prepared to conduct tests that should allow the company to complete the process of permanently plugging the well sometime this week. PAGE 18
A TEMPERED TROPICAL STORM
A diminished Tropical Storm Earl left barely a hint of damage after slapping at Nantucket and the outer reaches of Cape Cod, allowing coastal vacationers and business owners to exhale as a blue-sky Labor Day weekend got under way. PAGE 15
New York
CITY CHILDREN ARE HEAVIER
Than National Average
New York City schoolchildren are as heavy, or perhaps even heavier, than the national average, despite the Bloomberg administration's dogged efforts to improve the health of city residents, according to new data from the city's health department. PAGE 18
Sports
YOUNG TENNIS PLAYERS
Opt for More Seasoning
Bigger, stronger athletes have made tennis more physical, placing a premium on the strength that comes with maturity, pushing more young players to stay in college longer before going pro. PAGE 1
PITCHING IN AN ALTERED STATE
Baseball has not had so many no-hitters in a season since 1991, when seven were thrown. But 40 years ago, Dock Ellis of the Pittsburgh Pirates raised the degree of difficulty to new, well, heights. He threw a no-hitter while pitching under the influence of LSD. PAGE 2
N.F.L.'S OFF-FIELD BATTLES
Having achieved feel-good nirvana -- a Super Bowl victory by the formerly downtrodden Saints from luckless New Orleans -- the league is now lurching toward economic reality, with its labor contract ending after this season. George Vecsey, Sports of the Times. PAGE 9
Obituaries
LARRY ASHMEAD, 78
He was one of America's most successful book editors, handling a best-selling stable of writers that included Susan Isaacs, Tony Hillerman, Isaac Asimov and Quentin Crisp. PAGE 21
Sunday Business
S.E.C. PUSH FOR LESS RELIANCE
On Ratings Agencies
While Moody's Investor Service received only a wrist slap last week by the Securities and Exchange Commission for its role during the mortgage mayhem, it and the other rating agencies are still in the S.E.C.'s sights. The commission's proposed changes to rules on how asset-backed securities are issued show a concerted effort to reduce investor reliance on ratings involving these securities. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. PAGE 1
Arts & Leisure
THE UNFINISHED TALE
Of an Unlikely Hero
Known for the irascible persona he cultivated in ''American Splendor,'' Harvey Pekar, a writer whose comics were illustrated by other artists, was an improbable candidate for lasting glory. Now only his widow and the artists he worked with are left to narrate his final chapter, with nothing more at stake than the writer's modest legacy. PAGE 1
HBO ON THE BOARDWALK
The new HBO series ''Boardwalk Empire'' is set in Atlantic City in 1920, during the first year of Prohibition, and the show's creators have gone to painstaking lengths to recreate the era. PAGE 1
Magazine
TABLOID HACK ATTACK!
How a London paper listened in on the private voice mail messages of the rich and famous. PAGE 30
ITERATIONS OF SHATNER
The strange and multifarious career of William Shatner, an actor who always seems to be with us. PAGE 24
THE PEANUT SOLUTION
An easy-to-produce paste may represent the cure to malnourishment around the world. But who owns the recipe? PAGE 36
Book Review
FREEDOM TRAINS
In her first book, ''The Warmth of Other Suns,'' Isabel Wilkerson follows the journey of three Southern blacks, each representing a different decade of the Great Migration as well as a different destination. PAGE 1
STORMY WEATHER
The narrator of Giles Foden's new novel is a retired meteorologist looking back on the planning of the Normandy invasion, during which he and a team of scientists struggled to produce the reliable forecast that was required in choosing D-Day. PAGE 8
NO. 1 SLEUTH
Yunte Huang's book, ''Charlie Chan: The Untold Story of the Honorable Detective and His Rendezvous With American History,'' examines the character and the factors that account for his longevity. PAGE 12
Sunday Styles
VICTORIA BECKHAM:
Is She for Real?
She has mastered the argot of the cutting room with the same alacrity that has marked her other pursuits -- the voice and music lessons that laid the foundations for her career as the pop idol known as Posh Spice. In recent months, Ms. Beckham has emerged as an industry force, the wily maverick of New York Fashion Week. PAGE 1
A DAY TO DANCE OR WEEP?
Every year, there has been a strange confluence of events for those born on Sept. 11. It might be a point of pride to share a birthday with a literary lion like D. H. Lawrence, but sharing the day with a national tragedy is a problem. PAGE 1
Travel
WHERE THE EAST BEATS
'The Rest of London'
East London is a sprawling area known for its artists, anarchists and immigrants. Neighborhoods like Shoreditch, Bethnal Green and Hackney Wick have long been where members of the creative class could afford to live and work. Now it's also where they play, shop and eat. PAGE 9
6 DAYS, 6 STATES, 6 PEAKS
The world's Seven Summits -- the highest mountain on each continent -- were in the news this year when the Alaskan climber Vern Tejas set a record by ascending them all in just 134 days. Inspired by him, a reporter sets out to climb a few peaks of his own. PAGE 8
Week in Review
INSIDE CORRUPT-ISTAN
Since 2001, one of the unquestioned premises of American and NATO policy has been that ordinary Afghans do not view public corruption in quite the same way that Americans and others do in the West. But what if government corruption is more dangerous than the Taliban? PAGE 1
GOD AND POLITICS TOGETHER
It once looked as if President Obama might be able to end the nation's ideological and cultural polarization, but he has instead become engulfed in it, just like his two predecessors, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton. PAGE 1
Automobiles
BREAKING THE MOLD
Do you believe in love at first sight? Consider this: One look was about all it took when executives of Tata Motors, who in late 2007 were deciding whether to buy Jaguar from Ford Motor, saw sketches of what would become the 2011 XJ, a thoroughly modern, unfettered expression of luxury. PAGE 1
A CRASH, THEN A BILL
Ambulance charges have long been common, but fees for other responders are relatively new. The charge is variously called a ''crash tax'' or ''resource recovery,'' but in either case, motorists are billed for services they may have thought were covered by taxpayers. PAGE 1
Editorial
JOBS AND POLITICS
The latest jobs report was not as bad as economists had forecast. Unfortunately, exceeding low expectations and making progress are not the same thing. Week in Review, Page 7
BORDER NEWS
The border crackdown has been therapy for a nation spooked. But for solving the real problems of immigration, not so much. Week in Review, Page 7
A SOLUTION TO BEDBUGS
Government and industry need to expedite the search for better solutions to bedbugs. Week in Review, Page 7
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Hysteria about Islam is but a modern echo of past American worries about Catholics, Jews and others. Week in Review, Page 10
MAUREEN DOWD
Tony Blair on W., Dick and the mess they made in Iraq. Week in Review, Page 9
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
American has gone from being the world's superpower, with guns and butter for all, to being the frugal superpower. Get used to it. Week in Review, Page 8
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
Some call it opinion. Some call it point of view. Either way, some readers wonder what it is doing in the news pages. Week in Review, Page 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); MUSIC (90%); BASEBALL (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); LSD (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); CHILDREN (75%); COCAINE (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); MUSIC GENRES (69%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); WEATHER (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (66%); ATHLETES (66%); TENNIS (66%); SPORTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); US LABOR DAY (63%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (73%) COLOMBIA (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



131 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Coaches Take More Risks, But Perhaps Not Enough

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
When Dan Fouts played for the San Diego Chargers in the early 1980s, the N.F.L. was so conservative that Don Coryell's offense -- Air Coryell -- started a revolution merely by throwing on early downs because defenses were so predictably anticipating a run.
With the help of a series of rules changes, the Chargers nudged the N.F.L. toward becoming a passing league. They embraced aggressive play calling with such gusto that Fouts, who went into the Hall of Fame on the strength of his passing numbers, felt like a failure whenever the field-goal team came on the field.
Fouts analyzes the N.F.L. for CBS now, and although the pass has taken over football, the mind-set of the game has remained strikingly reserved. With the exception of a few high-profile recent examples -- New Orleans's shocking and successful onside kick to open the second half of last season's Super Bowl -- the N.F.L. still views risk as something to be avoided as assiduously as a holding penalty. 
Despite reams of data generated by economists and computer programmers indicating that coaches would improve their chances of winning by attempting more 2-point conversions or punting less often, the conventional wisdom of play calling remains more geared toward dodging disaster than encouraging innovation.
''Coaches are primarily conservative by nature,'' Fouts said. ''They don't want to lose their jobs because they made a stupid decision. They are making a lot of money.''
Fouts had the luxury of never wishing Coryell would think more creatively.
''My guy did,'' he said.
But as the high-powered offenses that Coryell helped spawn continue to exert their influence, having possession of the ball is increasingly valuable, encouraging at least a few secure coaches to buck convention for a chance to gain even a small edge. That was what drove the Saints' Sean Payton to go for the onside kick and, during the regular season, Bill Belichick's fourth-and-2 decision for New England against Indianapolis and Mike Tomlin's gamble on an onside kick after Pittsburgh, which had struggled to stop Green Bay, took a lead with about four minutes remaining.
Forget for a moment what this says about a coach's faith in his defense to stop some of the game's best quarterbacks. Consider, instead, what it may indicate about the future of play calling. If simply having the ball is so important, and if offenses are so good that points are more likely, might a coach have to channel his inner riverboat gambler more often to at least extend a possession? Might the mind-set rooted in 3 yards and a cloud of dust eventually give way to the go-go mentality of video gamers? Might the punt someday go the way of the leather helmet?
''You might have to steal a possession, or be more willing to go for it, to keep guys off the field,'' said Jon Gruden, a former Tampa Bay coach who is now a ''Monday Night Football'' analyst. ''It's no different than when you're in a foursome with Phil Mickelson or Tiger Woods -- you'll probably have to make some birdies and steal a shot or you're not going to win. You have to be a little more aggressive.''
Slowly, it seems, that message is getting through. In 2002, David H. Romer, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, published a paper after reviewing hundreds of games. He concluded that N.F.L. coaches choose to punt or attempt field goals on fourth down rather than try for the first down far more often than they should to maximize their chances of winning a game. The paper generated considerable discussion at the time, and not a small amount of derision in some quarters of the coaching community. Coaches, though, did not read it and fling open their playbooks. The status quo seemed as immovable as a 350-pound offensive tackle.
But statistics compiled by Brian Burke of AdvancedNFLstats.comindicate that while the rate of 2-point conversion attempts and onside kicks was unchanged from 2000 to 2008, offenses passed up the punt to try for the conversion on 12.4 percent of fourth downs. In 2009, the rate was 14.5 percent.
Conversion attempt numbers vary from year to year based on the number of opportunities and variations in circumstances, but the increase in 2009 encompassed nearly all field positions, Burke said, and the average to-go distances were no different from those for the rest of the decade. Interestingly, the rate of attempts in the first three quarters of games -- when principle was presumably driving the decision more than panic -- rose to 9.8 percent in 2009 from 7.4 percent earlier in the decade.
Still, Belichick, who earned an economics degree, shrugs off many statistics, holding his hands at incrementally greater distances to indicate that creating a blanket rule for going for it on fourth-and-1 will not work because the distance for the first down ranges from an inch to almost 2 yards. Coaches also take into consideration a range of factors, including the footing, which players are hurt and their trust in the defense. The former Miami Dolphins coach Don Shula, for instance, said he always felt comfortable going for it on fourth-and-goal from 1 or 2 yards because he had a virtual human bulldozer in Larry Csonka.
Though Belichick does not adhere to a formula, his play-calling penchants were influenced by the time he spent watching Wayne Hardin coach Navy in the early 1960s. Belichick was not yet a teenager, but he remembers Hardin's try-to-score philosophy, which apparently made a by-any-means-necessary impression on a boy who surprised an opponent 40 years later by intentionally taking a safety to change field position.
''I don't know what's usual or unusual,'' Belichick said. ''As a coach, you just try to win, whatever way there is. If you win and run the ball 70 times, there's nothing wrong with that.''
There is, though, an undeniable benefit some coaches cite when considering unorthodox plays. When Tomlin was a defensive assistant on Gruden's 2005 staff, he stood on the sideline while the Buccaneers scored with a minute left in the game to pull to 1 point behind Washington. The Redskins were called for a penalty during the extra-point attempt. Gruden, burdened by losses in the Buccaneers' previous two games, tried for the 2-point conversion and the win instead of settling for a nearly certain tie. Mike Alstott ran the ball in for a victory whose ripple effect reached Pittsburgh.
''It was electric,'' Tomlin said. ''That was one of those moments I'll never forget. I admired the belief, the fact that he didn't ponder the potential aftermath. It left an impression on me.''
Now, Tomlin acknowledges that unorthodox calls have a place in his playbook because in the era of parity, many games are determined by one play or the momentum it generates. He takes risks, he said, not just because the one play might offer the best chance of success, but also because ''it has the potential to be inspirational when they know you'll go to any lengths to win, even if it's far outside the box.''
That raises the question of why coaches are still not taking more risks, almost a decade after Romer's analysis and with the potential for immediate and long-term gains. Why, for instance, were only eight surprise onside kicks attempted last season, although Burke's analysis showed that from 2000 to 2008, when teams were likely to win given the score and the time remaining and they attempted the surprise kick, the recovery rate was 60 percent?
''That, to me, has been a puzzle,'' Romer said of the play calling. ''One possible answer is that these are difficult decisions, and a lot of our gut instinct is to be cautious, so they err on the side of not taking enough risks even though they're trying their hardest to win.
''Another possible answer is that despite all statements about winning being everything, they actually have preferences not just about the outcome of the game, but about how they get there. It feels more like winning by luck if you put everything on one play. But if you punt the ball away and send the defense to do their job and stop the other team on a full set of downs, it feels like it's more under your control.''
Perhaps so. But even coaches with an aggressive streak wonder how much further they are willing to go on the risk-reward continuum. The Jets' offensive coordinator, Brian Schottenheimer, who went for it on fourth-and-1 from San Diego's 29 while holding a 3-point lead with one minute to go in an A.F.C. divisional playoff game last season, conceded that he watched the Super Bowl and did not know if he would have had the nerve to try an onside kick like the Saints'.
For Romer, the desire to win will eventually overcome coaches' caution.
''If your offense got better and their offense got better, would you want to reconsider your decisions?'' he said. ''Unless a coach is insane, he's going to reconsider. But that doesn't mean he's making riskier decisions. Before, not going for it on fourth-and-1 was incredibly cautious. Now, it's not going for it on fourth-and-2 that's incredibly cautious. I've always thought that in the long run, the evidence of what's the best way to win is going to win out. I don't see how it can't. But it certainly doesn't look like we're seeing a rapid change.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (71%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (52%) LOUISIANA, USA (71%); NORTHEAST USA (52%); INDIANA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



132 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Q&A

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
The Parking Meter Will Keep Running
QMy wife and I are rent-stabilized tenants. Included in our lease is a parking spot in the building's garage. Our car was recently stolen and we might not replace it. Must we pay for the spot until our current lease expires?
A ''Yes, the writer must pay for the parking space until the end of the current rent-stabilized lease term,'' and may even have to continue to pay for the space under a renewal lease, said Thomas P. Higgins, a landlord-tenant lawyer in Manhattan. He noted, however, that since parking spaces are usually in high demand, the landlord might allow the writer to give up the space immediately. ''It's worth asking,'' he said. 
No Reserve Fund at New Condo
QI bought a condominium in a new-construction building two years ago. The sponsor did not create any emergency reserve fund for the building. Was there any legal obligation to do so?
A Allen H. Brill, a Manhattan co-op and condo lawyer, said that under state law and regulations relating to new-construction condominiums, a sponsor is not required to establish a reserve fund. In fact, the typical offering plan often explicitly states that no provision has been made for any contribution by the sponsor toward the reserve fund. But, Mr. Brill said, sponsors often provide for a ''working capital fund'' to be financed by unit buyers in the amount of about one or two months' common charges to meet immediate expenses.
Landlord's Liability in a Burglary
QI moved into my apartment at the beginning of August. The landlord knew the previous tenant left on bad terms and failed to replace locks after telling us he would. Later that month, our apartment was robbed by someone with keys to the outside and apartment doors. Can the landlord be held accountable for the value of our stolen property?
A ''I think there may be sufficient facts here to make a claim against the landlord for the damages,'' said Kent Karlsson, a Manhattan tenant lawyer. He said that the landlord's knowledge of the problems with the former tenant, along with his failure to change the locks, would bolster that claim. The tenant can sue the landlord in Small Claims Court if the loss is less than $5,000, and in civil court if it is more. ''The tenant should have proof of the facts he alleges, such as testimony or documents, and proof of the value of the property that was stolen,'' Mr. Karlsson said.
Dealing With Fees on Security Deposits
QA landlord of a rent-stabilized apartment is allowed to charge 1 percent of the security deposit as an administrative fee. If the interest rate on such a deposit is less than 1 percent, can the landlord take the fee from the deposit itself?
A ''The law that allows for the fee is imprecise and was enacted at a time when interest rates on security deposits were above 1 percent,'' said Robert Sokolski, a Manhattan lawyer who represents tenants. He said that while the law is as the writer states, the Legislature apparently believed that there would remain a balance to be paid to the tenant. So, Mr. Sokolski said the intent appears to limit the 1 percent to the interest paid on the account and not on the account itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (78%); BURGLARY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); SMALL CLAIMS COURTS (60%); WORKING CAPITAL (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



133 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS; What Is It About 20-Somethings?

 BODY:
As I read Robin Marantz Henig's discussion of 20-somethings, I was struck by the sense that the new life stage she was ascribing to this generation could actually be something that adults of all ages experience today: feeling unstable, struggling with ferocious competition for jobs, wondering if our relationships and finances can go the distance. I consider it progress that every young person doesn't feel the need to complete school, leave home, marry and have a child by a certain deadline. There is no ''one size fits all'' adulthood. Let's not forget it was the boomers who created the 50 percent divorce rate, who initiated the corporate-casual workplace, who made 60 the new 40. Today's 20-somethings just want what we all want: the opportunity to live life on our own terms and in our own time frames.
LINDSEY POLLAK New York 
If emerging adulthood is a new developmental stage, it is more likely a stage in society's evolution than in personal development. It is little wonder that Americans in their 20s tend not to fix their life plans early on. In recent decades, corporate downsizing, the offshore outsourcing of both blue-collar and professional jobs and the loss of corporate loyalty to (and pensions for) committed employees and retirees have rendered quaint the notion of a settled, lifelong career. Today's 20-somethings have observed their parents not only job-shifting but also career-shifting, many numbers of times over, to say nothing of the job insecurity in the current recession. This situation can make career commitments seem daunting. Meanwhile, for the poorer classes, little has changed over the years. The article's profile of Nicole is of a responsible young person forced into the job market very early in life to support her family. She, like generations before her, cannot reasonably be said to have an emerging adulthood. It's a luxury that she cannot afford.
PETER CLEARY YEAGER Department of Sociology Boston University Boston
As a psychologist who designs programs for young people in developing countries, I read Henig's article with keen interest but found Jeffrey Jensen Arnett's comment that the concept of ''emerging adulthood'' rarely applies to young people in developing countries inaccurate. One of the most significant security risks of our time is a youth bulge in countries with few economic and political opportunities. Because young people cannot find work, they are dependent on their families for longer periods of time, are unable to marry, as they can't pay a dowry, and are vulnerable to manipulation by political elites and extremist groups as they feel completely unconnected. In many developing countries, like Kosovo and Yemen, young people's transition into adulthood is getting longer and longer -- some say it lasts up to 10 years. And in countries with high rates of child soldiers, like Liberia and Uganda, numerous groups say we should extend the youth age range from the U.N. norm of 15 to 24 to 35. Donors around the world are financing programs to help this youth bulge transition successfully into adulthood.
REBECCA WOLFE Mercy Corps New York
While I am grateful for Henig's investigation of the ''in between'' character of the postadolescent preadult, I fear she gave short shrift to Erik Erikson's work on psychosocial development past childhood. She describes the ''intimacy versus isolation'' stage, a task to be negotiated by the young adult, solely in terms of whether to commit to a lifelong intimate relationship.
Erikson meant much more in his focus on the challenge of young adulthood than simply finding a lifelong mate. His view of intimacy included what at one point he referred to as ''intimacy with oneself, one's inner resources, the range of one's excitements and commitments.'' In his view, a person without a sense of self could not maturely commit to another person. It may well be that this lack of closeness with oneself -- inner resources, excitements and commitments -- might be a key to what we are seeing as the reluctance of the young adult that Henig so aptly describes.
THE REV. DANIEL R. HEISCHMAN Executive Director, National Association of Episcopal Schools New York
As an executive and performance coach with expertise in developing 20-somethings for a successful professional life, I address skill gaps and other ''delays'' that prevent many from entering the work force successfully. Whether ''emerging adulthood'' ultimately qualifies as a life stage, it's a distinction that resonates now. The discussion shouldn't focus on semantics but on how best to support young adults through these pivotal, impressionable, defining years.
The problem is really an opportunity, as we must implement programs to help emerging adults maximize this time and assume ownership of and responsibility for a fully realized life. Furthermore, why wouldn't we slice our life stages more thinly to better understand all the changes that accompany longer life expectancy and accelerated quests for meaning?
DANI TICKTIN KOPLIK Englewood, N.J.
Like many baby boomers, I took the college, career, marriage and children route with barely a detour or reflection. I love my life, and I have few regrets, but to follow a path so mandated by external role pressures and internal expectations, underlain by anxiety and fear of change, perhaps cheapens the essence of ''choice.'' In contrast, many adults in their 20s are making thoughtful life choices that exemplify flexibility, creativity and courage. Instead of struggling to determine whether this is because of social context or whether it represents a new life stage, perhaps we should simply applaud those among us who best exemplify the American ideals of liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
BILL DINGFELDER Bala Cynwyd, Pa.
Henig's article offers some interesting psychological and biological explanations for the arrested development of 20-somethings, and it legitimately observes that its causes may be many-sided. It is equally striking, however, for the explanations that it leaves out, especially long-term economic and political ones, and it makes the serious mistake of confining its commentary to the present recession. Over the past 30 years, the economic gap between the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans and the rest has steadily widened, making it harder and harder for families to save, to secure a decent livelihood and to put their children on the road to a truly independent early adulthood. Where one spouse could provide for a family 40 or 50 years ago, it now takes two. And as the purchasing power of educational grants has declined over the past two generations, young people plunge deeper and deeper into debt to finance their post-high-school education. Why should we be surprised that people in their 20s are adrift?
JOHN RABY Warren, N.J.
Something that is implicit in Henig's article needs to be made explicit. Many of the concepts used to understand this phase of life and treat the troubled emerging adults in the Yellowbrick program come from the field of psychoanalysis. The psychoanalyst Erik Erikson's developmental stages provided the foundation for subsequent efforts to understand development throughout the lifestyle. At Yellowbrick, the use of the relationship between staff and patients as a therapeutic instrument is a core psychoanalytic idea and vital to meaningful, deep change that psychoanalytically informed treatment can bring. The depiction of the Yellowbrick clinical conference demonstrates a recognition of complex issues: the subtleties of motivation and the location of personal agency -- in the self or other. Psychoanalysis, like any powerful explanatory theory, can be morphed into new situations and fresh applications. I applaud the complexity that is evident throughout Robin Marantz Henig's piece.
PRUDENCE L. GOURGUECHON Past President, American Psychoanalytic Association Member, Yellowbrick Advisory Board Chicago
Henig refers to young people moving in and out of dead-end career paths, including ''temporary (and often grueling) Teach for America jobs, forestalling the beginning of adult life.'' Much has been made by media and policy elites of Teach for America's potential to transform American education. Comments like Henig's bring to the surface the ideas that undergird support for Teach for America: teaching poor children is a challenging but rewarding volunteer opportunity that young folks can dabble in for a couple of years. As a veteran elementary teacher who began my career with a Teach for America job in Brooklyn in 1990, I am incensed by the idea that a teaching career forestalls ''the beginning of adult life.'' Teaching has been and continues to be a grueling but satisfying long-term career choice for me and millions of other American teachers. If we truly care about improving our schools in this country, we will begin to encourage talented young people to enter and remain in the teaching profession, not to see it as a way station for well-meaning kids on their way down some more important career path.
ERIK BERG Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Henig's article makes it sound as if my generation is overly dependent on our parents for money and incapable of living independently in the world. Perhaps this stereotype wouldn't bother me so much if it wasn't so pervasive, but I'm getting tired of being referred to as ''generation debt.'' The truth is most of us are gainfully employed, living on our own and, in some cases, even providing financial support to our parents. Why don't reporters talk more about that? Instead, mainstream media appear fixated on infantilizing us. It's starting to seem as if our parents' generation has the hang-up, not us.
KIMBERLY S. PALMER Bethesda, Md.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPHIC: MOST POPULAR LETTERS TOPIC: ''WHAT IS IT ABOUT 20-SOMETHINGS?'' BY ROBIN MARANTZ HENIG 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); FAMILY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); OFFSHORING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); KOSOVO (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



134 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS: Revenue Sharing, Revisited

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''The Case for Reviving Revenue Sharing'' (Economic View, Aug. 29), Robert Shiller hit the nail on the head.
When I was a journalist covering county government in the 1980s, the school gym was filled with citizens and leaders of nonprofit groups and government discussing the best ways to spend revenue sharing in the community. 
When I became a county legislator in the '90s, revenue sharing was gone. The gym was still full for budget hearings, but now full of acrimonious calls for lower tax rates -- with particular anger expressed by the working poor about those who received government services.
Today's general disenfranchisement from civil discourse and the work of government can be traced to the 1987 decision to stop spending tax dollars back in the communities that generate them. Now is the time to rectify that mistake.
Barbara Mink
Ithaca, N.Y., Aug. 29
To the Editor:
When will many economists realize that government, whether federal, state or local, really does not know how to create jobs, and that its efforts at doing so wind up destroying jobs?
There is only one way for government to ''create'' employment -- by hiring people directly, be they police officers, social workers or administrators. The money comes from tax dollars. But the tax revenue generated by that new employment is a small fraction of the cost of creating the jobs.
Instead, government should create a favorable climate -- through consistent policies in regulation and taxation -- that provides an incentive for businesses to invest in capital and in jobs that increase tax revenue.
Some people think that the government-job approach will somehow work, if we just get the equation right. But it will simply destroy our economy.
Michael Eckstut
Tiburon, Calif., Aug. 30
To the Editor:
How exactly would Professor Shiller's proposal to create jobs at the local level -- through federal revenue sharing -- be carried out? Surely, there would need to be some oversight of state and local governments.
After all, their record of fixing potholes of any kind is more dismal than Washington's.
Jerry Bader
Miami, Aug. 30
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



135 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Little Engines That Could: A Meeting of Microcars

BYLINE: By TUDOR VAN HAMPTON

 BODY:
CRYSTAL LAKE, Ill.
UWE STAUFENBERG just got his kicks on Route 66, and he did it at less than 30 miles an hour.
The microcar enthusiast from Stuttgart, Germany shipped his 2-cylinder 1962 Goggomobil pickup truck from Germany to the Port of Los Angeles last month. Leaving from the Santa Monica Pier he made the 2,600-mile pilgrimage to the Navy Pier in Chicago in the 13-horsepower truck, arriving in time for an international meet here, about 50 miles northwest of Chicago.
''It was the dream of a lifetime,'' said Mr. Staufenberg, 51. ''Even in Germany, people dream about doing Route 66 in a classic car.'' 
For other owners who joined Mr. Staufenberg en route to the microcar show, the trek was at times more of a nightmare. But not because the caravan puttered along at a top speed of just 45 m.p.h. or drove through 100-degree heat without air-conditioning.
''When we got to Kingman, Ariz., we ended up having to tear a motor down and completely rebuild it,'' said Larry Newberry, an enthusiast and parts dealer from Knoxville, Tenn. He organized the rally of eight tiny vintage cars, which included two Goggomobils, three Vespa 400s, two Fiat 500s and a BMW Isetta. It was a motley band of misfits, far from the classic Detroit machines, all tailfins and booming V-8s, that one imagines bounding down the historic highway.
One of the Vespas broke down first. ''The gentleman who built that engine put the pistons in backwards and caused a catastrophic failure,'' Mr. Newberry said.
Another glitch involved an old Fiat 500, whose transaxle blew up near Joplin, Mo. Fortunately, the owner lived not too far away, in Kansas City, and a family member quickly delivered a replacement. ''We did all the repairs at night and drove at day,'' Mr. Newberry said. ''So there were several nights I didn't get any sleep.''
Before the adventure got under way, even avid microcar collectors said that driving the historic route -- a 12-day trek that started on Aug. 8 -- couldn't be done in such austerity.
''Everybody said I'd lost my mind,'' Mr. Newberry said. ''Of course, that just added fuel to the fire, so I had to do it.''
His determination typifies this eccentric corner of the collector-car hobby, perhaps reflecting the can-do attitude that brought fuel economy, ingenuity and cheap wheels to the people of postwar Europe. Collectors today generally define microcars as those vehicles with engines smaller than 500 cc of engine displacement, while minicars sit in the range between 500 cc and 1,000 cc.
Mr. Staufenberg, who sells microcar parts online, gained an interest in the tiny vehicles at a young age, when they were commonplace in Europe. However, his first attempts to buy one were unsuccessful: his parents did not approve because of the microcars' reputation for breaking down and crumpling in accidents.
''They said, 'No way, boy. You're going to have a real car.'''
Mr. Staufenberg proudly displayed his Goggomobil pickup, wearing victory stickers and waving an American flag, at the Microcar/Minicar World Meet on Aug. 21-22. The meet showcased more than 300 tiny cars and had an estimated 10,000 visitors.
Roughly 280,000 Goggomobils -- sedans, coupes, vans and pickups -- were produced in Germany, making the brand one of the more successful entries among microcars. They are now sought-after collectibles, though they don't command as much spectator attention as the funkier models from the bubble-car genre.
''The Messerschmitts and the Isetta tend to be the most expensive models,'' said Larry Claypool, a mechanic and orphan-car collector in Frankfort, Ill.
Only a handful of Goggomobil pickups are known to exist. ''I've only seen one other,'' said Ken Weger, a local collector and microcar museum owner who sponsored the Crystal Lake meet. Last month in Monterey, Calif., RM Auctions sold a Goggomobil Transporter -- a utility van on which the pickup is based -- for $88,000. The seller was Bruce Weiner, who owns a large microcar museum in Madison, Ga.
Not all of these teensy cars command such huge prices. ''There are so many different brands of microcars,'' Mr. Claypool said. ''For instance, a nice Subaru 360 sedan -- it would have to be really off the end of the scale to be worth more than 5,000 bucks.''
More than 400 makes of microcars and minicars are thought to exist, enthusiasts say -- and they look forward to a day when small, simple, fuel-efficient cars make a comeback.
''They realize that you don't need an Escalade or an Explorer to drive back and forth to the grocery store,'' Mr. Claypool said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (71%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



136 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Town Houses With Benefits

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
WHETHER brownstone in Harlem, limestone on the Upper East Side or red brick in the West Village, town houses are a defining feature of many Manhattan neighborhoods. Yet they now make up less than 1 percent of the borough's real estate market.
And with the high cost of land and the expense of development, the opportunity for new town house construction is rare, which is why a handful of projects in the West Village and SoHo that include town houses, are attracting notice.
The developers and architects say they are propelling the town house into the modern era by providing the convenience and amenities of condominium living while working within the confines of historic neighborhoods.
Conceived at the height of the boom but only recently put on the market, the new town houses could hardly be less alike in style. At Soho Mews, on West Broadway between Grand and Canal Streets, the steel and glass design pays tribute to the cast-iron buildings that dominate the neighborhood. Superior Ink, on Bethune Street between Washington and West Streets, adheres to the architect Robert A. M. Stern's nostalgic bent. And a block away at 385 West 12th Street, the developer/architect FLAnk has clad four town houses and accompanying condos in glimmering copper that will change color as it ages. 
''One of the negatives of town houses in the past was that you also had to have a Jeeves,'' said Joanna Rose, the vice president of communications at Related, which developed Superior Ink, named after the factory that it replaced. ''We solve that problem.''
One way that has been done, in all three cases, is to connect the town houses to condominium projects.
A century ago, a young real estate broker named Douglas Elliman persuaded Senator Elihu Root of New York to move from his comfortable town house on Park Avenue to a new, luxurious apartment building at 998 Fifth Avenue -- by cutting his rent.
With its rusticated limestone exterior and elaborate copper cornices, 998 Fifth, designed by McKim, Mead & White to evoke an Italian Renaissance palazzo, was soon hailed as one of the grandest structures in the city. Other prominent New Yorkers, including Guggenheims and Vanderbilts, soon moved in, setting off a transformation in urban living, said Michael Kovner, a vice president of Brown Harris Stevens who teaches a course on the city's real estate history for the Real Estate Board of New York.
In his book ''Touring the Upper East Side: Walks in Five Historic Districts,'' Andrew S. Dolkart noted the transition. ''At the time 998 was built, apartment house living had not yet been widely accepted by the very wealthy, but as The Real Estate Record noted, 998 helped to change the 'deep-seated repugnance' that 'families of high social position' had for apartments,'' he wrote.
Since then apartment living has been ascendant, but the sales success of the new projects -- even at $5 million and up -- indicates that New York's moneyed elite still like their private homes. The average price for a Manhattan town house in 2010 was $4.422 million, according to data provided the Corcoran Real Estate Group. The properties have held their value well in the recession, falling only 11 percent from the peak average price of $4.972 million in 2008.
''One of the great reasons to buy a house is that they are really not making any more,'' said Patrick Vernon Lilly, a senior vice president of the Corcoran Group who specializes in town houses. ''We are seeing a handful coming on the market, but generally, there are more lost to development than gained. It is a dwindling market and that keeps the prices of town houses very high, compared to the value of condos and co-ops.''
The least expensive of the new town houses are at Soho Mews. Three of the five have already been sold, with the remaining two priced at $4.95 million and $5.675 million.
Soho Mews was developed by United American Land. Albert Laboz, who runs the company with his brothers, Jason and Jody, said that until now they had largely focused on retail.
Just as developers turned to the star power of architects like McKim Mead & White at the turn of the last century to draw in clients, Mr. Laboz hired Gwathmey Siegel & Associates, perhaps best known for the addition to the Guggenheim Museum in the early 1990s.
Robert Siegel, the principal and founding partner of the firm, said the challenge was to stay consistent with the ''vocabulary of the neighborhood'' without simply mimicking its surroundings.
''The facades of the buildings were conceived as a contemporary reinterpretation of the historical cast-iron and glass facades of neighboring buildings,'' Mr. Siegel said. This was accomplished, he said, by creating a large-scale grid of channel-shaped metal elements that frame frosted, clear and fritted glass. The development, built on a former parking lot, is made up of two buildings divided by a central courtyard, with the condos making up one building on West Broadway, and town houses the other, on Wooster Street.
Lady Gaga showed up for a viewing at Soho Mews in what appeared to be underwear, and complained that there were too many windows, said Jessica Geiger, a spokeswoman at Dan Klores Communications, the building's publicist. But Sean Sweeney, the director of the SoHo Alliance, a civic group, said the project was ''an architectural success'' and praised the developers for working with community leaders from the outset.
''They did it the right way,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''They came to us very early on with the plans and they asked for a meeting with the community, which in SoHo and downtown in general is a very smart idea because we are the Nimby capital of the country,'' he said.
During construction, some neighbors did complain about damage to their properties.
Owners of town houses at Soho Mews can enter via the sleek lobby of the condominium on West Broadway, which looks like a hotel with its walnut concierge desk, and pass through the 4,000-square-foot courtyard on the way to their homes. Or they can use their own private entrances, oversized pivoting glass doors, on Wooster Street.
''I have worked with a lot of famous people and the thing that many of them want is anonymity,'' said Mr. Lilly of the Corcoran Group. ''They can slide into a town house and out of a town house without being recognized by other people in the building.''
Still, many affluent buyers also want the amenities and services that come with being part of a larger development. And they are willing to pay a premium for it, including monthly fees ranging from $3,000 to $7,000 on top of the multimillion dollar purchases.
For owners of the seven town houses lining the far west end of Bethune Street that are a part of Superior Ink, that means access to an entertainment room, a screening room and a gym. Just as at Soho Mews, rear entrances provide an alternative to the traditional front door. There is also valet bike parking.
Building in the West Village presents very different challenges, in part because town houses are an embedded part of the fabric of the neighborhood.
Superior Ink supplanted one of the last factories in the area, which drew attention to the project from the start. The much smaller FLAnk project, on the other hand, replacing only Diane Von Furstenberg's mansion and another town house, did not attract as much notice, which is not to say that everybody likes the prominent copper facade.
Andrew Berman, the executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation, said that the demolition of older buildings to make room for the new developments was a loss for the neighborhood.
''Both projects turned out pretty much as we expected,'' Mr. Berman said.
''The Superior Ink town houses are a kind of historicist stage set, while the FLAnk project is more modern exhibitionism,'' he said. ''I miss the 19th- and early-20th-century factory buildings they replaced; but fortunately, while the city refused to landmark those buildings, we have been able to get much of the rest of the far West Village landmarked, and thus most of the neighborhood's remaining industrial and maritime architecture will be preserved.''
The two neighboring projects approached the modern town house in very different ways.
Mr. Stern, who designed both the town houses and the larger condominium tower of Superior Ink, looked to the past, creating town houses reminiscent of those built 100 years ago. With red-brick facades, stoops rising to the front door, bay windows and curved metal railings, there is little to indicate that they have any connection to the tower.
''The people looking at these homes are not looking for the 'Austin Powers' kind of look,'' said Ms. Rose of Related.
The marketing of the project calls upon an idealized past in a hard-bound prospectus. ''The graceful, expansive floor plans, blend of lavish materials and subtle architectural details,'' it informs prospective buyers, ''display a richness and confidence that evoke the grandeur of earlier West Village eras.''
Mr. Kovner said: ''New money wants something bespoken.''
The interiors of the town houses, which range from 24 to 29 feet wide, are also a throwback, with grand parlors for entertaining and dumbwaiters so that cooks and caterers can prepare food out of view.
But there are also nods to the way people live today: wide-open floor plans, midnight kitchenettes in floor-through master suites and landscaped rooftops.
Four of the seven town houses have sold, including one for more than $10 million to the designer Marc Jacobs. The remaining three are even pricier.
Just a block away on West 12th Street, FLAnk decided to go in a different direction, with asymmetrical walls of copper and glass.
''The building looks hyper-modern, but the spaces inside are much more warm than you might think,'' said Brett Miles, a broker with Brown Harris Stevens who is helping sell units in the building.
The 12-story building is a combination of town houses and condominiums. With construction just being completed, three of the four town houses have already been sold for between $7 and $8 million. The last town house is priced at $7.95 million. Owners have access to a common rooftop garden, including a heated 50-foot lap pool and a whirlpool bath, which will be open year-round.
But technically, because the town houses are part of larger building, they are maisonettes -- which is itself a marketing term coined by developers almost 100 years ago to lure in apartment buyers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SOHO MEWS: PRICE: $4.95 million to $5.675 million ARCHITECT: Gwathmey Siegel & Associates (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SUPERIOR INK: PRICE: $11.6 million to $12.95 million ARCHITECT: Robert A. M. Stern (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
385 WEST 12TH STREET: PRICE: $7.95 million ARCHITECT: FLAnk (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
A CHOICE: At Soho Mews, the town houses have private doors on Wooster Street, above and left. Owners can also enter their homes through the courtyard between their homes and the condominium on West Broadway. Top, far left, an open kitchen in one of the town houses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
POOLED RESOURCES: The view from the kitchen of one of the four town houses at 385 West 12th Street. Owners have the use of the condominium's rooftop lap pool. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE BACK 40: A rear entrance to a town house at Superior Ink. Owners have access to the concierge at the associated condominium on West 12th Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
On the Market: 564 SECOND STREET, BROOKLYN: A five-story Park Slope brownstone built in 1891, listed at $2.75 million. (718) 399-4105
129 WEST 119TH STREET, MANHATTAN: A five-bedroom Harlem town house, listed at $1.95 million. (212) 381-6559
(212) 381-2585
 323 MACDONOUGH STREET, BROOKLYN: A Bed-Stuy house with an owner's duplex and two rentals, listed at $849,000. (212) 906-0531 (RE9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (53%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



137 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD JOINT ROCKAWAYS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Drinks, Breezes, Groaners

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
HARD against the seashore, on Beach 116th Street, there is a funny place to visit on a summer afternoon. It is called the Sand Bar, and it is the only tavern from the Rockaway peninsula to Long Beach that offers drinks with a view of the Atlantic.
Ticky-tacky beer pennants flutter in the salt breeze. Old stones from the ocean paperweight your money. A man walks down the Boardwalk with his pants bunched at his waist. He is lucky. There is a cigarette butt in the gutter. He scampers down, picks it up, sets it on his lip and walks away. 
''It's not the worst place in the world,'' said Ralph Costa, a former beer truck driver and the Sand Bar's resident comedian. ''The trouble is, people here aren't laughing anymore.''
That may be because of Mr. Costa's jokes. He has already told the one about the armless angler and followed that with an obscene riff about the neighborhood in Brooklyn known as Flatbush. When someone buys his drink, he tugs against his collar in the style of Rodney Dangerfield. ''You see the game?'' he said. ''The score is tied -- and so am I.''
Mr. Costa, 59, is an almost man. At age 15, while working as a bellhop in the Catskills, he almost bought a car from Jackie Mason. He drove a bus for almost seven months back and forth on 86th Street in Manhattan. He is amusing, almost. ''Laughter's good for the blood pressure,'' Mr. Costa said, ''and it's less expensive than Viagra. I've been married 35 years -- I ought to know.''
Silent rimshot. The barman moved away.
Three stools down, a loud discussion was taking place about a national teachers' union. The men involved in this discussion -- they were teachers -- were upset about the union's president, who is a lesbian. They made remarks about her companions and habits in the bedroom. They were very drunk and laughed into their drinks.
To Mr. Costa, this was a tonic, and he tipped his glass toward the Sand Bar's open windows, beyond which lay the Boardwalk, the beach, the setting summer sun. ''The laughter -- '' he announced, apparently on the verge of some profundity. But when he stopped to take a sip, he lost the thread.
Later, he explained what he meant to say was that the Sand Bar had been lacking in laughter all summer -- a dearth he blamed on ''the problems of the world,'' which increasingly appear to him to be beyond repair. The television set beside the men's room set these forth in a series of passing segments: Afghanistan, Iraq, mounting unemployment, the country's rising debt.
Now, the news anchor was reporting on the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. A cap was put in place. The leak was at an end.
Mr. Costa wagered one more joke.
''Bet you anything, the stock goes up now,'' he said. ''Want to know why? I don't own it.''
The man beside him smiled.
''You know,'' he said, ''that's the first funny thing I think I've heard you say.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (54%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



138 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: After Bargains Of Recession, Air Fares Soar

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Air fares have marched steadily upward in recent months and are now close to pre-recession levels -- and that's not even counting all the fees that airlines have introduced lately.
The increase in fares is the result of a remarkable discipline shown by the airlines, which have generally not added more flights this year even as the economy has improved and demand has picked up. For the airlines, flying fewer and fuller planes has paid off.
Passengers are paying the price. For leisure travelers, domestic fares have increased by more than 20 percent in the second quarter compared with a year earlier, according to data compiled by the travel Web site Orbitz. On international routes in that period, the climb was even steeper, with fares rising 30 percent. For business travelers, ticket prices increased by 12 percent in the first half of the year.
The price of round-trip coach tickets for a flight between Chicago and Atlanta, for instance, was about $250 this summer, a $50 increase over last year. A round-trip ticket from New York to Paris, which sold for less than $700 last year, cost more than $1,000 this summer. 
Even as the summer ends, experts said they did not expect bargain fares to return anytime soon. While they expect price increases to moderate in coming months when travel traditionally slows, travelers should brace for more increases for the year-end holidays.
''My advice now is don't procrastinate if you're planning to travel over the holidays,'' said Rick Seaney, the chief executive of FareCompare.com, a travel Web site.
The rise in fares can seem especially steep because it follows a low point for the industry. As the economy contracted last year, consumers cut back on spending and air travel collapsed, pushing prices down to their lowest levels in a decade.
Those low fares put immense pressure on the airlines, which had already been struggling with high energy prices.
Airline executives have since been preaching the need to reduce the number of seats they offer, either through cutbacks or consolidation. That thinking led to the merger plans between United Airlines and Continental Airlines. The carriers recently received government approval for the deal, and the merger is expected to be complete on Oct. 1.
''Airlines are continuing to show voluntary capacity discipline for the first time not just this decade, but really since the industry was deregulated in 1978,'' said Hunter Keay, an airline analyst at the firm Stifel Nicolaus.
Of course, the health of the economy remains the wild card in the industry's efforts to improve revenue. If the economy takes a turn for the worse, fewer people will be flying, which, in turn, would push down prices.
In the meantime, airlines have seen some marked improvements in their bottom line.
The average yield -- or the price paid by one passenger to fly one mile -- was 14.95 cents in July, the second-highest price for that month in the past decade, according to data compiled by the Air Transport Association. (The peak for July was 15.56 cents in 2008.)
Passenger revenue rose by 20 percent, marking the seventh straight month of revenue growth, the industry trade group said in its latest monthly report.
Travelers like Damon Myers certainly have noticed the higher prices. ''It's difficult to get a cheap ticket these days,'' said Mr. Myers, a technology consultant from Brooklyn, on his way to pick up a friend at the airport. ''Fares are going up. And on most flights now you'll hear the announcement, 'We've got a packed flight today.' ''
Airlines declined to comment about pricing, citing antitrust concerns. But one executive said that while the airlines have not been able to impose fare increases across the board this year, they have been able to capitalize on the return of business travelers. With more of those higher-paying customers, the airlines were able to reduce the number of cheap seats available, raising their overall revenue per flight.
At the same time, the airlines have also raised an array of fees and other extra charges.
''Everything that you can charge a fee for in the process of flying, there now is a fee for,'' Mr. Seaney said. ''Airlines have been wanting to do this for years.''
The cornucopia of new fees can feel maddeningly complicated. Most airlines now charge for food or drinks, checked bags or flying on standby. Changing tickets costs $50 to $250. JetBlue sells a ''sleep set'' containing a pillow and a blanket for $7; Continental charges $20 to provide a receipt if the request is made more than seven days after a flight.
In the past two months, American Airlines has found a variety of new services worthy of a fee. For $9, passengers can be among the first to board a flight, a perk these days as travelers bring more bags on board than will fit in overhead compartments.
For $25 or $49, passengers can double or triple the number of miles they earn on a flight.
And for fees ranging from $19 to $39, American allows passengers to book seats in one of the first two rows of seats in the coach cabin. These ''express exit'' seats allow passengers to be among the first to board and get out.
''Airlines are getting increasingly creative in charging for items they once provided for free,'' said Jami Counter, the senior director of TripAdvisor Flights, a Web flight search tool. ''For consumers, the result is opaque.''
Matthew Paulsen, an American who lives in Argentina, said he recently balked at having to pay $3.50 for snacks on a flight from Miami to Newark. So for a flight from Buenos Aires to New York, he chose LAN Airlines over American Airlines, though both sold tickets for the flight, because American charges $7 for drinks.
''I want the perks,'' he said. ''I want the blanket. I want the snacks. I want the free drinks, without having to worry about paying for one or two beers.''
But as the fees have multiplied, airlines' fortunes have improved. Four of the top five established airlines turned a profit in the second quarter this year.
In July, Delta Air Lines, the nation's top carrier, reported its biggest quarterly profit in a decade, $467 million for the second quarter. Its revenue from passengers, which includes both higher ticket prices and more revenue from fees, jumped 19 percent. It filled 85 percent of all its seats in that period, a much higher figure than the industry is used to.
''The industry's operational performance has significantly improved,'' said William S. Swelbar, a research engineer at the International Center for Air Transportation at M.I.T.
But Mr. Swelbar said that airlines might be hard pressed to hold on to some of their recent gains if the economy slows down.
''As much as I want to believe that a secular trend of profitability is under way, I am not so sure this is all behind us, given the fragility of this recovery,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Rising Air Fares: The average price that passengers paid to fly each mile in July, excluding taxes, was the second-highest of the last 10 years. This measure, also known as yield, is a strong indicator of airline revenue performance. (Source: Air Transport Association) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (92%); AIRLINES (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MERGERS (85%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AIR SERVICE (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); TICKET SALES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%); OWW (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) GEORGIA, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



139 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THEATER REVIEW LONG ISLAND; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: On an Avenue Far From Sesame Street

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
I smiled all the way through the Gateway Playhouse's sweet, naughty, hilarious, absolutely first-rate production of ''Avenue Q.'' Except when poor Kate Monster was stood up at midnight on the Empire State Building's observation deck. But then the penny that she threw down to the street hit Lucy the Slut in the head, knocking her out, and I was laughing again. (Lucy the Slut totally deserved it.)
For those unfamiliar with ''Avenue Q,'' an introduction is in order. This is a musical about Princeton (played by Howie Michael Smith), a young college graduate having trouble discovering his purpose in life, staying employed and finding a neighborhood he can afford. He lands in a run-down building on iffy Avenue Q, where he meets equally frustrated neighbors. He and most of those neighbors are puppets with nylon fleece faces and big unblinking eyes. 
''Avenue Q'' opened on Broadway in 2003, won the Tony Award for best musical and ran for six years. It is still playing in New York, now in an Off Broadway theater. It includes a nude (and adorable) puppet-sex scene and introduced the world to memorable musical numbers like ''Everyone's a Little Bit Racist'' and ''The Internet Is for Porn.''
These puppets look and sound a lot like ''Sesame Street'' Muppets, but the lessons they're dealing with go way beyond learning to count. Rod (also Mr. Smith) is gay and closeted, even to his straight-but-not-narrow roommate, Nicky (Chris Cooke), with whom he is secretly in love. Kate (Gwen Hollander), a kindergarten assistant, has entrepreneurial dreams that she can't afford to execute. And she's desperate to find a boyfriend. Trekkie Monster (Mr. Cooke), no relation to Kate, spends his days and nights alone, online.
A human character named Christmas Eve (EJ Zimmerman) is a beautiful, overeducated therapist with no clients and a lazy human fiance (Michael Edward Baker). She tried to get a job at a Korean deli, she sings, but they noticed she was Japanese.
The only other human is the building's superintendent, a character based on the former child star Gary Coleman (Carla Hargrove in overalls and a baseball cap), who has fallen on hard times since his days in the sitcom ''Diff'rent Strokes.'' It's a relief that he has remained in place despite the real Mr. Coleman's death at age 42 earlier this year, and that his presence is in no way offensive or maudlin. The role is written with genuine empathy, and audiences are likely to feel for this character even more than before, now that we know how his story ends.
The Bad Idea Bears (Carrie Cimma and Mr. Cooke) are two pastel Snuggle Bear look-alikes who show up at various moments in characters' lives to offer really bad advice. Like ''You should buy some beer'' with the money your parents sent you, or take advantage of your date because ''she's wasted.''
One thing has changed significantly since ''Avenue Q'' made its debut. In 2003, many theatergoers probably felt nothing more than distant sympathy for the 20-somethings and their woes. These days you don't have to be a newcomer to the job market to worry seriously about chronic unemployment and even the prospect of homelessness.
''Avenue Q'' is often surprisingly touching. Keith Andrews, who directed and choreographed beautifully, finds and magnifies the poignancy in Kate's number ''There's a Fine, Fine Line'' (the lyric continues ''between love and a waste of time''). Toward the end of ''I Wish I Could Go Back to College,'' whose lyrics remind us of the joys of having a meal plan, Princeton sings quietly, ''I wish I had taken more pictures.'' Oh, Princeton, so do I!
The whole cast is terrific. If standouts had to be named, they would be Mr. Smith (who played Princeton on Broadway in 2006), Ms. Hollander and Ms. Zimmerman.
In the closing number, ''For Now,'' a biting reference to George W. Bush has been changed to a mention of BP. But puppet-humor lines like ''Her head fell off in the ambulance'' will live forever.
''Avenue Q,'' by Robert Lopez, Jeff Marx and Jeff Whitty, is at the Gateway Playhouse, 215 South Country Road, Bellport, through Sept. 19. Information: (631) 286-1133 or gatewayplayhouse.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NAUGHTY: From left, Carrie Cimma, the puppet Nicky, Chris Cooke, the puppet Rod and Howie Michael Smith at the Gateway Playhouse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF BELLANTE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (90%); THEATER (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (70%); CHRISTMAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



140 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: A Salon With All the Trimmings

BYLINE: By WENDY A. LEE

 BODY:
AT the Pierre Michel salon on East 57th Street in Manhattan, the expensive, laborious and luxurious process of beautification reduced one client to tears.
''I can't see,'' the woman said, her eyelashes newly layered in $500 mink-hair extensions, tears streaming down her cheeks.
''Do you need the fan?'' asked Collette Draut, her aesthetician, as she handed her client a battery-operated gadget to blow away the fumes of the pharmaceutical-grade glue.
Ms. Draut, who works lash-by-lash to affix individual mink hairs to her clients, is one of the salon's 75 beauticians who practice a specialty service. Each has an adoring client base that has fed Pierre Michel's reputation as one of the city's most decadent salons. 
I recently spent a day observing the creative process at the salon's new location, a 9,000-square-foot swath of a skyscraper at Lexington Avenue and 57th Street. (Until November, the salon, which has moved several times, had been around the corner.)
The new place has 61 workstations devoted, for the most part, to the hair, face and hands. Dressed as an assistant, I could observe without obtruding, unless I chose to reveal myself as a reporter.
At the reception desk, clients rarely signed in. Instead, they waved as they proceeded with unslackened step directly to a private dressing room or to a particular workstation. ''They know their way around,'' said Mary Oh, a receptionist.
She helped guide me through an elaborate touch-screen control panel that color-codes and numbers each booking according to whether the client is new, a regular or a ''very regular.''
The rich and famous come and go without undue attention. ''Celebrities do not like to be handled differently,'' said Ruth Hoppe, the desk manager. ''When Uma Thurman comes in and has her color done, she still makes the appointment. Or her assistant makes the appointment. And no one makes a fuss.''
''Same for Christine Quinn,'' she said referring to the New York City Council Speaker.
''And Nina Garcia,'' a receptionist chimed in.
Last year, Pierre Michel made headlines when word spread that it had banned Bernard L. Madoff's wife, Ruth, from its premises. ''Her colorist had to break it to her,'' one stylist said.
On this summer day, the salon was expecting 245 clients (during the high season -- from October to December -- as many as 400 arrive).
Around 11 a.m., a series of extremely well-coiffed women in their 60s and 70s entered, already toting a day's worth of shopping from nearby stores like Henri Bendel and Bergdorf Goodman.
PIERRE OUAKNINE, 70, and his business partner and childhood friend, Michel Obadia, 68, started a salon on East 53rd Street more than 40 years ago after immigrating from Morocco.
Today, Mr. Ouaknine directs the salon's business side while Mr. Obadia, still an active stylist, oversees its creative direction. Both are at work most days, usually surrounded by family members.
Mr. Ouaknine's sister, Danielle Ross, runs the office; Mr. Obadia's wife, Debbie, is in charge of payroll.
Dressed in a black Frank Stella linen suit, Mr. Ouaknine spoke to me in his office, which is equipped with a screen linked to a closed-circuit, multiple-camera surveillance system. He says he uses it to make sure his staff is always busy pampering customers. ''All women are beautiful as long as they are loved,'' Mr. Ouaknine said. ''Here, we love them.''
Love is not free at Pierre Michel. While prices vary by head of hair, a typical invoice might include a $350 keratin treatment (straightener that also strengthens the hair), a $300 color job, $175 for a basic cut and dry, plus 20 percent in tips, not to mention something for the assistants.
''This is expensive, it's time-consuming, it's my idea of a splurge,'' said Emily Vesely, a retired nurse who comes from Long Island every two months to see her stylist, Jerome Lordet.
As Ms. Vesely rifled through magazines and sipped lemon water, Mr. Lordet faced a challenge: a brittle mass of over-permed, nearly burned hair.
Clutching her aubergine Longchamp bag tightly in her lap, the client submitted to Mr. Lordet's silent assessment before being whisked away by his assistant, Ellen Rossi, for an intensive moisturizing shampoo and rinse.
''You see I have a lousy perm from Taipei,'' said the client, who travels from Asia once or twice a year to see Mr. Lordet. After 25 minutes, the client gazed contentedly in the mirror at her mass of voluminous curls.
''They know I get my hair cut in New York,'' she said of her friends back at home.
In a deeper recess of the salon, Mr. Lordet's wife, the colorist A. J. Lordet, applied lightener to a client's mousy gray hair, using a technique called balayage that uses tufts of cotton instead of aluminum foil for what is meant to be a more natural look.
Like several other women in the salon that day, her client, Ann Corless, an insurance executive, was there with family. Her daughter Sophie, 13, had an appointment with Mr. Lordet to repair an unfortunate layering job inflicted by a stylist in New Jersey.
''Jerome is Sophie's treat,'' said Ms. Corless, who has come to Mr. Lordet for more than 25 years. Before joining Pierre Michel, he was a wunderkind stylist at Bruno Dessange, the famous New York salon led by Bruno Pittini, who brought talented stylists like Frederic Fekkai from Paris.
''Remember when I first brought you to Jerome after you cut your own hair with plastic scissors?'' Ms. Corless said.
''He gave me a bob,'' her daughter recalled fondly.
After lunch in the staff room, where employees quickly refueled on light gossip and even lighter salads while watching CNN, it was time to meet Sue Ellen Gifford, the eyebrow guru who boasts of having shaped the brows of Angelina Jolie and Oprah Winfrey.
''It takes three things to look good in New York: eyes, teeth and hair,'' said Ms. Gifford, who studied physics and engineering in Romania. ''The rest doesn't matter or can be covered.''
By midafternoon, clients were lolling on couches, thumb-punching their BlackBerrys while waiting for their color to set or enjoying cappuccinos in the airy cafe, which featured snacks by David Burke as well as Cheez Doodles. By 5 p.m., male customers started arriving at the hair-washing stations, easing themselves into the reclining massage chairs.
The salon is equipped with wireless Internet access so that clients can work during their treatments. Some patrons even hold business meetings at the salon. ''Anna Wintour used to bring her team in at 7 a.m.,'' a stylist said.
But at Pierre Michel, where some clients have seen the same stylists regularly for decades, most pass the time catching up.
''God, whose wedding was that at?'' Irwin Gasner said to Kenneth Tepper, the longtime hairstylist of Mr. Gasner and his family. (Mr. Tepper's years of service to the Gasner family began at the Stephen Knoll salon, where he worked until last year.)
Mr. Tepper, who has styled the hair of Mr. Gasner's daughters from bat mitzvah to wedding, boosted Mr. Gasner's self image 27 years ago, reconciling his client to his ears. ''Remember?'' Mr. Tepper said. ''You had that long, shaggy hair to cover them up.''
More recently, Mr. Tepper vetoed Mr. Gasner's inclination to cover his gray. ''I wouldn't let him,'' Mr. Tepper said. ''As long as you have hair and a nice cut, it could be green and it would still look good.''
As he trimmed his client's eyebrows and buzzed his neckline (nose, ears and brows are part of the $115 cut for men), Mr. Gasner confessed to having briefly gone local. ''As the economy got tough, I thought, 'Let me see if I can get a less expensive haircut,' '' he said. ''I went to the most expensive salon in Rockland County. Of course, I came running back to Kenneth.''
Back in the coat room, Erica Torres, the attendant, mentioned a variety of idiosyncratic preferences that she regularly honors: clients who request ticket No. 1 (''They're like, 'I'm Number One, I'm always Number One' ''), a man who has a special 007 ticket written up for him and a woman who must have a private section of the closet because, ''she doesn't want her clothes to touch anyone else's.''
The quirks of the rich and pampered are nothing new to Ms. Torres, 19, whose mother, Sonia Nau, a Pierre Michel employee of 26 years, is the senior coat check attendant. ''I was practically born here,'' Ms. Torres said. ''I remember taking naps in the back and covering myself up with robes.''
She will enroll in cosmetology school in the fall. ''I want to do color,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE MENU: At left, inside the Pierre Michel salon, where a shampoo, manicure and eyebrow adjustment are a few of the offerings.
DOWN TIME: A client during a delicate eyelash extension, which requires lots of patience, at Pierre Michel, which has a reputation as one of the city's most decadent salons.
 STYLE COUNCIL: Jerome Lordet, left, a stylist. The balayage process, center. Kenneth Tepper, right, another stylist at the salon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELOCATIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); CITIES (68%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



141 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Non-Economic Factors Handicap the Economy

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
Jonathan Weber is the editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Jonathan Weber writes a column for The Bay Citizen.
San Francisco's chief economist, Ted Egan, gave a pretty downbeat assessment of the region's economic outlook last week at a San Francisco Chamber of Commerce conference, citing the lack of employment growth and the anemic housing market as the major problems. That comes as no surprise.
But the contradictions of this recession were underscored when Mr. Egan noted that venture capital investment soared in the second quarter, and that industries like digital media, biotechnology and green energy are healthy and growing. 
So how could it be that the businesses that are generally seen as the key drivers of the local economy are doing well, but they haven't made a dent in unemployment, personal income, consumer spending and other measures of economic health?
In part it's because these industries are still small, despite their high glamour quotient, Mr. Egan said in an interview. But the key lies in the moribund housing market, and that in turn raises a lot of questions about our region's attitude toward population growth, quality of life and immigration.
In California more than anywhere else, real estate has always been the economy's secret sauce. Real estate speculation -- on the grand scale embodied in the great Los Angeles water grab that turned barren Southern California scrublands into prosperous farms and subdivisions, and on the small scale in which the modest Marin County house that Dad bought for $50,000 in 1960 is now worth a couple of million -- is a big factor in our historic prosperity.
In simple terms, California real estate has been such a good investment for such a long time because lots of people have been moving here, and they need to live somewhere. Most of the places that have had intensive real estate appreciation in recent decades -- many parts of California as well as Phoenix, Las Vegas and Florida -- are places with substantial in-migration. In many cases the speculation eventually got ahead of the population, but it was the belief in continued population growth that inflated the bubble.
People move to California for jobs, and certainly the postwar growth of the aerospace, technology and entertainment industries played a huge role in drawing people here. (And income growth from those businesses also drove real estate prices higher.)
But people move here for a lot of other reasons: the weather, new opportunities, political freedom, the raw energy of our great cities. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger mentioned in his talk at the same conference last week that he moved to California from Austria when he was 21 because he saw California as the land of opportunity.
A lot of Californians feel that the state is full-up, so to speak, and don't see the benefits of more population growth. Anti-immigrant sentiment, whether it's aimed at illegal border-crossers or professionals holding H1-B work visas or foreign students who would like to stay on after their visas expire, is partly a reflection of this feeling.
But new residents need all kinds of things, especially housing, and that supports prices. An International Monetary Fund study of global housing markets shows that every 0.25 percent increase in population growth leads to a 1 percent increase in housing prices.
Housing demand will increase even without immigration, as aging baby boomers and echo boomers create more ''empty nest'' households. Moreover, in some of the most attractive Bay Area communities, like San Francisco, the limited supply of housing will keep prices firm or rising (and real estate markets in these communities have indeed suffered much less than in other places).
But in much of the Bay Area, and especially on the fringes, there is plenty of supply, and thus increased demand is critical to a housing recovery.
Yet with immigration to the United States declining -- due to the weak economy, the crackdown on illegal immigration and post-Sept. 11 restrictions on who can enter the country -- and the decay of public services in California making the state less attractive relative to other parts of the country, it's not clear where that demand will come from.
Rising real estate prices have their downside, not least that they make it more expensive to do business. But as Mr. Egan said, toxic real estate loans are draining credit from the economy and dampening consumer confidence to such a degree that a housing recovery is critical to any broader economic recovery.
Whatever else you might think about immigration, or about the importance of spending money on quality-of-life infrastructure and services, they are ultimately the key to our economic health.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); IMMIGRATION (87%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



142 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: After a Life in Labor, a Union Leader Retires, Frustrated by the Movement's Troubles

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After 38 years as a gung ho trade unionist, Anna Burger is retiring -- with unmistakable frustration -- from her post as the highest-ranking woman in American labor movement history.
Ms. Burger, 59, is frustrated because she has dedicated her adult life to building the labor movement, but it has nonetheless grown smaller and weaker. Beyond stepping down as chairwoman of Change to Win, a federation representing 5 million union members, she is also retiring from her job of 14 years as secretary-treasurer of the powerful Service Employees International Union, representing nearly 2 million janitors, hospital employees and others workers.
Ms. Burger said many women still had far too hard a time balancing job and family. She is also frustrated that union membership continues to shrink even when workers should in theory be flocking into unions during this time of stagnating wages. And the labor-friendly Democratic majorities that unions fought so hard to elect in the House and the Senate could disappear in this November's elections. 
''The labor movement gave me a chance for a better life,'' said Ms. Burger, the daughter of a Teamsters truck driver. ''I worry whether the labor movement will continue to be able do that for a lot of people.''
Within labor, many critics say that Ms. Burger, like Andy Stern, the former service employees' president, was a divisive figure. She, like Mr. Stern, is often faulted for fomenting the schism in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. five years ago and for often bragging that the S.E.I.U. is the fastest-growing union with the biggest political war chest.
Ms. Burger, who first joined a union as a social worker in Pennsylvania, boasted, for instance, that were it not for the service employees' multiyear push, the health care overhaul would never have been enacted.
''We're the most successful union out there,'' she said. ''There are times people resent us for that.''
Ms. Burger had campaigned to succeed Mr. Stern after he announced his retirement in April. Viewing Ms. Burger as too top-down, many S.E.I.U. officials rallied behind a union executive vice president and the eventual winner, Mary Kay Henry. Ms. Burger quit the race, but stayed on as No. 2, although it seemed only a matter of time before she stepped down.
Ms. Burger was hazy about her future. She dropped hints that she hoped to land a job that brought unions together with other groups to build a progressive political majority -- a vision that clashes with the nation's recent rightward shift.
''For me,'' she said, ''there's an urgency to try to make sure we take advantage of having the best president we've had in my lifetime to make this country and make the world work best for everyone.''
Randel K. Johnson, senior vice president for labor policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce, said that Ms. Burger was not going to get her progressive majority, and that it was partly labor's fault.
''They certainly were successful in electing a more pro-union House and Senate,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''But their advocacy of the unpopular health care bill will mean losses this November for many House and Senate members who have traditionally supported unions.''
Ms. Burger has been an outspoken member of the president's Economic Recovery Advisory Board. She has urged President Obama to appoint a jobs czar ''who would focus on jobs, jobs, jobs'' and to adopt an industrial policy to rebuild America's sagging manufacturing base. She supports establishing a federal infrastructure bank that would spend hugely over the next decade to build roads, bridges and mass transit, creating millions of jobs.
Ms. Burger offered an explanation of why American workers were not rushing to embrace unions despite the tough economic times.
''They'll flock to unions when they don't feel so intimidated about supporting a union,'' she said. ''There's still a total assault by corporations to stop workers from having unions.''
Many union officials remain bitter that Ms. Burger helped lead the 2005 split in the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which many say embarrassed and weakened labor.
Ms. Burger is unrepentant. ''I don't have any second thoughts,'' she said, asserting that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. had lacked energy and vision.
She said that forming the breakaway federation fueled more union organizing by the Teamsters, for instance, among port truck drivers in Los Angeles. She also said that without the creation of Change to Win, Mr. Obama would never have won the presidency. She said that federation's endorsement of Mr. Obama in April 2008 was pivotal to his defeating Hillary Rodham Clinton in several crucial primaries.
Change to Win has fallen far short of its proclaimed goal of organizing 750,000 workers annually. ''There hasn't been the big increase in union membership that they had called for,'' said Peter Dreier, a labor expert at Occidental College.
Ms. Burger has often championed women's causes. She noted that while women were half the work force, they did far more than half the work because they not only work on the job, but do most of the cooking, cleaning and child-rearing at home.
''We have not developed public policies that support working women the way we should,'' she said. ''When women can be forced to work mandatory overtime when they have children at home and don't have access to child care, that's a huge problem.
''We're still lacking a lot of support mechanisms for women,'' she added. ''We're the only industrial nation that doesn't have paid maternity leave. Many businesses haven't stepped up, so the government needs to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anna Burger at an economic meeting during President Obama's campaign. Ms. Burger is retiring as chairwoman of Change to Win and secretary-treasurer of the service employees' union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (94%); RANKINGS (89%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (77%); WOMEN (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); HOSPITALS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHANGE TO WIN (83%); SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); ROBERT W BEST (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



143 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Despite Talk, Potential Rivals for Daley Stand Back

BYLINE: By DAN MIHALOPOULOS and MICK DUMKE

 BODY:
Many Chicago political axioms have come under assault from reformers and federal prosecutors in recent years, including ''Where's mine?'' and ''We don't want nobody nobody sent.'' But ''You can't beat somebody with nobody'' remains as true as ever with the 2011 mayoral election less than six months away.
Despite polls showing that he is less popular now than at any other point in his 21-year tenure, Mayor Richard M. Daley seems poised to glide into his seventh term over what appears to be weak opposition.
In a city where one Richard Daley or the other has been mayor for 42 of the last 55 years, it is much easier to criticize the boss than to find a candidate who can raise the campaign money, build the citywide stature needed, and clearly articulate an alternative plan to lead Chicago. The few who might be most capable are unwilling to cross Mayor Daley and prefer to wait until the 67-year-old mayor steps down voluntarily. 
Several potentially strong candidates did not deny that they would love to have the job -- but only if Mr. Daley bows out, something he appears unlikely to do now, if ever. In that category are Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff and former mayoral campaign aide, as well as Tom Dart, the Cook County sheriff.
A handful of local elected officials, including Alderman Scott Waguespack (32nd Ward), Alderman Robert Fioretti (2nd Ward) and State Representative John Fritchey have ramped up their criticisms of Mr. Daley. None have committed to challenging the mayor in the February election, but if they do, even some mayoral critics doubt that they could mount an effective insurgent campaign.
Pondering their options most loudly are Mr. Fioretti and Mr. Waguespack, two freshmen City Council members. At this point, though, both are circulating nominating petitions to run for re-election as aldermen, not for mayor. Each would begin a mayoral campaign with a fraction of the nearly $1.5 million that Mr. Daley has in his political war chest, state records show.
''It's almost like Daley wins by default,'' said Don Rose, a veteran Democratic consultant. ''He is more vulnerable than four years ago. I just don't see a formidable figure who is willing to challenge him.''
Mr. Rose played central roles in two of the biggest political surprises in the city's history: Jane Byrne's election as mayor in 1979, and the 1983 victory of Harold Washington, the first black mayor of Chicago. But this time, Mr. Rose said, he does not see the makings of a close race, much less an upset.
''It's going to take something more than a Fioretti or a Waguespack,'' he said.
As has been his custom, Mr. Daley has not yet announced whether he will run for re-election. But William Daley, the mayor's brother and longtime political adviser, told the Chicago News Cooperative last week that he expected him to seek a seventh term. William Daley said he was skeptical that potential challengers who have recently emerged would end up on the ballot next year.
''We've seen this movie six times,'' he said.
Other mayoral supporters echoed William Daley's expectation that his brother was not ready to step down from the office he has held without serious challenge since 1989.
''He seems totally engaged in it -- not that he enjoys every minute,'' said John Schmidt, the mayor's first chief of staff. ''The economy has made his job much more difficult.''
The mayor's notoriously prickly skin is pulled thinner than ever as the city's budget deficit grows to record levels. The dire economic times have emboldened some elected officials to increasingly distance themselves from the mayor.
''He doesn't have a vision for the city,'' Mr. Waguespack said in an interview last week.
The alderman has sought to capitalize on his vote against the unpopular privatization of the city parking meter system. He was one of only five council members to oppose the $1.15 billion deal in December 2008.
Mr. Fioretti sharply criticized the mayor at a recent fund-raiser, blaming him for the decline in the number of police officers and for the city's budget crunch.
''We're facing a $654.7 million deficit because of mismanagement,'' he said. ''I will tell you, mismanagement not of one year, two years or this economic crisis, but of 20 years.''
Last month, the mayor made a surprise announcement that he would dedicate a park in Mr. Fioretti's ward, two days before a similar event the alderman had planned.
''He must be very frightened of something,'' Mr. Fioretti said, accusing the mayor of purposely upstaging him. ''That or he's just being the child that he is.''
Greg Goldner, who ran the mayor's landslide re-election in 2003, said that many residents are discontented with the way things are, but that they would have to be convinced that a mayoral hopeful offered an alternative vision for leading Chicago.
''These self-proclaimed challengers need to be more sophisticated in their criticisms if they want to connect with voters,'' Mr. Goldner said.
Mr. Daley's lopsided re-election victories have usually been against black challengers like Dorothy Brown, the clerk of the Cook County Circuit Court, who ran in 2007. No major black or Hispanic leaders have suggested that they would run this time, with Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. remaining quiet since his name surfaced in the corruption case of former Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich.
Alderman Howard Brookins (21st Ward) said black business leaders would not want to contribute to a rival for fear of reprisal by the mayor. Before supporting someone else, Mr. Brookins said, ''they're going to wait until it's the bottom of the ninth to see if he's still in the game before they'd be willing to back him.''
The mayoral aspirants who have already announced that they plan to run are William Walls III, a perennial candidate, and Jay Stone, who said he worked as a clinical hypnotherapist. Mr. Walls finished last in the three-way race for mayor in 2007, with 9 percent of the vote, and Mr. Stone lost a 2003 bid for a council seat.
Candidates have until Nov. 22 to file nominating petitions for the Feb. 22 nonpartisan primary. If nobody wins a majority, the top two vote-getters would have a runoff election in April.
The mayor said last week that it was too early to make political plans and declined to comment specifically on potential challengers. He is only slightly more willing to address policy criticisms from would-be opponents.
Without naming names, he responded heatedly last month to proposals from Mr. Fritchey, who questioned the administration's use of tax increment financing, a development tool relying on tax dollars that would otherwise go to schools.
Mr. Daley held three news conferences across the city in the span of a few days to point out that he had used tax increment financing to complete such projects as a new playground at a North Side park. And the visibly irritated mayor told reporters he would not heed fiscal advice from state and federal lawmakers -- or from the city's economically struggling news media.
Mr. Fritchey suggested that the mayor's reactions reflected an inflexible management style. ''Not every proposed idea has to be seen as a challenge to his authority, but that has been the case,'' he said.
Mr. Fritchey said he thought Chicagoans were more interested in having ''a viable option for mayor'' than they had been in decades. Although he said some had approached him about being that alternative to Mr. Daley, Mr. Fritchey quickly added that he was merely thinking about running and would only do so ''if I felt there was a broad core of support out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Richard M. Daley, top, has low poll numbers, but so far he has no strong challenger for re-election in 2011. Increasingly vocal critics include Alderman Scott Waguespack, in cap
Alderman Robert Fioretti
 and State Representative John Fritchey. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) CHART: The Money Race: Mayor Richard M. Daley would start the Feb. 22 election campaign with a huge advantage in political cash over potential challengers. (Source: Illinois State Board of Elections) (A25B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PETITIONS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); HISTORY (65%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



144 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Stand and Deliver

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is an economics columnist for The Times and a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
The start of the school year brings another one of those nagging, often unquenchable worries of parenthood: How good will my child's teachers be? Teachers tend to have word-of-mouth reputations, of course. But it is hard to know how well those reputations match up with a teacher's actual abilities. Schools generally do not allow parents to see any part of a teacher's past evaluations, for instance. And there is nothing resembling a rigorous, Consumer Reports-like analysis of schools, let alone of individual teachers. For the most part, parents just have to hope for the best. 
That, however, may be starting to change. A few months ago, a team of reporters at The Los Angeles Times and an education economist set out to create precisely such a consumer guide to education in Los Angeles. The reporters requested and received seven years of students' English and math elementary-school test scores from the school district. The economist then used a statistical technique called value-added analysis to see how much progress students had made, from one year to the next, under different third- through fifth-grade teachers. The variation was striking. Under some of the roughly 6,000 teachers, students made great strides year after year. Under others, often at the same school, students did not. The newspaper named a few teachers -- both stars and laggards -- and announced that it would release the approximate rankings for all teachers, along with their names.
The articles have caused an electric reaction. The president of the Los Angeles teachers union called for a boycott of the newspaper. But the union has also suggested it is willing to discuss whether such scores can become part of teachers' official evaluations. Meanwhile, more than 1,700 teachers have privately reviewed their scores online, and hundreds have left comments that will accompany them.
It is not difficult to see how such attempts at measurement and accountability may be a part of the future of education. Presumably, other groups will try to repeat the exercise elsewhere. And several states, in their efforts to secure financing from the Obama administration's Race to the Top program, have committed to using value-added analysis in teacher evaluation. The Washington, D.C., schools chancellor, Michelle Rhee, fired more than 100 teachers this summer based on evaluations from principals and other educators and, when available, value-added scores.
In many respects, this movement is overdue. Given the stakes, why should districts be allowed to pretend that nearly all their teachers are similarly successful? (The same question, by the way, applies to hospitals and doctors.) The argument for measurement is not just about firing the least effective sliver of teachers. It is also about helping decent and good teachers to become better. As Arne Duncan, the secretary of education, has pointed out, the Los Angeles school district has had the test-score data for years but didn't use it to help teachers improve. When the Times reporters asked one teacher about his weak scores, he replied, ''Obviously what I need to do is to look at what I'm doing and take some steps to make sure something changes.''
Yet for the all of the potential benefits of this new accountability, the full story is still not a simple one. You could tell as much by the ambivalent reaction to the Los Angeles imbroglio from education researchers and reform advocates. These are the people who have spent years urging schools to do better. Even so, many reformers were torn about the release of the data. Above all, they worried that although the data didn't paint a complete picture, it would offer the promise of clear and open accountability -- because teachers could be sorted and ranked -- and would nonetheless become gospel.
Value-added data is not gospel. Among the limitations, scores can bounce around from year to year for any one teacher, notes Ross Wiener of the Aspen Institute, who is generally a fan of the value-added approach. So a single year of scores -- which some states may use for evaluation -- can be misleading. In addition, students are not randomly assigned to teachers; indeed, principals may deliberately assign slow learners to certain teachers, unfairly lowering their scores. As for the tests themselves, most do not even try to measure the social skills that are crucial to early learning.
The value-added data probably can identify the best and worst teachers, researchers say, but it may not be very reliable at distinguishing among teachers in the middle of the pack. Joel Klein, New York's reformist superintendent, told me that he considered the Los Angeles data powerful stuff. He also said, ''I wouldn't try to make big distinctions between the 47th and 55th percentiles.'' Yet what parent would not be tempted to?
One way to think about the Los Angeles case is as an understandable overreaction to an unacceptable status quo. For years, school administrators and union leaders have defeated almost any attempt at teacher measurement, partly by pointing to the limitations. Lately, though, the politics of education have changed. Parents know how much teachers matter and know that, just as with musicians or athletes or carpenters or money managers, some teachers are a lot better than others.
Test scores -- that is, measuring students' knowledge and skills -- are surely part of the solution, even if the public ranking of teachers is not. Rob Manwaring of the research group Education Sector has suggested that districts release a breakdown of teachers' value-added scores at every school, without tying the individual scores to teachers' names. This would avoid humiliating teachers while still giving a principal an incentive to employ good ones. Improving standardized tests and making peer reports part of teacher evaluation, as many states are planning, would help, too.
But there is also another, less technocratic step that is part of building better schools: we will have to acknowledge that no system is perfect. If principals and teachers are allowed to grade themselves, as they long have been, our schools are guaranteed to betray many students. If schools instead try to measure the work of teachers, some will inevitably be misjudged. ''On whose behalf do you want to make the mistake -- the kids or the teachers?'' asks Kati Haycock, president of the Education Trust. ''We've always erred on behalf of the adults before.''
You may want to keep that in mind if you ever get a chance to look at a list of teachers and their value-added scores. Some teachers, no doubt, are being done a disservice. Then again, so were a whole lot of students.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK STEINMETZ) DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOMOCO)
 GRAPHIC: 75% of public-school parents say teachers' SALARIES should be tied to students' ACHIEVEMENT. (GRAPHIC BY THE GEORGE GUND FOUNDATION. SOURCE (TOP LEFT) : PHI DELTA KAPPA/GALLUP POLL, JUNE 2010.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); STATISTICAL METHOD (52%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%)

ORGANIZATION: PHI DELTA KAPPA INTERNATIONAL (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); ARNE DUNCAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



145 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Endless War

BYLINE: By GARY J. BASS. 
Gary J. Bass, a professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton, is the author of ''Freedom's Battle'' and ''Stay the Hand of Vengeance.''

 BODY:
WASHINGTON RULES
America's Path to Permanent War
By Andrew J. Bacevich
286 pp. Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $25
In 1947, Hanson W. Baldwin, the hawkish military correspondent of this newspaper, warned that the demands of preparing America for a possible war would ''wrench and distort and twist the body politic and the body economic . . . prior to war.'' He wondered whether America could confront the Soviet Union ''without becoming a 'garrison state' and destroying the very qualities and virtues and principles we originally set about to save.''
It is that same dread of a martial America that drives Andrew J. Bacevich today. Bacevich forcefully denounces the militarization that he says has already become a routine, unremarked-upon part of our daily lives -- and will only get worse as America fights on in Afghanistan and beyond. He rips into what he calls a postwar American dogma ''so deeply embedded in the American collective consciousness as to have all but disappeared from view.'' ''Washington Rules'' is a tough-minded, bracing and intelligent polemic against some 60 years of American militarism. 
This outrage at a warlike America has special bite coming from Bacevich. No critic of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan could have brighter conservative credentials. He is a blunt-talking Midwesterner, a West Point graduate who served for 23 years in the United States Army, a Vietnam veteran who retired as a colonel, and a sometime contributor to National Review. ''By temperament and upbringing, I had always taken comfort in orthodoxy,'' he writes. But George W. Bush's decision to invade Iraq in 2003, Bacevich says, ''pushed me fully into opposition. Claims that once seemed elementary -- above all, claims relating to the essentially benign purposes of American power -- now appeared preposterous.''
From Harry S. Truman's presidency to today, Bacevich argues, Americans have trumpeted the credo that they alone must ''lead, save, liberate and ultimately transform the world.'' That crusading mission is implemented by what Bacevich caustically calls ''the sacred trinity'': ''U.S. military power, the Pentagon's global footprint and an American penchant for intervention.'' This threatening posture might have made some sense in 1945, he says, but it is catastrophic today. It relegates America to ''a condition of permanent national security crisis.''
Bacevich has two main targets in his sights. The first are the commissars of the national security establishment, who perpetuate these ''Washington rules'' of global dominance. By Washington, he means not just the federal government, but also a host of satraps who gain power, cash or prestige from this perpetual state of emergency: defense contractors, corporations, big banks, interest groups, think tanks, universities, television networks and The New York Times. He complains that an unthinking Washington consensus on global belligerence is just as strong among mainstream Democrats as among mainstream Republicans. Those who step outside this monolithic view, like Dennis Kucinich or Ron Paul, are quickly dismissed as crackpots, Bacevich says. This leaves no serious checks or balances against the overweening national security state.
Bacevich's second target is the sleepwalking American public. He says that they notice foreign policy only in the depths of a disaster that, like Vietnam or Iraq, is too colossal to ignore. As he puts it, ''The citizens of the United States have essentially forfeited any capacity to ask first-order questions about the fundamentals of national security policy.''
Bacevich is singularly withering on American public willingness to ignore those who do their fighting for them. He warns of ''the evisceration of civic culture that results when a small praetorian guard shoulders the burden of waging perpetual war, while the great majority of citizens purport to revere its members, even as they ignore or profit from their service.'' Here he has a particular right to be heard: on May 13, 2007, his son Andrew J. Bacevich Jr., an Army first lieutenant, was killed on combat patrol in Iraq. Bacevich does not discuss his tragic loss here, but wrote devastatingly about it at the time in The Washington Post: ''Memorial Day orators will say that a G.I.'s life is priceless. Don't believe it. I know what value the U.S. government assigns to a soldier's life: I've been handed the check.''
Bacevich is less interested in foreign policy here (he offers only cursory remarks about the objectives and capabilities of countries like China, Russia, North Korea and Iran) than in the way he thinks militarism has corrupted America. In his acid account of the inexorable growth of the national security state, he emphasizes not presidents, who come and go, but the architects of the system that envelops them: Allen W. Dulles, who built up the C.I.A., and Curtis E. LeMay, who did the same for the Strategic Air Command. Both of them, Bacevich says, would get memorials on the Mall in Washington if we were honest about how the capital really works.
The mandarins thrived under John F. Kennedy, whose administration ''was fixating on Fidel Castro with the same feverish intensity as the Bush administration exactly 40 years later was to fixate on Saddam Hussein -- and with as little strategic logic.'' The Washington consensualists were thrown badly off balance by defeat in Vietnam but, Bacevich says, soon regained their stride under Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton -- setting the stage for George W. Bush. Barack Obama campaigned on change and getting out of Iraq, but when it comes to the war in Afghanistan or military budgets, he is, Bacevich insists, just another cat's-paw for the Washington establishment: ''Obama would not challenge the tradition that Curtis LeMay and Allen Dulles had done so much to erect.''
Bacevich sometimes overdoes the high dudgeon. He writes, ''The folly and hubris of the policy makers who heedlessly thrust the nation into an ill-defined and open-ended 'global war on terror' without the foggiest notion of what victory would look like, how it would be won and what it might cost approached standards hitherto achieved only by slightly mad German warlords.'' Which slightly mad German warlords exactly? Bacevich, an erudite historian, could mean some princelings or perhaps Kaiser Wilhelm II, but the standard reading will be Hitler.
And he underplays some of the ways in which Americans have resisted militarism. The all-volunteer force, for all its deep inequities, is a testament to American horror at conscription. He never mentions Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the great New York senator who fought government secrecy and quixotically tried to abolish the C.I.A. after the end of the cold war. Although Bacevich admires Dwight D. Eisenhower for his farewell address warning against the forces of the ''military-industrial complex,'' he slams Eisenhower for enabling those same forces as president. Yet the political scientist Aaron L. Friedberg and other scholars credit Eisenhower for resisting demands for huge boosts in defense spending.
Bacevich, in his own populist way, sees himself as updating a tradition -- from George Washington and John Quincy Adams to J. William Fulbright and Martin Luther King Jr. -- that calls on America to exemplify freedom but not actively to spread it. It isn't every American's tradition (and it offers pretty cold comfort to Poles, Rwandans and Congolese), but it's one that's necessary to keep the country from going off the rails. As foreign policy debates in the run-up to the November elections degenerate into Muslim-bashing bombast, the country is lucky to have a fierce, smart peacemonger like Bacevich.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Air Force B-52 Stratofortress over South Vietnam in 1965
Gen. Curtis LeMay in 1963
and Allen Dulles in the 1950s. (PHOTOGRAPHS, FROM LEFT: U.S. AIR FORCE VIA GETTY IMAGES
KEYSTONE/GETTY IMAGES
 AND AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARMIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); VIET NAM (54%)

TITLE: Washington Rules: Americas Path to Permanent War (Book)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



146 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Many High-Paid Public Workers Live Elsewhere

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LESLY STEVENS. 
estevens@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Morris Tabak, assistant chief of the San Francisco Police Department, is one of the highest-paid employees San Francisco has ever had.
Mr. Tabak earned $425,558 in 2009, according to city payroll records. After 32 years on the force, he announced his retirement this month. His annual payment from the city's pension fund will be approximately $225,000. With that and San Francisco's generous retiree health care package, compensation to Mr. Tabak will quickly climb into the seven figures.
But there is a hidden cost to the city beyond Mr. Tabak's generous salary and pension benefits: Mr. Tabak owns a home, pays property taxes and, presumably, does most of his shopping in a residential community in San Mateo County, about 20 miles south of the city.
The net effect is that most of the economic activity generated by Mr. Tabak's salary and benefits will take place outside San Francisco. 
Mr. Tabak, who declined to be interviewed, is hardly alone. An analysis by The Bay Citizen of San Francisco's payroll and employee-residency data shows that the city's highest-paid employees tend to live outside the city limits, while the lowest-paid ones, on average, make their homes in San Francisco. According to the data, 56 percent of public employees -- and three-quarters of the police officers -- reside outside the city.
The data appear to contradict the common belief -- asserted most recently by Mayor Gavin Newsom during a visit to The Bay Citizen newsroom -- that few public employees can afford to live in notoriously expensive San Francisco.
By law, San Francisco's public employees (though not the city's elected officials) are free to live wherever they want. A section of the state's Constitution bars local governments from requiring residency for public employees, though they can be required to live within a ''reasonable distance.''
But the flight of so much capital -- San Francisco will spend $2.6 billion this year on salaries, benefits and pension-fund contributions -- adds another dimension to the city's efforts to grapple with one of the worst budget crises in its history.
It has long been known that San Francisco's public employees are well-paid, averaging $87,000 a year. But the data indicate that most of that income leaves the city with the evening commute. According to calculations, the net outflow this year will be $1.8 billion. Workers may buy lunch and lattes, or an occasional dinner or drinks, near the Civic Center, but the bulk of their income is spent near their homes.
''The main advantage of having employees reside within the city is that a good chunk of their personal and family spending would be localized,'' said Sean Randolph, president of the nonpartisan Bay Area Council Economic Institute, a business-oriented public-policy group. A disadvantage to their living outside, Mr. Randolph said, is that those employees end up paying taxes to other communities.
The $1.8 billion outflow is certainly not the cause of the city's budget shortfall, but it does not help. The cost of supporting these public employees is largely borne by San Francisco's 700,000 adult residents. The $2.6 billion in employee costs does not include the city's pension fund disbursements: $742 million to more than 23,000 beneficiaries in 2009. Nearly $500 million of that was sent to pensioners living in other cities.
Then there is another $4 billion in unfunded retiree health-care liabilities, which is ''an immense number,'' said Eric Hoffmann, a San Francisco-based senior vice president with Moody's Investor Service. ''San Francisco is very generous in its post-retirement benefits.''
Moody's has a ''negative outlook'' on the city's creditworthiness. If that rating is downgraded, San Francisco will pay higher interest on its debt payments, which are about $300 million this year.
The issue is not unique to San Francisco. Other municipal governments have tried over the years to devise ways to capture income from workers who do not live in the cities that employ them. These measures have taken the form of residency requirements, commuter taxes and higher payroll taxes. But these terms are not presently part of the political or economic vocabulary of the Bay Area.
''We are not hostile to people who do not live in the city,'' says Tony Winnicker, spokesman for San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom. ''Non-residents--including city workers--contribute billions to our city on an annual basis.''
That doesn't mean that the city doesn't see potential benefits in requiring other, private-sector employers to hire local. The mayor's office has been working with Supervisor John Avalos, who is preparing legislation to require private contractors and developers working on city-financed construction projects in San Francisco to employ crews made up at least half by city residents.
''We are trying to make sure we are keeping money in San Francisco,'' Mr. Avalos said. ''When those jobs go to San Franciscans, we know the money stays in the local economy. There is a multiplier effect.''
Employees of the city and county of San Francisco earned more than the county average in all nine Bay Area counties in which they reside, the data show. In San Francisco, where the average 2008 income was $72,712, roughly 10,000 municipal employees residing within the city made an average of $83,000.
The average San Francisco city employee residing in Sonoma County made $118,000. That is about two-and-a-half times the county average per-capita income, according to 2008 United States Commerce Department data.
In Solano County, the 914 San Francisco city employees made an average of $87,000 -- more than twice the county average. The nearly 5,300 San Francisco employees residing in San Mateo County earned $89,000 -- 21 percent more than the county average.
As San Francisco's budget woes mount, the city is embroiled in a fight over whether to force existing public employees, most of whom live outside the city, to make greater contributions to pay for their pensions and other benefits. (New hires already face higher contributions, thanks to a health care measure that was passed in 2008 and a pension measure passed in June 2010.)
Proposition B, the November ballot measure, would require greatly increased contributions. Its lead proponent, Jeff Adachi, the public defender, said it would save San Francisco $120 million to $170 million a year. Public-employee unions and most political leaders vehemently oppose Proposition B. No matter where they call home, city employees are upset about the toll the measure would have on their finances.
Lorraine Thiebaud, a 63-year-old trauma nurse for more than two decades at San Francisco General, personifies the complexity of the issue. She earned $128,000 last year -- but she is the sole breadwinner for a family of four, and the high cost of living in the Bay Area drove her and her family far afield.
Raised in the Inner Sunset district, Ms. Thiebaud said she could not afford to live in San Francisco in the early 1980s, so she and her husband, a general contractor, settled in Berkeley. When the economy soured, Ms. Thiebaud's husband was out of work, and they moved even farther from San Francisco to save money.
Ms. Thiebaud now commutes via Amtrak from Placer County, northeast of Sacramento, to work double night shifts at San Francisco General, while her husband stays home to look after their two school-aged daughters. Ms. Thiebaud estimates that if Proposition B passes in November, she will face $12,000 to $15,000 in increased pension and health-care contributions.
Ms. Thiebaud is working with her union to defeat Proposition B. But, in a phenomenon related to the fact that most city workers live outside San Francisco, the city's public employees are a tiny voting bloc in San Francisco, at most 2 percent of registered voters.
So while Ms. Thiebaud's fate is tied to the political wrangling of San Francisco, she will not vote against Proposition B. She is registered in Placer County, 125 miles away.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Public employees in San Francisco are well-compensated, in retirement as well as on the job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) CHART: Where San Francisco City Employees Live: Some of the highest-paid city employees live the farthest from City Hall. (Sources: San Francisco Department of Human Resources, City Controller's Office)
 MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); FAMILY (71%); PROPERTY TAX (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



147 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours: Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
LIKE the high-tech companies that give this lush region its name, Silicon Valley thrives on reinvention. Situated just south of San Francisco Bay, the valley was once an agricultural cradle, home to orchards and vineyards. These days, of course, it bears fruit of a different sort, as the home of tech giants like Apple, Google and Intel. Buoyed by the resilience of tech companies, the valley's dozen or so cities, which include Mountain View and Palo Alto, have managed to sidestep the recession, continuing their shift from corporate strip malls to urban hubs. The valley now buzzes with cultural spaces, lively restaurants and a hyper-educated workforce that has no problem keeping up.
Friday
4 p.m. 1)BETTING ON BOUTIQUES 
San Jose may still call itself ''the capital'' of Silicon Valley, but the picturesque town of Los Gatos is emerging as its trendier ''downtown,'' with its historic cottages and upscale boutiques. Fashionable shoppers flock to Salt (78 West Main Street; 408-395-0800; shop-salt.com), a women's boutique that carries California labels like Vince and Black Halo, and Infiniti Boutique (120 West Main Street; 408-399-7071) for its mix of European clothes and accessories. The people cruising the streets in Los Gatos give off a vibe that matches the bright, charming town, which is full of surprises off the main drag.
6 p.m. 2) BARSTOOL PITCH
Sand Hill Road is one the valley's main arteries, cutting through Palo Alto, Menlo Park and Stanford University. As the weekend gets under way, follow the stream of Prius hybrids, Mercedes coupes and the occasional Tesla electric car to Madera, a new restaurant and bar at the Rosewood Sand Hill hotel (2825 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park; 650-561-1500; rosewoodsandhill.com). The indoor-outdoor bar is a hot spot for venture capitalists to unwind and gossip, as they survey their domain on a terrace that looks out on the surrounding mountains. Down a cocktail or three, and find your pluck to pitch that brilliant Web idea you had.
8 p.m. 3)AMERICAN FARE 2.0
St. Michael's Alley (140 Homer Avenue, Palo Alto; 650-326-2530; www.stmikes.com) seized a page straight out of the valley playbook last year by reinventing itself and moving to an ambitious new home, a few blocks off crowded University Avenue in Palo Alto. Two and half years in the making, the restaurant now has three elegant dining areas, including a bar anchored by an artful hunk of walnut. The business casual attire matches the informal cuisine, which leans toward Californian and American fare. Dishes include a cider-cured center-cut pork chop with chipotle barbecue sauce and buttermilk mashed potatoes ($27).
10 p.m. 4)NUTS AND CIGARS
Shame on Stanford University's students for allowing such tame bars along their home turf, University Avenue. For a more energized crowd, head to nearby California Avenue. A favorite among Silicon Valley's young titans is Antonio's Nut House (321 California Avenue, Palo Alto; 650-321-2550; antoniosnuthouse.com), a low-key neighborhood bar where patrons can chuck their peanut shells on the floor, scribble on the walls and take a photo with a caged ''gorilla.'' Down the road is La Bodeguita del Medio (463 California Avenue, Palo Alto; 650-326-7762; labodeguita.com), a Cuban-style bar and restaurant that serves tall glasses of rum, along with hand-rolled cigars.
Saturday
9 a.m. 5)GOOGLE STREET VIEW
Unless you're the next Mark Zuckerberg, the high-tech campuses that dot the valley are off-limits. But there are ways to sneak a look. For a glimpse of the Googleplex (1600 Amphitheatre Parkway, Mountain View), the headquarters-cum-playground of Google, drive north on Shoreline Boulevard until you see a pair of colorful towers rising on your left. There's a small public park next to the entrance that peeks inside the laid-back campus. Grander views can be found through Airship Ventures (Building 20, South Akron Road; Moffett Field; 650-969-8100; airshipventures.com), a tour company that offers rides aboard a 246-foot-long airship. Tours, starting at $199 for a 30-minute ride, glide over geek hot spots like Apple's shimmering headquarters and Larry Ellison's 23-acre Japanese-style compound. The airship travels all along the West Coast, so check its Web site beforehand for schedules.
Noon 6)CAFETERIA FOOD
Some chefs parlay a reality show into a restaurant. Charlie Ayers used his stint as the top chef of the Googleplex cafeteria -- and a few of his Google shares -- to open Calafia Cafe (855 El Camino Real, Palo Alto; 650-322-9200; calafiapaloalto.com). The restaurant echoes the locally sourced philosophy that Mr. Ayers espoused at Google. It is split down the middle between a sit-down restaurant and to-go counter. Try the ''really angry'' pork tacos with minced habanero peppers and queso fresco ($12) or the tempura-battered chicken and waffles with bacon-studded pancakes ($13).
3 p.m. 7)COMPUTERS 101
The term ''Silicon Valley'' may have been coined in the early 1970s but the region's tech timeline goes way back. For a self-guided tour of computer lore, start at 367 Addison Avenue in Palo Alto, site of the humble wood garage where Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard started their company in 1939. Next, drive by 391 San Antonio Road in Mountain View, a squat, dilapidated produce shop that housed the first true silicon start-up -- Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory -- in 1955. Finally, swing by 844 Charleston Road in Palo Alto, an office building where Fairchild Semiconductor invented a commercial version of the integrated circuit in 1959. Much of that history is now lovingly captured at the Computer History Museum (1401 North Shoreline Boulevard, Mountain View; 650-810-1010; computerhistory.org), which plans to open a major exhibition on the first 2,000 years of computing next year.
8 p.m. 8)VIETNAMESE PLATES
Thanks to Google and its army of millionaires, Castro Street, the main drag in Mountain View, has undergone a culinary and night-life revival. Among the more bubbly spots is Xanh (110 Castro Street, Mountain View; 650-964-1888; xanhrestaurant.com), a sprawling Vietnamese fusion restaurant with a handsome patio and dining rooms bathed in green and blue lights. The playful names on the menu -- Duck Duck Good ($24) -- and cocktails -- Good Ruck ($9) -- fail to capture the elegance of the dishes, plated in delicate fashion with exotic sauces. On weekends, the bar/lounge turns into a quasi-nightclub, with D.J.'s and more cocktails.
10 p.m. 9)GEEK TALK
Sometime in April, an Apple software engineer lost an iPhone 4 prototype at Gourmet Haus Staudt (2615 Broadway; gourmethausstaudt.com), a German beer garden in Redwood City. Images of the prototype were splattered on Gizmodo, foiling the company's well-known obsession with secrecy. The beer garden has since shaken off its notoriety and remains a low-key place for engineers to gab about new software compilers, their Python wizardry and Android A.P.I.'s.
Sunday
9 a.m. 10)LOCAL HARVEST
Farmers' markets dot the valley on Sundays. One of the most bountiful is in the parking lot of the Caltrain Station in Mountain View (600 West Evelyn; 800-806-3276; cafarmersmkts.com), where flowers, fruits and vegetables are sold along with locally raised meats and artisanal cheeses. Vendors sell prepared foods as well, including homemade pork dumplings and fresh samosas.
11 a.m. 11)HEAD FOR THE HILLS
It's called a valley for a reason. The Santa Cruz Mountains rise along the valley's western edge and provide a treasure hunt for people willing to explore. Wineries like the Thomas Fogarty Winery (19501 Skyline Boulevard; Woodside; 650-851-6777; fogartywinery.com) sit atop the mountains, offering unrivaled views of the valley. Hikes abound. The Windy Hill Open Space Preserve (openspace.org), a 15-minute drive from Stanford University in Portola Valley, has a range of trails that cut through 1,312 acres of grassland ridges and redwood forests. By the end of the hike, you'll be able to spot Stanford, NASA Ames Research Center and the mega-mansions like a valley pro.
IF YOU GO
The nearest commercial airport is Mineta San Jose International Airport. JetBlue offers daily direct flights from Kennedy Airport, starting at about $279 round-trip, according to a recent Web search. Another option is to fly into San Francisco, about 30 miles to the north. A car is needed to get around, although there is limited local train service.
The Avatar Hotel in Santa Clara (4200 Great America Parkway; 408-235-8900; avatarhotel.com) caters to geek travelers in name and spirit. Newly remodeled, the 168-room hotel has free Wi-Fi and iPod docking stations. Room rates start at $79.
The Rosewood Sand Hill in Menlo Park (2825 Sand Hill; 650-561-1500; rosewoodsandhill.com) opened last year with 121 rooms and a handful of villas, on a 16-acre estate with stunning rose gardens overlooking the hills. Room rates from about $335.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM LEFT: Checking out an '80s microchess game at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View
chicken and waffles at Calafia Cafe in Palo Alto
 at Gourmet Haus Staudt in Redwood City. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIANNE MILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (69%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (63%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



148 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SOCIAL Q'S; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Like, Yeah, Totally

BYLINE: By PHILIP GALANES

 BODY:
My brother's longtime girlfriend is in her late 20s, but you'd likely peg her much younger. The culprit? She makes the end of every statement sound like a question. (She also draws out the last word of every sentence like thisssss.) She's been unsuccessful in her career and is unemployed. I bet prospective employers find her speech childish and immature. Should I encourage my brother to point it out?
M. S. 
There's a fine line between wanting to help someone, and being so annoyed that you want to squeeze her face until her eyes pop out, riiiight? So, what's driving you, Sister Woman? Do you really want to help your brother's longtime gal find a job, or have you simply had it up to here with the baby talk?
Only you can answer that one. But if your aim is true, and you're tight with Miss Cindy Brady (which means that you could hear constructive criticism from her in return), then go for it: ''Sometimes, the way you speak undercuts how smart you are.'' Then give an example or two (hundred).
Avoid involving your brother. That seems like talking about her behind her back. And if you're just plain annoyed by her speech patterns, or aren't that close, leave this one alone.
Because as Bob Dylan might have sung: ''She may not speak just like a woman, but she can wreak havoc just like a little girl.''
Not Twins
My husband and I employ a part-time nanny during the summer. We give her a nice bonus on Labor Day, as a percentage of her wages. This year, we employed two teenage sisters from our neighborhood; the older girl worked three days a week, and the younger two. They were both great, but the older sister went above and beyond the call of duty. She'll receive a larger bonus because she worked more days, but can we go beyond that even, for her better work? Or would that cause sisterly strife?
Anonymous, Minneapolis
Not to worry! If what I read in the news about our kids' math skills is true, they'll never follow the calculations, anyway. But since you are probably among these girls' first employers, why not turn the bestowing of bonuses into a lesson on the daily grind? Speak with the girls separately: ''You did a terrific job, so we're giving you a bonus based on your wages. We're giving Edie (the Elder) a little more because she so exceeded our expectations in organizing activities and cleaning up around the house.''
That way, whether you hire the girls again, or they move on to greener minimum-wage pastures, they'll understand that some bosses correlate output with reward. (And don't think twice about potential sisterly strife. If not this, they will surely find something else to quarrel over.)
Along for the Ride
My boyfriend and I shared a rental car with another couple on a weekend trip. My boyfriend drove no less than 90 miles an hour on the way there and emerged unscathed, while the girl from the other couple received a whopping speeding ticket, despite her much slower pace, on the way home. Are we obliged to split the cost of the ticket? Do respective financial situations matter?
Anonymous, New York
Of course, financial situations matter. And since none could be worse than New York State's, you should double the fine that's mailed in with the ticket -- since your beau was speeding, too.
Technically, you and your boyfriend (and even the ticketed driver's partner) have no obligation to chip in one cent. Officer Friendly caught only one of you behind the wheel.
Still, in the spirit of mensch-iosity and the shared purpose of your weekend, why not pitch in, if you can swing it?
Don't Miss Curfew
I've had many disagreements with my ''Social Register'' boss, but this one you can settle: He claims that a cocktail party invitation for ''6 to 8 p.m.'' means you can arrive anytime during that period and stay as late as you want. I think it means you're expected to leave by 8. Is he right?
Victoria, Yardley, Pa.
Maybe they rolled that way on the Mayflower, Victoria, or in blue-blooded circles composed of Hiltons and Mortimers prior to this last, tacky batch. But these days, the clear meaning of the invite is: ''See you after 6, scram by 8!''
For help with an awkward social situation, send queries to socialq@nytimes.com, or Social Q's, The New York Times Style Department, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include a daytime phone number.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); WOMEN (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); US LABOR DAY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (68%) MINNESOTA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



149 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
A YEAR AFTER CONFLICT,
A Chinese Region Seethes
Since July 2009, when rampaging Uighur mobs set upon Han Chinese with iron bars and bricks in the country's Xinjiang region -- a scene that was reversed for several days when Han vigilantes sought revenge -- the Chinese authorities have arrested hundreds and tried to soothe frayed nerves with a $1.5 billion spending package. But the push has done little to repair the mutual distrust. PAGE 6
BRAZIL'S EDUCATION WOES
Perhaps more than any other challenge facing Brazil today, education is a stumbling block in the country's bid to accelerate its economy and establish itself as one of the world's most powerful nations. PAGE 6 
COLOMBIA'S WAR BALLADS
A Colombian musical genre called corridos prohibidos, or prohibited ballads, describes the exploits of guerrilla commanders, paramilitary warlords, lowly coca growers and cocaine kingpins. Given the graphic depiction of the drug trade, some radio stations in Colombia keep the songs off their playlists, fearful of violent reprisals that might result from glorifying one side or another in the country's four-decade war. PAGE 10
National
FINAL PLUGGING OF BP WELL
Could Occur This Week
After successfully replacing a crucial piece of equipment atop its stricken well in the Gulf of Mexico, BP prepared to conduct tests that should allow the company to complete the process of permanently plugging the well sometime this week. PAGE 18
A TEMPERED TROPICAL STORM
A diminished Tropical Storm Earl left barely a hint of damage after slapping at Nantucket and the outer reaches of Cape Cod, allowing coastal vacationers and business owners to exhale as a blue-sky Labor Day weekend got under way. PAGE 15
New York
CITY CHILDREN ARE HEAVIER
Than National Average
New York City schoolchildren are as heavy, or perhaps even heavier, than the national average, despite the Bloomberg administration's dogged efforts to improve the health of city residents, according to new data from the city's health department. PAGE 18
Sports
YOUNG TENNIS PLAYERS
Opt for More Seasoning
Bigger, stronger athletes have made tennis more physical, placing a premium on the strength that comes with maturity, pushing more young players to stay in college longer before going pro. PAGE 1
PITCHING IN AN ALTERED STATE
Baseball has not had so many no-hitters in a season since 1991, when seven were thrown. But 40 years ago, Dock Ellis of the Pittsburgh Pirates raised the degree of difficulty to new, well, heights. He threw a no-hitter while pitching under the influence of LSD. PAGE 2
N.F.L.'S OFF-FIELD BATTLES
Having achieved feel-good nirvana -- a Super Bowl victory by the formerly downtrodden Saints from luckless New Orleans -- the league is now lurching toward economic reality, with its labor contract ending after this season. George Vecsey, Sports of the Times. PAGE 9
Obituaries
LARRY ASHMEAD, 78
He was one of America's most successful book editors, handling a best-selling stable of writers that included Susan Isaacs, Tony Hillerman, Isaac Asimov and Quentin Crisp. PAGE 21
Sunday Business
S.E.C. PUSH FOR LESS RELIANCE
On Ratings Agencies
While Moody's Investor Service received only a wrist slap last week by the Securities and Exchange Commission for its role during the mortgage mayhem, it and the other rating agencies are still in the S.E.C.'s sights. The commission's proposed changes to rules on how asset-backed securities are issued show a concerted effort to reduce investor reliance on ratings involving these securities. Gretchen Morgenson, Fair Game. PAGE 1
Arts & Leisure
THE UNFINISHED TALE
Of an Unlikely Hero
Known for the irascible persona he cultivated in ''American Splendor,'' Harvey Pekar, a writer whose comics were illustrated by other artists, was an improbable candidate for lasting glory. Now only his widow and the artists he worked with are left to narrate his final chapter, with nothing more at stake than the writer's modest legacy. PAGE 1
HBO ON THE BOARDWALK
The new HBO series ''Boardwalk Empire'' is set in Atlantic City in 1920, during the first year of Prohibition, and the show's creators have gone to painstaking lengths to recreate the era. PAGE 1
Magazine
TABLOID HACK ATTACK!
How a London paper listened in on the private voice mail messages of the rich and famous. PAGE 30
ITERATIONS OF SHATNER
The strange and multifarious career of William Shatner, an actor who always seems to be with us. PAGE 24
THE PEANUT SOLUTION
An easy-to-produce paste may represent the cure to malnourishment around the world. But who owns the recipe? PAGE 36
Book Review
FREEDOM TRAINS
In her first book, ''The Warmth of Other Suns,'' Isabel Wilkerson follows the journey of three Southern blacks, each representing a different decade of the Great Migration as well as a different destination. PAGE 1
STORMY WEATHER
The narrator of Giles Foden's new novel is a retired meteorologist looking back on the planning of the Normandy invasion, during which he and a team of scientists struggled to produce the reliable forecast that was required in choosing D-Day. PAGE 8
NO. 1 SLEUTH
Yunte Huang's book, ''Charlie Chan: The Untold Story of the Honorable Detective and His Rendezvous With American History,'' examines the character and the factors that account for his longevity. PAGE 12
Sunday Styles
VICTORIA BECKHAM:
Is She for Real?
She has mastered the argot of the cutting room with the same alacrity that has marked her other pursuits -- the voice and music lessons that laid the foundations for her career as the pop idol known as Posh Spice. In recent months, Ms. Beckham has emerged as an industry force, the wily maverick of New York Fashion Week. PAGE 1
A DAY TO DANCE OR WEEP?
Every year, there has been a strange confluence of events for those born on Sept. 11. It might be a point of pride to share a birthday with a literary lion like D. H. Lawrence, but sharing the day with a national tragedy is a problem. PAGE 1
Travel
WHERE THE EAST BEATS
'The Rest of London'
East London is a sprawling area known for its artists, anarchists and immigrants. Neighborhoods like Shoreditch, Bethnal Green and Hackney Wick have long been where members of the creative class could afford to live and work. Now it's also where they play, shop and eat. PAGE 9
6 DAYS, 6 STATES, 6 PEAKS
The world's Seven Summits -- the highest mountain on each continent -- were in the news this year when the Alaskan climber Vern Tejas set a record by ascending them all in just 134 days. Inspired by him, a reporter sets out to climb a few peaks of his own. PAGE 8
Week in Review
INSIDE CORRUPT-ISTAN
Since 2001, one of the unquestioned premises of American and NATO policy has been that ordinary Afghans do not view public corruption in quite the same way that Americans and others do in the West. But what if government corruption is more dangerous than the Taliban? PAGE 1
GOD AND POLITICS TOGETHER
It once looked as if President Obama might be able to end the nation's ideological and cultural polarization, but he has instead become engulfed in it, just like his two predecessors, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton. PAGE 1
Automobiles
BREAKING THE MOLD
Do you believe in love at first sight? Consider this: One look was about all it took when executives of Tata Motors, who in late 2007 were deciding whether to buy Jaguar from Ford Motor, saw sketches of what would become the 2011 XJ, a thoroughly modern, unfettered expression of luxury. PAGE 1
A CRASH, THEN A BILL
Ambulance charges have long been common, but fees for other responders are relatively new. The charge is variously called a ''crash tax'' or ''resource recovery,'' but in either case, motorists are billed for services they may have thought were covered by taxpayers. PAGE 1
Editorial
JOBS AND POLITICS
The latest jobs report was not as bad as economists had forecast. Unfortunately, exceeding low expectations and making progress are not the same thing. Week in Review, Page 7
BORDER NEWS
The border crackdown has been therapy for a nation spooked. But for solving the real problems of immigration, not so much. Week in Review, Page 7
A SOLUTION TO BEDBUGS
Government and industry need to expedite the search for better solutions to bedbugs. Week in Review, Page 7
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Hysteria about Islam is but a modern echo of past American worries about Catholics, Jews and others. Week in Review, Page 10
MAUREEN DOWD
Tony Blair on W., Dick and the mess they made in Iraq. Week in Review, Page 9
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
American has gone from being the world's superpower, with guns and butter for all, to being the frugal superpower. Get used to it. Week in Review, Page 8
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
Some call it opinion. Some call it point of view. Either way, some readers wonder what it is doing in the news pages. Week in Review, Page 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); MUSIC (90%); BASEBALL (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); LSD (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); CHILDREN (75%); COCAINE (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); MUSIC GENRES (69%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); WEATHER (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (66%); ATHLETES (66%); TENNIS (66%); SPORTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); US LABOR DAY (63%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (73%) COLOMBIA (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



150 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Coaches Take More Risks, But Perhaps Not Enough

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
When Dan Fouts played for the San Diego Chargers in the early 1980s, the N.F.L. was so conservative that Don Coryell's offense -- Air Coryell -- started a revolution merely by throwing on early downs because defenses were so predictably anticipating a run.
With the help of a series of rules changes, the Chargers nudged the N.F.L. toward becoming a passing league. They embraced aggressive play calling with such gusto that Fouts, who went into the Hall of Fame on the strength of his passing numbers, felt like a failure whenever the field-goal team came on the field.
Fouts analyzes the N.F.L. for CBS now, and although the pass has taken over football, the mind-set of the game has remained strikingly reserved. With the exception of a few high-profile recent examples -- New Orleans's shocking and successful onside kick to open the second half of last season's Super Bowl -- the N.F.L. still views risk as something to be avoided as assiduously as a holding penalty. 
Despite reams of data generated by economists and computer programmers indicating that coaches would improve their chances of winning by attempting more 2-point conversions or punting less often, the conventional wisdom of play calling remains more geared toward dodging disaster than encouraging innovation.
''Coaches are primarily conservative by nature,'' Fouts said. ''They don't want to lose their jobs because they made a stupid decision. They are making a lot of money.''
Fouts had the luxury of never wishing Coryell would think more creatively.
''My guy did,'' he said.
But as the high-powered offenses that Coryell helped spawn continue to exert their influence, having possession of the ball is increasingly valuable, encouraging at least a few secure coaches to buck convention for a chance to gain even a small edge. That was what drove the Saints' Sean Payton to go for the onside kick and, during the regular season, Bill Belichick's fourth-and-2 decision for New England against Indianapolis and Mike Tomlin's gamble on an onside kick after Pittsburgh, which had struggled to stop Green Bay, took a lead with about four minutes remaining.
Forget for a moment what this says about a coach's faith in his defense to stop some of the game's best quarterbacks. Consider, instead, what it may indicate about the future of play calling. If simply having the ball is so important, and if offenses are so good that points are more likely, might a coach have to channel his inner riverboat gambler more often to at least extend a possession? Might the mind-set rooted in 3 yards and a cloud of dust eventually give way to the go-go mentality of video gamers? Might the punt someday go the way of the leather helmet?
''You might have to steal a possession, or be more willing to go for it, to keep guys off the field,'' said Jon Gruden, a former Tampa Bay coach who is now a ''Monday Night Football'' analyst. ''It's no different than when you're in a foursome with Phil Mickelson or Tiger Woods -- you'll probably have to make some birdies and steal a shot or you're not going to win. You have to be a little more aggressive.''
Slowly, it seems, that message is getting through. In 2002, David H. Romer, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, published a paper after reviewing hundreds of games. He concluded that N.F.L. coaches choose to punt or attempt field goals on fourth down rather than try for the first down far more often than they should to maximize their chances of winning a game. The paper generated considerable discussion at the time, and not a small amount of derision in some quarters of the coaching community. Coaches, though, did not read it and fling open their playbooks. The status quo seemed as immovable as a 350-pound offensive tackle.
But statistics compiled by Brian Burke of AdvancedNFLstats.comindicate that while the rate of 2-point conversion attempts and onside kicks was unchanged from 2000 to 2008, offenses passed up the punt to try for the conversion on 12.4 percent of fourth downs. In 2009, the rate was 14.5 percent.
Conversion attempt numbers vary from year to year based on the number of opportunities and variations in circumstances, but the increase in 2009 encompassed nearly all field positions, Burke said, and the average to-go distances were no different from those for the rest of the decade. Interestingly, the rate of attempts in the first three quarters of games -- when principle was presumably driving the decision more than panic -- rose to 9.8 percent in 2009 from 7.4 percent earlier in the decade.
Still, Belichick, who earned an economics degree, shrugs off many statistics, holding his hands at incrementally greater distances to indicate that creating a blanket rule for going for it on fourth-and-1 will not work because the distance for the first down ranges from an inch to almost 2 yards. Coaches also take into consideration a range of factors, including the footing, which players are hurt and their trust in the defense. The former Miami Dolphins coach Don Shula, for instance, said he always felt comfortable going for it on fourth-and-goal from 1 or 2 yards because he had a virtual human bulldozer in Larry Csonka.
Though Belichick does not adhere to a formula, his play-calling penchants were influenced by the time he spent watching Wayne Hardin coach Navy in the early 1960s. Belichick was not yet a teenager, but he remembers Hardin's try-to-score philosophy, which apparently made a by-any-means-necessary impression on a boy who surprised an opponent 40 years later by intentionally taking a safety to change field position.
''I don't know what's usual or unusual,'' Belichick said. ''As a coach, you just try to win, whatever way there is. If you win and run the ball 70 times, there's nothing wrong with that.''
There is, though, an undeniable benefit some coaches cite when considering unorthodox plays. When Tomlin was a defensive assistant on Gruden's 2005 staff, he stood on the sideline while the Buccaneers scored with a minute left in the game to pull to 1 point behind Washington. The Redskins were called for a penalty during the extra-point attempt. Gruden, burdened by losses in the Buccaneers' previous two games, tried for the 2-point conversion and the win instead of settling for a nearly certain tie. Mike Alstott ran the ball in for a victory whose ripple effect reached Pittsburgh.
''It was electric,'' Tomlin said. ''That was one of those moments I'll never forget. I admired the belief, the fact that he didn't ponder the potential aftermath. It left an impression on me.''
Now, Tomlin acknowledges that unorthodox calls have a place in his playbook because in the era of parity, many games are determined by one play or the momentum it generates. He takes risks, he said, not just because the one play might offer the best chance of success, but also because ''it has the potential to be inspirational when they know you'll go to any lengths to win, even if it's far outside the box.''
That raises the question of why coaches are still not taking more risks, almost a decade after Romer's analysis and with the potential for immediate and long-term gains. Why, for instance, were only eight surprise onside kicks attempted last season, although Burke's analysis showed that from 2000 to 2008, when teams were likely to win given the score and the time remaining and they attempted the surprise kick, the recovery rate was 60 percent?
''That, to me, has been a puzzle,'' Romer said of the play calling. ''One possible answer is that these are difficult decisions, and a lot of our gut instinct is to be cautious, so they err on the side of not taking enough risks even though they're trying their hardest to win.
''Another possible answer is that despite all statements about winning being everything, they actually have preferences not just about the outcome of the game, but about how they get there. It feels more like winning by luck if you put everything on one play. But if you punt the ball away and send the defense to do their job and stop the other team on a full set of downs, it feels like it's more under your control.''
Perhaps so. But even coaches with an aggressive streak wonder how much further they are willing to go on the risk-reward continuum. The Jets' offensive coordinator, Brian Schottenheimer, who went for it on fourth-and-1 from San Diego's 29 while holding a 3-point lead with one minute to go in an A.F.C. divisional playoff game last season, conceded that he watched the Super Bowl and did not know if he would have had the nerve to try an onside kick like the Saints'.
For Romer, the desire to win will eventually overcome coaches' caution.
''If your offense got better and their offense got better, would you want to reconsider your decisions?'' he said. ''Unless a coach is insane, he's going to reconsider. But that doesn't mean he's making riskier decisions. Before, not going for it on fourth-and-1 was incredibly cautious. Now, it's not going for it on fourth-and-2 that's incredibly cautious. I've always thought that in the long run, the evidence of what's the best way to win is going to win out. I don't see how it can't. But it certainly doesn't look like we're seeing a rapid change.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (71%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (52%) LOUISIANA, USA (71%); NORTHEAST USA (52%); INDIANA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



151 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths SCHLAFF, MARVIN ALLEN

 BODY:
SCHLAFF--Marvin Allen, longtime United Nations official, died August 18 at his Greenwich Village home, of prostate cancer. He was born in Manhattan on August 14, 1926; public schools in the Bronx, and Birch Wathan; two years Columbia University's School of Engineering; U.S. Army, radio/radar mechanic; under G.I. Bill, Columbia College, B.A. 1948, and study in Paris; two years in Labor Division of the Marshall Plan. In 1952 returned to the U.S. with intent of becoming a union leader. 
Assembly-line worker in plants in California; communications equipment installer at Western Electric; active member of the Communications Workers of America. In 1953, he refused to sign a loyalty oath as required by the Bell System and told union members that they did not have to sign it as it was not a condition of employment; though he retained his job he lost his next union election and subsequently abandoned a union career. Moved to New York, M.A., Columbia's School of International Affairs; International Confederation of Free Trade Unions; International Labour Organisation, in Geneva and Addis Ababa. In 1965 joined the UN Secretariat, rising to the level of Director. As its Executive Officer was a prime mover in introducing word processing into the Department of Conference Services, which included the translation, printing, and publications sections. As Director of Program Planning worked on study recommending the creation of an integrated management information system in the UN. After retirement worked parttime as secretary of the joint appeals board/disciplinary committee, the UN's internal justice system. Survived by wife, Marcia; children Elizabeth of South Glastonbury, CT, Anthony of Brookline, MA, Abigail of Ann Arbor, MI; sister Ruth Meyers of Riverdale, NY; four grandchildren. Donations may be made to the New York Public Library, the neighborhood libraries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PROSTATE CANCER (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); ARMIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); LIBRARIES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); MARSHALL PLAN (57%); INTERNATIONAL CONFEDERATION OF FREE TRADE UNIONS (55%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



152 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: FICTION: MASS-MARKET: Sunday, September 5th 2010

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Saturday, August 21st 2010, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount and department stores; and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book&#8217;s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics; and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 
WeeksThisOnWeekListPAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: FICTION: MASS-MARKET123THE GIRL WITH THE DRAGON TATTOO, by Stieg Larsson. ($7.99 Vintage Crime/Black Lizard) A hacker and a journalist investigate the disappearance of a Swedish heiress.222THE GIRL WHO PLAYED WITH FIRE, by Stieg Larsson. ($7.99 Vintage Crime/Black Lizard) A Swedish hacker becomes a murder suspect.31FORD COUNTY, by John Grisham. ($7.99 Dell) Stories set in the same rural Mississippi locale as &#34;A Time to Kill.&#34;48CHARLIE ST. CLOUD, by Ben Sherwood. ($7.99 Bantam) Years after a man survives a car crash that kills his brother, their bond endures; originally published as &#34;The Death and Life of Charlie St. Cloud.&#34;54THE 8TH CONFESSION, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. ($9.99 Grand Central) Detective Lindsay Boxer and the Women&#8217;s Murder Club investigate a pair of killings.65SMASH CUT, by Sandra Brown. ($9.99 Pocket) A publicity-seeking lawyer tries to get to the bottom of who murdered a wealthy executive.76NINE DRAGONS, by Michael Connelly. ($9.99 Vision) The Los Angeles detective Harry Bosch fights crime at home and in Hong Kong.83RUNNING SCARED, by Lisa Jackson. ($7.99 Zebra/Kensington) A mother lives in fear that someone will discover that her 15-year-old son is not hers.94WORLD WITHOUT END, by Ken Follett. ($9.99 Signet) Love and intrigue in Kingsbridge, the medieval English cathedral town at the center of Follett&#8217;s &#8220;Pillars of the Earth.&#8221;104WATER BOUND, by Christine Feehan. ($7.99 Jove) A diver rescues a drowning man who has no memory of who he is or why he has the instincts of a trained killer.111DON&#39;T CRY, by Beverly Barton. ($7.99 Zebra/Kensington) A series of horrifying crimes brings together an investigator and a grief counselor in Chattanooga, Tenn.12*18DEAD AND GONE, by Charlaine Harris. ($7.99 Ace) Sookie Stackhouse seeks the killer of a werepanther.1325THE PILLARS OF THE EARTH, by Ken Follett. ($7.99 and $9.99 Signet) Murder, arson and lust surround the building of a 12th-century cathedral.1449DEAD UNTIL DARK, by Charlaine Harris. ($7.99 Ace) Sookie Stackhouse falls for a bad-boy vampire.15*23THE LAST SONG, by Nicholas Sparks. ($7.99 Grand Central) A 17-year-old spends the summer with her father in North Carolina and finds many kinds of love.164THE PARIS VENDETTA, by Steve Berry. ($9.99 Ballantine) The former Justice Department operative Cotton Malone searches for Napoleon&#8217;s lost treasure as he battles a cabal manipulating the global economy.17*4FANTASY IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. ($7.99 Berkley) Lt. Eve Dallas investigates the murder of a fantasy-game entrepreneur; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.184DAYS OF GOLD, by Jude Deveraux. ($7.99 Pocket Star) A rugged Scotsman helps an heiress reclaim her inheritance; the second book in the Edilean series.198THE LUCKY ONE, by Nicholas Sparks. ($7.99 Grand Central) A Marine returning home sets out to track down the woman whose photo he found in Iraq.207FINGER LICKIN&#8217; FIFTEEN, by Janet Evanovich. ($8.99 St. Martin&#8217;s) The bounty hunter Stephanie Plum tracks a celebrity chef&#8217;s killer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); MURDER (89%); WRITERS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (64%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (57%); JOHN GRISHAM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (52%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010



153 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''Central bankers alone cannot solve the world's economic problems.'' Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, who said the Fed couldn't conjure up a recovery just by manipulating interest rates and the money supply. 
''The reliance on album sales is very 20th century.'' Cliff Chenfeld, an owner of Razor and Tie, an independent record label in New York. Recently, album sales have plummeted, sales of singles have surged and new sources of revenue have emerged like fees for online music that are changing the definition of a hot artist.
''Consumers are being very cautious about where they spend their money.'' Emily Kolinski Morris, senior economist at the Ford Motor Company. Auto manufacturers said that their sales fell 21 percent, on average, in August, compared with a year earlier, when the cash-for-clunkers program was in full swing.
''You're talking about the ability to store hundreds of movies on a single chip.'' Richard Doherty, president of the Envisioneering Group, a consumer electronics market research company. Scientists say they have overcome a fundamental barrier to the continued rapid miniaturization of computer memory.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD REVENUES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); ELECTRONICS (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (57%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (52%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



154 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (HGTV) ALL AMERICAN HANDYMAN Don't let the title fool you. Five women will join 15 men to compete in an assortment of fix-it challenges in this search for the country's best nonprofessional Jack (or Jill) of all trades. The grand prize: a $10,000 shopping spree at Sears and a development deal with HGTV. The contest begins as the 20 finalists (one, Matthew McGuire, is above) are winnowed to 10 after their ingenuity and construction skills are sized up by the show's judges, Mike Holmes and Scott McGillivray. The guest judge is Bill Kiss, the chief marketing officer for tools and hardware for Sears. After the first cut, the remaining competitors will undertake a challenge in which they must identify the elements of a botched construction job; a power-tool test to determine their accuracy at measuring and cutting; and a trivia quiz. Molly Culver hosts. And Part 1 of Mr. Holmes's new two-episode special, ''Lien on Me,'' in which he helps a couple whose contractor has walked off the job, leads in at 8. 
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH CHRISTIANE AMANPOURIn conjunction with the publication of his autobiography, ''A Journey: My Political Life,'' the former British prime minister Tony Blair reflects on taking his country to war in Iraq, the fight against extremism and his biggest fears. He also shares his thoughts on American leaders, including the former presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and the former vice president Dick Cheney, as well as his impressions of Princess Diana and Queen Elizabeth II.
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY WITH CHRIS WALLACE Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Tim Kaine, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, discuss how issues including the economy, the war in Afghanistan and peace talks in the Middle East will affect the November election.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION The topic is ''Fixing the Economy: What Will It Take?'' The panel includes Laura Tyson, former chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers; Mark Zandi, chief economist with Moody's Analytics; and Gretchen Morgenson, assistant business and financial editor of The New York Times.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, discusses the end of combat operations in Iraq, the war in Afghanistan and the midterm elections. David Plouffe, the manager of the Obama 2008 presidential campaign and the author of ''The Audacity to Win: The Inside Story and Lessons of Barack Obama's Historic Victory,'' talks about the challenges facing President Obama.
8 P.M. (Style) JERSEYLICIOUS A second round of big hair and even bigger attitudes begins as Gayle Giacomo and Christy Pereira, the mother-daughter owners of Gatsby Salon in Green Brook, N.J., try to keep their stable of feisty beautifiers -- including the makeup artist Olivia Blois Sharpe and her arch rival, the hair stylist Tracy DiMarco -- under control. ''Mel B: It's a Scary World,'' a new series at 9, follows the former Spice Girl Melanie Brown as she rides the roller coaster of fame and motherhood.
9 P.M. (MyNetwork TV) THE 45TH ANNUAL JERRY LEWIS MDA TELETHON Mr. Lewis, working to the theme ''Make a Muscle, Make a Difference,'' is raising money for the Muscular Dystrophy Association in this traditional Labor Day event, broadcast from the South Point Hotel, Casino and Spa in Las Vegas. The guest list includes David Archuleta, Enrique Iglesias, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Barry Manilow, Nigel Lythgoe and Richard Belzer. The telethon last year raised more than $60 million in pledges and contributions.
9 P.M. (13, 49) INSPECTOR LEWIS, SERIES III: THE DEAD OF WINTER The discovery of the body of an Oxford history professor on a bus leads Lewis (Kevin Whately) and his sidekick, Detective Sgt. James Hathaway (Laurence Fox), to Crevecoeur Hall, a vast estate where Hathaway spent much of his childhood, in this ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' presentation. Nathaniel Parker (above right, with Richard Johnson) (''The Inspector Lynley Mysteries'') plays the estate owner's nephew, who's a little too close to his uncle's much-younger wife (Juliet Aubrey) for comfort.
9 P.M. (Discovery) 9/11: AFTER THE TOWERS FELL First responders describe navigating the rubble at ground zero and the race to rescue survivors.
9 P.M. (AMC) RUBICON A security breach at the American Policy Institute forces the F.B.I. to put the organization on lockdown. Meanwhile, Katherine (Miranda Richardson) decides that she is no longer safe in her home. In ''Mad Men,'' at 10, a deadline incites chaos at Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WOMEN (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); STRIKES (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (70%); BRITISH ROYALTY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICS (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (65%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); WRITERS (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (51%)

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (93%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: TIM KAINE (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (69%); DICK CHENEY (50%); ELIZABETH II (50%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (50%); PRINCESS DIANA (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



155 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 JAGUAR XJ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: They Liked It So Much They Bought the Brand

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
MONTEREY, Calif.
DO you believe in love at first sight? Consider this: One look was about all it took when executives of Tata Motors, who in late 2007 were deciding whether to buy Jaguar from Ford Motor, saw sketches of what would become the 2011 XJ.
''What we had coming to market,'' Gary Temple, president of Jaguar North America, said in a recent interview, ''was what made them buy the company.''
Developed largely before Tata, of India, took over, the new XJ is a bold, mold-breaking styling statement. The old XJ's long-running retro theme -- traditional grille, quad headlamps, sculptured hood, low beltline and long tail -- has finally been exorcized. While unmistakably a Jaguar, the new XJ is a thoroughly modern, flamboyant, unfettered expression of luxury.
Some loyalists feared that such a radical departure might alienate the typical Jaguar owner (known inside the company as the fictional ''Mrs. Schwartz on Long Island''). 
But based on early sales figures, two things seem apparent. The Jaguar faithful (presumably including Mrs. Schwartz) are still happily on board. And the new car's wow factor has smitten those who thought the XJ had become too old-school.
For more than 40 years, the XJ has been Jaguar's flagship. When originally introduced in 1968, the company's founder, Sir William Lyons, appeared in grainy television commercials extolling it as ''the greatest Jaguar -- ever!''
Indeed, while the original XJ was a landmark car -- it has been called the most beautiful sedan ever -- the XJ's iconic status within the company has for decades cowed those who longed for a bold update. The previous three major redesigns hewed closely to the look of the original.
''We were almost afraid to mess with it,'' Mr. Temple said. ''There was a limit to how far we wanted to take the design; we didn't want to lose the look we had nurtured for so long. But in doing that, to some degree, we will admit we lost our way.''
Well, then, welcome back.
''We are trying to bring the word 'sleek' back to Jaguar styling,'' said Ian Callum, the chief designer. ''It has not been easy.''
As an example, Mr. Callum cited the new instrument panel: ''It's nine inches lower than the previous car's dashboard. That wasn't just all hollow space behind there; it was full of components. All those things had to be relocated.''
The lowered dash gives the entire cabin a feeling of spaciousness -- the interior seems much larger than its predecessor. ''It's not,'' Mr. Callum assured me. ''We're talking about millimeters.''
The new interior ranks among the most elegant in the auto industry, irrespective of price. I slipped into the cabin of a top-line Supersport XJL, which is offered only by special order at a starting price of $114,075; it was like being admitted to an exclusive English club.
The scent of glove-soft leather was intoxicating; the seats are a select ''aniline'' hide, with contrasting piping, and embossed headrests. (Could I replace the Jag logo with my family crest? Yes, there is a bespoke order department.) There is leather, leather and more leather -- on the headliner, the door posts, the dashboard, the backs and sides of the seats, the center console.
My only wish was for a wood-trimmed steering wheel instead of one wrapped solely in leather.
The cabin is rimmed with choice wood -- materials other than wood, like carbon fiber, are available -- forming what Mr. Callum calls the ''Riva line.'' It is meant to evoke the shape of a classic Riva Aquarama mahogany speedboat.
In the back seat, matching ''business trays'' fold down from the front seatbacks. In long-wheelbase versions, stretched by five inches, the rear legroom is positively limousine-like. The vast expanses of leather, especially in look-at-me combinations like the wine-and-cream ''Bordeaux'' trim, can border on the garish. But isn't owning a Jaguar supposed to be about standing out?
Outside, a tall shoulder -- designers call it the ''tornado line'' -- runs the length of the body. This subtle design element visually links the feline-inspired headlamps to ''cat's claw'' taillights that sweep up from the bumper onto the top of the fender. The wheel arches bulge gracefully but muscularly from this line. The side window frames are blacked out, so the sleek silver accent around them stands out.
Much of the roof, along with the rear pillars, appears to be dark glass. On black cars, this treatment blends nicely; in lighter colors the contrast looks like two-tone paint. The effect may not be appreciated by everyone.
Even as the new XJ thumbs its nose at the old car, it does so while continuing to use many components carried over -- in the interest of cost savings -- from the midrange XF sedan and even the sporty XK coupe and convertible.
Jaguar lacks the development resources of larger competitors like Audi, BMW, Lexus or Mercedes-Benz. So Jaguar economizes by doing what custom coachbuilders did until World War II: creating elegantly appointed new bodies for existing mechnical components.
The new XJ has basically the same running gear and chassis -- with key refinements -- as the car it replaces. This is far from an impediment. Jaguar's distinctive all-aluminum chassis (another legacy of the Ford era) significantly reduces the car's weight and gives it a performance advantage over the competition. ''One of the hidden facts that many people are not aware of,'' Mr. Temple said, ''is that we offer the only 500-horsepower car without a gas-guzzler tax.''
The base XJ, with a 385-horsepower engine that breathes conventionally, has a fuel-economy rating of 16 miles per gallon in town, 23 on the highway. The Supercharged version is rated 15/22, and the more powerful Supersport, which is also supercharged, is 15/21.
The 385-horsepower base model hustles to 60 m.p.h. in less than six seconds; the 470-horsepower Supercharged models can do it in less than 5. Jaguar says the 510-horse Supersport has an official 0-to-60 time of 4.6 seconds, but Mr. Temple said with a wink, ''You can do better than that!''
Driving a Supersport on hilly roads near here, I found the off-the-line performance electrifying. In a straight line, the XJ tracked straight and true, although uneven pavement could unsettle it. Some body roll and suspension softness is expected in the land-yacht class, but in hairpin turns I appreciated the electronically self-adjusting shocks and competition-quick steering.
The car seemed rather tame in Standard driving mode, but the Dynamic setting imparts a more sporty feel. With firmer shock settings, more precise steering input, a torque curve that holds a gear longer and improved throttle response, the driving experience was richly improved.
But the 510-horsepower engine is so over-capable that it seemed bored on the highway. Even the 470-horsepower version burbled and stumbled when asked to obey speed limits. I preferred the efficient, direct response of the engine without the supercharger; when you punch the throttle in that car, the results are immediate, satisfying and much more than adequate.
All six XJ versions have a 6-speed automatic transmission and variants of a 5-liter V-8 from Ford, which remains Jaguar's powertrain supplier. (Because Jaguar sales are outstripping projections, Ford has been asked to exceed its contractual obligations and provide more engines.)
Jaguar does not currently have access to a V-6; the diesel engine it offers in Europe comes from Peugeot and is not the most modern design. ''We need to develop new sources for V-6s and diesels,'' Mr. Temple said. In this area, Jaguar remains at a decided disadvantage to its European rivals.
But most XJ buyers seem to prefer a V-8; half opt for superchargers. The long-wheelbase versions are chosen by nearly 70 percent of buyers. There was some discussion about offering only long-wheelbase XJs, but executives decided that enough people want the shorter version. ''We worried it might not fit in some garages,'' Mr. Temple said of the longer, more spacious variation. Mr. Callum says the shorter XJ looks sportier.
Prices start at $73,575 for the generously equipped base model; the long-wheelbase car is $7,000 more.
Jaguar claims a price advantage of some $10,000 over what it considers comparably equipped rivals like the Mercedes S-Class, BMW 7 Series and Audi A8, and an even greater edge over upper-crust competitors like the Maserati Quattroporte and Porsche Panamera. In addition, Jaguar has begun to offer free maintenance for all of its models for five years or 50,000 miles.
''We had quite an internal discussion about price,'' Mr. Callum, the designer, said with a wry smile. ''I thought we should have charged more. It's meant to look like a more expensive car.''
But Mike O'Driscoll, Jaguar's managing director, said: ''We'd like to sell a few of these. We'd like to think we've priced them accordingly.''
Supercharged versions, which start closer to $90,000, offer not only more power but options like a proprietary Bowers & Wilkins audio system. The six-figure Supersports are exquisite, anointed throughout with cut-above materials and entertaining extras like indirect mood lighting.
These are the kinds of charismatic, idiosyncratic features that once gave a Jaguars a personality unmatched by anything else on the road.
As recently as 20 years ago, Jaguar would have ranked high on any list of products epitomizing British luxury. Then it seemed to lose the recipe. Before handing the brand over to Tata, however, Ford seems to have rediscovered the missing ingredients.
INSIDE TRACK: Great leap forward.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BREAKING THE MOLD: The latest Jaguar XJ sedan is the first to depart from a styling theme established in the 1960s. (AU1)
COCOON: The new dashboard is nine inches lower, making the interior seem more spacious.
 MODERNIZED: Radical design changes include elimination of the XJ's traditional long rear deck. (AU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SALES FIGURES (71%)

COMPANY: TATA MOTORS LTD (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%)

TICKER: TTMT (LSE) (91%); TTM (NYSE) (91%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



156 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
JAY LENO
And man, how about those 33 trapped miners down there in Chile? They have plenty of food and water, but they're saying the rescue could take three months. I had no idea B.P. was operating down there. 
This past weekend marked five years since Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans. Back then, the economy was in a mess, there was a huge disaster in the Gulf, the president was on vacation when things were falling apart. Thank God that could never happen today.
Well Roger Clemens, forced to testify before Congress. Congress is very upset with Clemens, because they felt they were lied to. Good! Now you know how we feel!
Anyway, the 2012 presidential campaign has begun. Sarah Palin's going to Iowa to give a speech at a big Republican dinner, and Mitt Romney is giving a speech at a New Hampshire dinner. Of course, one is a pretty face with dyed hair, and the other is the former governor of Alaska, so it's going to be interesting to see what happens.
DAVID LETTERMAN
Folks have big plans for Labor Day? Labor Day, of course, is the one day a year we honor our workforce. Do we still have a workforce?
We go out and we buy a lot of products made in China. That's how we celebrate Labor Day.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Mike Luckovich: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Creators Syndicate
Jeff Stahler: The Columbus Dispatch, United Feature Syndicate
Mike Keefe: The Denver Post, dePIXion Features
 Steve Breen: The San Diego Tribune, Creators Syndicate 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US LABOR DAY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); MINE WORKERS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HURRICANES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (74%); MITT ROMNEY (70%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); SARAH PALIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (90%) LOUISIANA, USA (90%); ALASKA, USA (79%) CHILE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



157 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: The Struggling Economy, and the Political Struggle

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Why We Need a Second Stimulus'' (Op-Ed, Aug. 29):
I agree with Laura Tyson regarding the need for a large second stimulus. By Keynesian theory, when economic activity by the private sector has stalled, only the government can create such activity through a stimulus package. 
President Obama should not be duped into thinking that deficit reduction takes precedence over job creation. The loudest voices in support of deficit reduction belong to the same people who want him to fail as president. Mr. Obama should do the opposite of what this Republican chorus recommends. Building infrastructure, alternative energy and education should be priorities.
A plan for deficit reduction should be in the long term, and this intent should be announced to the public and financial institutions without equivocation.
Vikram Jayanty Houston, Aug. 29, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''What Can Be Done?'' (Week in Review, Aug. 29):
The words leapt off the page -- to me, the crux of the problem crystallized at the end of the article: ''The big question is, who's going to swallow the losses?'' says the economist Joseph Stiglitz. ''It should be the banks, but they don't want to.''
When did ''don't want to'' become an option?
How can we support a climate in which institutions benefit from the upside but are not required to also accept responsibility for the downside? Where did this economic Wonderland come from?
Until ''don't want to'' is replaced by ''you broke it, it's yours to fix,'' Ben Bernanke, the Treasury and the American people -- or Main Street, if you prefer -- are being most cynically used.
Mary Ann Sternberg Baton Rouge, La., Aug. 29, 2010
To the Editor:
I may be overly cynical, but has the concern about the deficit been raised as a stalking horse to prolong the economic downturn and assure Republican victories this fall?
It seems that Republican politicians in Washington have successfully made this issue the reason to delay or scuttle any effort to reduce unemployment and home foreclosures. They know that keeping up general discontent with the economy is one sure way to defeat Democratic incumbents, and possibly win back Congress.
It's shameful that the Republicans have no qualms about making so many people suffer for their political gains.
Edward A. Bryant New York, Aug. 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); JOB CREATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); FORECLOSURE (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (77%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



158 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''Central bankers alone cannot solve the world's economic problems.'' Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, who said the Fed couldn't conjure up a recovery just by manipulating interest rates and the money supply. 
''The reliance on album sales is very 20th century.'' Cliff Chenfeld, an owner of Razor and Tie, an independent record label in New York. Recently, album sales have plummeted, sales of singles have surged and new sources of revenue have emerged like fees for online music that are changing the definition of a hot artist.
''Consumers are being very cautious about where they spend their money.'' Emily Kolinski Morris, senior economist at the Ford Motor Company. Auto manufacturers said that their sales fell 21 percent, on average, in August, compared with a year earlier, when the cash-for-clunkers program was in full swing.
''You're talking about the ability to store hundreds of movies on a single chip.'' Richard Doherty, president of the Envisioneering Group, a consumer electronics market research company. Scientists say they have overcome a fundamental barrier to the continued rapid miniaturization of computer memory.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD REVENUES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); ELECTRONICS (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (57%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (52%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



159 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (HGTV) ALL AMERICAN HANDYMAN Don't let the title fool you. Five women will join 15 men to compete in an assortment of fix-it challenges in this search for the country's best nonprofessional Jack (or Jill) of all trades. The grand prize: a $10,000 shopping spree at Sears and a development deal with HGTV. The contest begins as the 20 finalists (one, Matthew McGuire, is above) are winnowed to 10 after their ingenuity and construction skills are sized up by the show's judges, Mike Holmes and Scott McGillivray. The guest judge is Bill Kiss, the chief marketing officer for tools and hardware for Sears. After the first cut, the remaining competitors will undertake a challenge in which they must identify the elements of a botched construction job; a power-tool test to determine their accuracy at measuring and cutting; and a trivia quiz. Molly Culver hosts. And Part 1 of Mr. Holmes's new two-episode special, ''Lien on Me,'' in which he helps a couple whose contractor has walked off the job, leads in at 8. 
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH CHRISTIANE AMANPOURIn conjunction with the publication of his autobiography, ''A Journey: My Political Life,'' the former British prime minister Tony Blair reflects on taking his country to war in Iraq, the fight against extremism and his biggest fears. He also shares his thoughts on American leaders, including the former presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and the former vice president Dick Cheney, as well as his impressions of Princess Diana and Queen Elizabeth II.
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY WITH CHRIS WALLACE Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Tim Kaine, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, discuss how issues including the economy, the war in Afghanistan and peace talks in the Middle East will affect the November election.
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION The topic is ''Fixing the Economy: What Will It Take?'' The panel includes Laura Tyson, former chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers; Mark Zandi, chief economist with Moody's Analytics; and Gretchen Morgenson, assistant business and financial editor of The New York Times.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, discusses the end of combat operations in Iraq, the war in Afghanistan and the midterm elections. David Plouffe, the manager of the Obama 2008 presidential campaign and the author of ''The Audacity to Win: The Inside Story and Lessons of Barack Obama's Historic Victory,'' talks about the challenges facing President Obama.
8 P.M. (Style) JERSEYLICIOUS A second round of big hair and even bigger attitudes begins as Gayle Giacomo and Christy Pereira, the mother-daughter owners of Gatsby Salon in Green Brook, N.J., try to keep their stable of feisty beautifiers -- including the makeup artist Olivia Blois Sharpe and her arch rival, the hair stylist Tracy DiMarco -- under control. ''Mel B: It's a Scary World,'' a new series at 9, follows the former Spice Girl Melanie Brown as she rides the roller coaster of fame and motherhood.
9 P.M. (MyNetwork TV) THE 45TH ANNUAL JERRY LEWIS MDA TELETHON Mr. Lewis, working to the theme ''Make a Muscle, Make a Difference,'' is raising money for the Muscular Dystrophy Association in this traditional Labor Day event, broadcast from the South Point Hotel, Casino and Spa in Las Vegas. The guest list includes David Archuleta, Enrique Iglesias, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Barry Manilow, Nigel Lythgoe and Richard Belzer. The telethon last year raised more than $60 million in pledges and contributions.
9 P.M. (13, 49) INSPECTOR LEWIS, SERIES III: THE DEAD OF WINTER The discovery of the body of an Oxford history professor on a bus leads Lewis (Kevin Whately) and his sidekick, Detective Sgt. James Hathaway (Laurence Fox), to Crevecoeur Hall, a vast estate where Hathaway spent much of his childhood, in this ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' presentation. Nathaniel Parker (above right, with Richard Johnson) (''The Inspector Lynley Mysteries'') plays the estate owner's nephew, who's a little too close to his uncle's much-younger wife (Juliet Aubrey) for comfort.
9 P.M. (Discovery) 9/11: AFTER THE TOWERS FELL First responders describe navigating the rubble at ground zero and the race to rescue survivors.
9 P.M. (AMC) RUBICON A security breach at the American Policy Institute forces the F.B.I. to put the organization on lockdown. Meanwhile, Katherine (Miranda Richardson) decides that she is no longer safe in her home. In ''Mad Men,'' at 10, a deadline incites chaos at Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WOMEN (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); STRIKES (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (70%); BRITISH ROYALTY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICS (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (65%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); WRITERS (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (51%)

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (93%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: TIM KAINE (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (69%); DICK CHENEY (50%); ELIZABETH II (50%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (50%); PRINCESS DIANA (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



160 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2011 JAGUAR XJ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: They Liked It So Much They Bought the Brand

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
MONTEREY, Calif.
DO you believe in love at first sight? Consider this: One look was about all it took when executives of Tata Motors, who in late 2007 were deciding whether to buy Jaguar from Ford Motor, saw sketches of what would become the 2011 XJ.
''What we had coming to market,'' Gary Temple, president of Jaguar North America, said in a recent interview, ''was what made them buy the company.''
Developed largely before Tata, of India, took over, the new XJ is a bold, mold-breaking styling statement. The old XJ's long-running retro theme -- traditional grille, quad headlamps, sculptured hood, low beltline and long tail -- has finally been exorcized. While unmistakably a Jaguar, the new XJ is a thoroughly modern, flamboyant, unfettered expression of luxury.
Some loyalists feared that such a radical departure might alienate the typical Jaguar owner (known inside the company as the fictional ''Mrs. Schwartz on Long Island''). 
But based on early sales figures, two things seem apparent. The Jaguar faithful (presumably including Mrs. Schwartz) are still happily on board. And the new car's wow factor has smitten those who thought the XJ had become too old-school.
For more than 40 years, the XJ has been Jaguar's flagship. When originally introduced in 1968, the company's founder, Sir William Lyons, appeared in grainy television commercials extolling it as ''the greatest Jaguar -- ever!''
Indeed, while the original XJ was a landmark car -- it has been called the most beautiful sedan ever -- the XJ's iconic status within the company has for decades cowed those who longed for a bold update. The previous three major redesigns hewed closely to the look of the original.
''We were almost afraid to mess with it,'' Mr. Temple said. ''There was a limit to how far we wanted to take the design; we didn't want to lose the look we had nurtured for so long. But in doing that, to some degree, we will admit we lost our way.''
Well, then, welcome back.
''We are trying to bring the word 'sleek' back to Jaguar styling,'' said Ian Callum, the chief designer. ''It has not been easy.''
As an example, Mr. Callum cited the new instrument panel: ''It's nine inches lower than the previous car's dashboard. That wasn't just all hollow space behind there; it was full of components. All those things had to be relocated.''
The lowered dash gives the entire cabin a feeling of spaciousness -- the interior seems much larger than its predecessor. ''It's not,'' Mr. Callum assured me. ''We're talking about millimeters.''
The new interior ranks among the most elegant in the auto industry, irrespective of price. I slipped into the cabin of a top-line Supersport XJL, which is offered only by special order at a starting price of $114,075; it was like being admitted to an exclusive English club.
The scent of glove-soft leather was intoxicating; the seats are a select ''aniline'' hide, with contrasting piping, and embossed headrests. (Could I replace the Jag logo with my family crest? Yes, there is a bespoke order department.) There is leather, leather and more leather -- on the headliner, the door posts, the dashboard, the backs and sides of the seats, the center console.
My only wish was for a wood-trimmed steering wheel instead of one wrapped solely in leather.
The cabin is rimmed with choice wood -- materials other than wood, like carbon fiber, are available -- forming what Mr. Callum calls the ''Riva line.'' It is meant to evoke the shape of a classic Riva Aquarama mahogany speedboat.
In the back seat, matching ''business trays'' fold down from the front seatbacks. In long-wheelbase versions, stretched by five inches, the rear legroom is positively limousine-like. The vast expanses of leather, especially in look-at-me combinations like the wine-and-cream ''Bordeaux'' trim, can border on the garish. But isn't owning a Jaguar supposed to be about standing out?
Outside, a tall shoulder -- designers call it the ''tornado line'' -- runs the length of the body. This subtle design element visually links the feline-inspired headlamps to ''cat's claw'' taillights that sweep up from the bumper onto the top of the fender. The wheel arches bulge gracefully but muscularly from this line. The side window frames are blacked out, so the sleek silver accent around them stands out.
Much of the roof, along with the rear pillars, appears to be dark glass. On black cars, this treatment blends nicely; in lighter colors the contrast looks like two-tone paint. The effect may not be appreciated by everyone.
Even as the new XJ thumbs its nose at the old car, it does so while continuing to use many components carried over -- in the interest of cost savings -- from the midrange XF sedan and even the sporty XK coupe and convertible.
Jaguar lacks the development resources of larger competitors like Audi, BMW, Lexus or Mercedes-Benz. So Jaguar economizes by doing what custom coachbuilders did until World War II: creating elegantly appointed new bodies for existing mechnical components.
The new XJ has basically the same running gear and chassis -- with key refinements -- as the car it replaces. This is far from an impediment. Jaguar's distinctive all-aluminum chassis (another legacy of the Ford era) significantly reduces the car's weight and gives it a performance advantage over the competition. ''One of the hidden facts that many people are not aware of,'' Mr. Temple said, ''is that we offer the only 500-horsepower car without a gas-guzzler tax.''
The base XJ, with a 385-horsepower engine that breathes conventionally, has a fuel-economy rating of 16 miles per gallon in town, 23 on the highway. The Supercharged version is rated 15/22, and the more powerful Supersport, which is also supercharged, is 15/21.
The 385-horsepower base model hustles to 60 m.p.h. in less than six seconds; the 470-horsepower Supercharged models can do it in less than 5. Jaguar says the 510-horse Supersport has an official 0-to-60 time of 4.6 seconds, but Mr. Temple said with a wink, ''You can do better than that!''
Driving a Supersport on hilly roads near here, I found the off-the-line performance electrifying. In a straight line, the XJ tracked straight and true, although uneven pavement could unsettle it. Some body roll and suspension softness is expected in the land-yacht class, but in hairpin turns I appreciated the electronically self-adjusting shocks and competition-quick steering.
The car seemed rather tame in Standard driving mode, but the Dynamic setting imparts a more sporty feel. With firmer shock settings, more precise steering input, a torque curve that holds a gear longer and improved throttle response, the driving experience was richly improved.
But the 510-horsepower engine is so over-capable that it seemed bored on the highway. Even the 470-horsepower version burbled and stumbled when asked to obey speed limits. I preferred the efficient, direct response of the engine without the supercharger; when you punch the throttle in that car, the results are immediate, satisfying and much more than adequate.
All six XJ versions have a 6-speed automatic transmission and variants of a 5-liter V-8 from Ford, which remains Jaguar's powertrain supplier. (Because Jaguar sales are outstripping projections, Ford has been asked to exceed its contractual obligations and provide more engines.)
Jaguar does not currently have access to a V-6; the diesel engine it offers in Europe comes from Peugeot and is not the most modern design. ''We need to develop new sources for V-6s and diesels,'' Mr. Temple said. In this area, Jaguar remains at a decided disadvantage to its European rivals.
But most XJ buyers seem to prefer a V-8; half opt for superchargers. The long-wheelbase versions are chosen by nearly 70 percent of buyers. There was some discussion about offering only long-wheelbase XJs, but executives decided that enough people want the shorter version. ''We worried it might not fit in some garages,'' Mr. Temple said of the longer, more spacious variation. Mr. Callum says the shorter XJ looks sportier.
Prices start at $73,575 for the generously equipped base model; the long-wheelbase car is $7,000 more.
Jaguar claims a price advantage of some $10,000 over what it considers comparably equipped rivals like the Mercedes S-Class, BMW 7 Series and Audi A8, and an even greater edge over upper-crust competitors like the Maserati Quattroporte and Porsche Panamera. In addition, Jaguar has begun to offer free maintenance for all of its models for five years or 50,000 miles.
''We had quite an internal discussion about price,'' Mr. Callum, the designer, said with a wry smile. ''I thought we should have charged more. It's meant to look like a more expensive car.''
But Mike O'Driscoll, Jaguar's managing director, said: ''We'd like to sell a few of these. We'd like to think we've priced them accordingly.''
Supercharged versions, which start closer to $90,000, offer not only more power but options like a proprietary Bowers & Wilkins audio system. The six-figure Supersports are exquisite, anointed throughout with cut-above materials and entertaining extras like indirect mood lighting.
These are the kinds of charismatic, idiosyncratic features that once gave a Jaguars a personality unmatched by anything else on the road.
As recently as 20 years ago, Jaguar would have ranked high on any list of products epitomizing British luxury. Then it seemed to lose the recipe. Before handing the brand over to Tata, however, Ford seems to have rediscovered the missing ingredients.
INSIDE TRACK: Great leap forward.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BREAKING THE MOLD: The latest Jaguar XJ sedan is the first to depart from a styling theme established in the 1960s. (AU1)
COCOON: The new dashboard is nine inches lower, making the interior seem more spacious.
 MODERNIZED: Radical design changes include elimination of the XJ's traditional long rear deck. (AU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SALES FIGURES (71%)

COMPANY: TATA MOTORS LTD (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%)

TICKER: TTMT (LSE) (91%); TTM (NYSE) (91%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010



161 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Bedbugs? Other Strange Invaders Threaten Much Wider Damage

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ACRA, N.Y.
You have perhaps heard about the bugs. In fact, it's hard to turn on the television or read a newspaper without hearing more about bedbugs. In your mattress, at the office, the theater, the Brooklyn district attorney's office, the Empire State Building -- from New York to Portland, it's the summer's It bug.
But at the Cornell University Agroforestry Resource Center in the Catskills, they are more concerned with a less celebrated bug, the emerald ash borer. Native to China, it was first detected in the United States in Michigan in 2002 -- perhaps arriving in packing material with shipments to auto plants. Since then it has spread across the upper Midwest and into Canada, killing tens of millions of ash trees. It was first reported in New York in June 2009 in Cattaraugus County in southwestern New York. 
This June it was discovered in Ulster and Greene Counties in the Catskills, including in the Catskill Forest Preserve. The larvae of the ash borer, a beetle with metallic green wing covers, burrow into tree bark, killing the tree in one to three years. There is no known systemic way to stop its spread or to save infested trees.
Entomologists say the bug, smaller than a penny, has the potential to kill off the 900 million ash trees in New York and the 7 billion ash trees in North America, driving the ash to extinction in a way that would surpass the damage that all but killed off the American chestnut and the elm.
''I've been a forest entomologist for 30 years, and I had no idea anything as bad as this could ever happen,'' Mark C. Whitmore, an expert on the ash borer at Cornell, said. ''The only worse thing would be the spread of the Asian longhorn beetle.''
As metaphor, the tale of two bugs, bedbug and ash borer, is perhaps too pat but is still true: Under our nose or in our bed, any pest is a huge pest, even one that causes serious annoyance but doesn't carry disease. For those far away, out of sight, we'll wait until disaster stares us in the face before we pay attention.
Ash trees make up 7 percent of the trees in New York State and about 10 percent of the hardwoods. Losing the ash trees, which are strong and elastic, and are used for, among other things, bows, tool handles and baseball bats, would have enormous economic costs. Beyond industrial and forestry losses, one of the biggest costs would be to individuals and municipalities that would have to cut down brittle, dead trees by the millions to avoid the danger of falling, damaged limbs.
Beyond that, the cost to the health and diversity of the forests and ecosystems that depend on them can only be guessed at.
''Nobody knows how it's going to impact the overall function and composition of the forest,'' said Marilyn Wyman of Cornell Cooperative Extension, who is working to educate people in the Catskills about the emerald ash borer. ''You can't continue to take pieces out of the system and not have something happen.''
FOR now, she and others are desperately trying to spread the word that the best way to slow the infestation's spread is to not move firewood. The bugs fly, but it is believed that their rapid spread from the far western part of New York to the Catskills came in untreated wood used at campsites. Since 2008, it has been illegal to bring into the state or transport for more than 50 miles untreated wood that has not been kiln-dried to meet state standards.
The ash borer is only one among dozens of types of invasive plants, animals, insects and pathogens in New York alone that reflect the way human activity, usually unwitting, is altering the environment. Most recently, an invasive Asian clam, Corbicula fluminea, blamed for algal blooms that clouded Lake Tahoe, has been found in Lake George.
And the disruptions to the environment go well beyond invasive creatures, like the dire reports this summer of drastic declines, probably because of higher temperatures, in the ocean phytoplanktonthat support much of the life on earth. Weather is not climate, but in this hottest summer ever recorded in New York, in the earth's hottest decade ever measured, one historically torrid year after another, it gets increasingly difficult to credibly refute the notion that human behavior is affecting the earth's climate, just as it is affecting those forests, lakes and trees.
Still, on a lovely final weekend of summer, with Hurricane Earl blundering out to sea and with no shortage of ways to amuse, distract and entertain ourselves, it is easy to worry about what's in our bed and ignore what's in our future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The emerald ash borer (enlarged in this photo) kills ash trees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BED BUGS (93%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); ENTOMOLOGY (89%); MOUNTAINS (76%); BIODIVERSITY (74%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); BIOLOGY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (57%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



162 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: In Europe's Debt Crisis, Lending Was Still Strong

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
Even as Europe's sovereign debt crisis intensified early this year, banks continued to load up on debt from Greece and other countries with the most acute fiscal problems, according to a report released on Sunday.
The report suggests that the European Central Bank inadvertently encouraged institutions to increase their risk as it tried to stabilize the banking system.
Banks increased the amount of credit they extended to governments and the private sector in Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain by 4.3 percent, or $109 billion, in the first quarter of 2010 compared with the previous quarter, the quarterly report from the Bank for International Settlements said. The additional credit brought banks' total exposure to those countries to $2.6 trillion. The Bank for International Settlements, in Basel, Switzerland, serves as a clearinghouse for the world's central banks. 
European banks increased their holdings to the four countries more than banks from the United States or other places outside of Europe, possibly because banks in the euro zone could use debt from Greece and the other countries as collateral for low-interest loans from the European Central Bank, the report said.
The European Central Bank has been lending euro zone banks as much as they want at 1 percent interest, provided the banks could provide collateral like government bonds. The liquidity has helped weaker banks survive periods when they were unable to borrow from other banks or outside investors.
The fact that higher-risk European debt was less liquid, or harder to sell quickly, ''was less of a concern for euro area banks than for other banks since the former could 'liquefy' this debt in their operations with the E.C.B.,'' the Bank for International Settlements said.
The data suggest that the European Central Bank was effectively encouraging euro zone banks to buy debt from Greece and the other troubled countries. The policy supported Greece and Spain as they sold new bonds but also meant that euro zone banks were taking on more risk at a time when the central bank had been trying to stabilize the European financial system.
The central bank has been trying to dial down its support for euro zone banks, but last week extended the policy of unlimited lending to banks at least through mid-January, amid signs that some institutions are still unable to raise all the money they need.
The central bank has tightened its criteria for the collateral. The bank now imposes so-called haircuts of as much as 29 percent on government debt used as collateral, meaning that banks cannot borrow at the full face value of the bonds. That policy could reduce the incentive for banks to buy the riskier debt.
German and French banks continued to be the most heavily exposed to debt from the countries on the periphery of the euro zone. French exposure to Greece alone was $111.6 billion, though only $27 billion of that was government debt. The rest was credit to Greek businesses and individuals, derivatives contracts or other categories. German banks' exposure to Greece totaled $51 billion, of which $23.1 billion was government debt.
American banks hold $41.2 billion in debt or other exposure to Greece, the report said. Only $5.4 billion of that sum was government debt.
German banks were particularly exposed to Ireland, with total exposure of $205.8 billion, exceeded only by British banks, with $222.4 billion. Almost all the German credit to Ireland was in the private sector, the report said.
The Bank for International Settlements did not give any information on individual institutions, but Germany's high exposure to Ireland probably stems at least in part from Hypo Real Estate, a bank in Munich. Hypo Real Estate's subsidiary in Dublin suffered liquidity problems in late 2008. The German government now owns the bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO CRISIS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); BOND ISSUES (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GREECE (92%); SPAIN (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



163 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: That '70s Feeling

BYLINE: By JEFFERSON COWIE. 
Jefferson Cowie, an associate professor of labor history at Cornell, is the author of ''Stayin' Alive: The 1970s and the Last Days of the Working Class.''

 BODY:
Ithaca, N.Y
TODAY we celebrate the American labor force, but this year's working-class celebrity hero made his debut almost a month ago. Steven Slater, a flight attendant for JetBlue, ended his career by cursing at his passengers over the intercom and grabbing a couple of beers before sliding down the emergency-evacuation chute -- and into popular history.
The press immediately drew parallels between Mr. Slater's outburst and two iconic moments of 1970s popular culture: Howard Beale's ''I'm mad as hell'' rant from the 1976 film ''Network'' and Johnny Paycheck's 1977 anthem of alienation, ''Take This Job and Shove It.'' 
But these are more than just parallels: those late '70s events are part of the cultural foundation of our own time. Less expressions of rebellion than frustration, they mark the final days of a time when the working class actually mattered.
The '70s began on a remarkably hopeful -- and militant -- note. Working-class discontent was epidemic: 2.4 million people engaged in major strikes in 1970 alone, all struggling with what Fortune magazine called an ''angry, aggressive and acquisitive'' mood in the shops.
Most workers weren't angry over wages, though, but rather the quality of their jobs. Pundits often called it ''Lordstown syndrome,'' after the General Motors plant in Ohio where a young, hip and interracial group of workers held a three-week strike in 1972. The workers weren't concerned about better pay; instead, they wanted more control over what was then the fastest assembly line in the world.
Newsweek called the strike an ''industrial Woodstock,'' an upheaval in employment relations akin to the cultural upheavals of the 1960s. The ''blue-collar blues'' were so widespread that the Senate opened an investigation into worker ''alienation.''
But what felt to some like radical change in the heartland was really the beginning of the end -- not just of organized labor's influence, but of the very presence of workers in national civic life.
When the economy soured in 1974, business executives dismissed workers' complaints about the quality of their occupational life -- and then went gunning for their paychecks and their unions as well, abetted by a conservative political climate and the offshoring of the nation's industrial core. Inflation, not unemployment, became Public Enemy No. 1, and workers bore the political costs of the fight against it.
Though direct workplace confrontations quickly dropped off, the feelings that had fueled them did not. Analysts began talking of an ''inner class war'' -- more psychological than material, more anxious than angry, more about self-worth than occupational justice.
''Something's happening to people like me,'' Dewey Burton, an assembly-line worker for Ford, told The Times in 1974. ''More and more of us are sort of leaving our hopes outside in the rain and coming into the house and just locking the door -- you know, just turning the key and 'click,' that's it for what we always thought we could be.''
Johnny Paycheck, a country singer, understood. Throngs of working-class people may have gathered around jukeboxes to raise a glass and chant the famous chorus to his most famous song, but they knew that his urge to rebellion was really just a fantasy: ''I'd give the shirt right off of my back / If I had the nerve to say / Take this job and shove it!''
Similarly, in ''Network,'' Howard Beale, a TV news anchor played by Peter Finch, became famous as ''the mad prophet of the airwaves.'' But while he and his audiences may have been yelling, ''I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore!'' the tag line was more a psychological release than a call to arms. After all, at the end of the film, Beale, already in suicidal despair, is murdered by his employer for meddling with the system.
The overt class conflict of the late '70s ended a while ago. Workers have learned to internalize and mask powerlessness, but the internal frustration and struggle remain. Any questions about quality of work life, the animating issue of 1970s unrest, have long since disappeared -- despite the flat-lining of wages in the decades since. Today the concerns of the working class have less space in our civic imagination than at any time since the Industrial Revolution.
Occasionally a rebel shatters the silence. Like Steven Slater, though, they get more publicity than political traction. Many things about America have changed since the late '70s, but the soundtrack of working-class life, sadly, remains the same.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); DISMISSALS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



164 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Floods in Pakistan Carry the Seeds of Upheaval

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

 BODY:
THATA SIAL, Pakistan -- When the governor of Punjab Province arrived recently in this small town with truckloads of relief goods for flood victims, his visit was as much a political mission as a humanitarian one. His message to the hundred or so displaced people gathered under an awning was that the government was there for them.
''The people say this was an act of God,'' the governor, Salman Taseer, said in an interview after reassuring the crowd. ''But what comes now, they say, is the act of man. If we don't deliver, they will not forgive us.''
After scathing criticism that they were unprepared for the disaster and inept in their initial response, government officials, ministers and even President Asif Ali Zardari are crisscrossing flood-affected areas of the country in a frantic effort to ease public anger and despair. 
Pakistani officials, diplomats and aid workers warn that while civil unrest has so far been averted, the aftermath of the worst-ever flooding in Pakistan could destabilize the country in the months to come and aggravate the already deep regional, sectarian and class fissures.
Management of the disaster has added to the distrust that many Pakistanis already feel for their civilian political leaders, while the armed forces have burnished their image performing rescue and relief missions along the length of the flooded areas.
There have been angry accusations from politicians and flood victims that officials have guided relief to their own party supporters, and serious allegations that powerful landlords and politicians diverted surging floodwaters to protect their own lands at the expense of others.
Most political commentators say the president and his government are safe for the time being, if only because no one wants to take on the immense responsibilities of the crisis. And the main opposition leader, former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, does not appear ready to test his party in national elections.
The coalition government, headed by the Pakistan Peoples Party, has been in power only two years. After nine years of military rule before that, the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, seems to have little appetite to take on direct management of the country while he can enhance the military's image away from the political limelight.
The real dangers for the government may lurk once the first phase of the emergency passes. Many flood victims will accept immediate hardship, but will be less able to withstand prolonged hunger and homelessness, Pakistani officials and aid workers say.
Demonstrations by flood victims have so far been only sporadic and mostly peaceful. In one typical episode on Tuesday, village women sat blocking traffic for 20 minutes across a main highway in southern Sindh Province, until the police promised to make sure they received some aid.
But the government, already saddled with severe economic and security problems, may not survive the large-scale social upheaval and long-term hardship from the floods -- including a lack of housing, food shortages and price spikes -- officials, diplomats and aid workers warned.
The floods have affected an estimated 20 million people, an eighth of the population. Millions of dollars' worth of crops and livestock have been lost. No region has escaped the destruction.
The floods are still devouring villages and farmland in the southern province of Sindh, and about 800,000 people remain stranded and without food, Josette Sheeran, executive director of the World Food Program of the United Nations, said in an interview during a visit to Pakistan last week. Nearly 10 million people are considered short of food and their situation will remain precarious for six months to a year, she said.
Ms. Sheeran, too, warned of more dangerous long-term effects. People face a triple threat, she said: loss of crops, loss of seed for the next planting season and loss of a daily income.
Amid the emergency, politicians seem to have become absorbed in scoring points and squabbling, which has added to the disillusionment many Pakistanis already feel for their leaders, many of whom are rich landowners.
Much of the media and the main opposition leader, Mr. Sharif, castigated President Zardari for going ahead with a visit to France and Britain when the floods first occurred, and expressed doubts that the government would manage the inflow of assistance honestly. Mr. Sharif suggested an independent commission to oversee the relief effort, an idea President Zardari swiftly rejected.
Mr. Taseer, who like the president is a member of the Pakistan Peoples Party, took a swipe at Mr. Sharif in his speech here to flood victims.
''Nawaz Sharif is in Murree right now, but I am not criticizing him,'' he told them, referring to the resort in the Himalayan foothills where the Pakistani elite spend hot summer months. ''We have political differences but this is the time to put them aside.''
That has not been the case. The leader of one of the government's coalition partners, Altaf Hussain, who runs the Muttahida Qaumi Movement from London, suggested that ''patriotic generals'' should step in to lead the country in such a crisis, a reminder that he could cause the government to collapse if he chose to pull out of the coalition.
One of the most angry accusations has come from Mir Zafarullah Khan Jamali, a former prime minister whose constituency in the province of Baluchistan has been almost totally inundated.
Mr. Jamali criticized members of the government, accusing them of intentionally redirecting floodwaters through Baluchistan and inundating the homes and farmlands of one million people in the country's poorest province.
Much of Baluchistan is already embroiled in a separatist revolt, and Mr. Jamali warned that the latest careless treatment by the government would only worsen the popular mood. ''A Baluch does not forget what happens to him,'' he said.
Beneath the political sparring, intense and sometimes lethal tussles for power have erupted, both locally and nationally.
Political power struggles in the country's sprawling port city of Karachi have degenerated into an ethnic turf war between two parties in the governing coalition, the Muttahida Qaumi Movement, whose support base is drawn from Urdu-speaking immigrants, and the Awami National Party, whose base is mostly Pashtun. Targeted killings left 165 dead people in August, including some senior political figures.
Now tens of thousands of people displaced by the floods, most of them ethnic Sindhis, are arriving in Karachi, adding a volatile new element to the political dynamic there. While Sindhi nationalists are welcoming them, opponents, like M.Q.M. members, warn that they will create more violence.
Then there is the continuing threat from the Taliban and other militant groups, which has not subsided. They will look for every opportunity to continue their campaign of violence and to stir sectarian strife, officials warned. Last week alone, bomb attacks against Shiite religious processions in Punjab and Baluchistan killed more than 90 people and wounded more than 300.
Along the length of the flood region through Punjab and Sindh Provinces, displaced people said they expected little help would filter down to those who deserve it. ''The influential ones are getting all the money and the poor will get nothing,'' said Wazir Ali, 23, whose family was camping beside a road outside the town of Sukkur in Sindh.
A farm laborer, Qaim Din, 50, said he feared going back to his village when the floods receded because the family would have nothing to eat. ''We will die of hunger,'' he said. ''We are very poor.''
He was not optimistic about government promises of assistance. ''We hope, but we will be sure of it only when we get it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Kalam, in the Swat Valley, people awaited relocation by helicopter with the help of American Marines and Pakistani soldiers. (A1)
Zahel, a village east of Peshawar, Pakistan, on Wednesday. Long after floodwaters subside, Pakistanis will face a lack of housing, food shortages and price spikes, among other hardships. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 President Asif Ali Zardari, in white cap, met with flood survivors Aug. 19 at a camp in Jampur, Pakistan, in Punjab Province. After early criticism, officials are crisscrossing flood-hit regions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FAROOQ NAEEM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES ) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); 2010 PAKISTAN FLOODS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMIES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); RIOTS (68%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (73%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



165 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Go to Work on a Formidable Task

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
In a year of unremitting labor, Democrats now turn toward the final phase of their most arduous task of all.
That task is framing an election-year message on the economy when the economy, under their leadership, is weak.
Six months ago, President Obama and his party hoped that message could be: weak, but clearly improving - thanks to Democratic action on an economic stimulus, health care and financial regulation. But recent economic data have taken that off the table. 
In a speech in Cleveland this week, Mr. Obama will shift the debate toward additional ideas for stimulating economic growth and hiring. He lacks the capacity to spur legislation that would lift the economy by Election Day; significant new victories in Congress are highly improbable before then, and economic dividends would not come fast enough to persuade swing voters anyway.
Instead, the president can try to draw partisan and ideological lines to benefit embattled Democratic candidates.
Republican strategists already wield a potent array of political weapons against the party in power: blue-collar workers anxious over 9.6 percent unemployment; business leaders vexed over new regulations; affluent voters fearful of tax increases; party activists irate over the ambitious and expensive Democratic policy agenda.
What their Democratic counterparts seek are ways of blunting and neutralizing those weapons. And vigorous attacks on the records and personal foibles of Republican challengers can do only part of the job.
The sorts of business-friendly tax cuts that Mr. Obama plans to promote this week, like a permanent extension of the research and development tax credit, are designed to show that Democrats have plans to address sluggish growth that do not involve huge new spending programs. They also aim to undercut Republican arguments that Democrats are hostile to entrepreneurs.
Perhaps most significant, they are intended to complement the Democrats' case in the most volatile economic debate this fall: how to handle the expiring Bush tax cuts.
Throughout Mr. Obama's presidency, Democrats have cast their agenda as an attempt to rebalance economic benefits that had skewed badly during the previous decade. Instead of patients, students, motorists and average investors, they have argued, Bush-era Republicans sided with health insurance companies, banks, oil companies and Wall Street speculators.
The tax debate completes that tableau of contrasting allegiances. Mr. Obama, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, all favor extending the Bush tax cuts, but only for families earning less than $250,000 per year, while Republican leaders insist that they be extended for the highest earners, too.
The contrast is critical, Democratic campaign strategists say, to their hopes of energizing core partisans at a time when polls show vastly greater Republican enthusiasm about the election.
But for several reasons, the calculus is not a simple one.
First, advocating higher taxes for the wealthy threatens recent progress by Democrats in winning more votes and campaign donations among higher-income Americans, especially on the coasts.
Second, the economic arguments for allowing the top rates to return to Clinton-era levels have weakened amid rising anxiety about potential impediments to a recovery.
And finally, Democratic candidates in more conservative states fear that middle-class swing voters might hear calls for higher taxes on the rich as ultimately dangerous to their own bank accounts. Democratic Senate hopefuls in Indiana, Kentucky and Missouri, for example, have called for extending the Bush tax cuts across the board.
The White House hopes to mitigate each of those vulnerabilities with the proposals Mr. Obama will roll out this week, as well as a pending bill in the Senate designed to fuel lending to small businesses.
But Mr. Obama's initiative is just part of the campaign endgame on the economy. As Congress prepares to return next week, Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Reid will, over the next few days, begin reading the reactions of members to their campaign forays at home during the summer recess.
Those reactions could yet scramble the expectations of House and Senate leaders, which currently assume that the two parties will fight over taxes before Election Day and compromise in a lame-duck session afterward.
Their only certainty at the traditional Labor Day marker of the campaign's homestretch: preserving Democratic majorities through these economic travails, if possible at all, will be very hard work.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TAX INCREASES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); INSURANCE (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (67%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



166 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON PAR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Golfers Welcome President Obama's Participation

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
President Obama's interest in golf has obviously gone to intense from casual. Five rounds in 10 family vacation days? That could pass as a clinical diagnosis for the bite of the golf bug. Every serious golfer recognizes the signs.
The pros of the PGA Tour are not surprised. 
''If you think about what it must be like to be president, I bet he can't wait to get to the golf course to clear his head,'' said Davis Love III, a 25-year veteran of the PGA Tour. ''He needs the release. And then it gets addictive.''
Stewart Cink, the 2009 British Open champion, added: ''The president probably wants to get outdoors and away from the phones. I heard he played basketball, but you can't compare some pickup basketball games with three or four hours on a relaxing golf course.''
Cink paused for a moment.
''Well, I hope it's relaxing,'' he said.
The English golfer Paul Casey, ranked eighth in the world, called the sport ''a great leveler, even for a world leader.''
But Casey also speculated with a grin: ''If he's playing that much, he must be going through all the emotions - wanting to laugh and wanting to cry.''
Adam Scott of Australia had a similar thought. ''I hope golf's many frustrations don't find their way into the Oval Office,'' Scott said with a chuckle. ''But I well assume a president has the qualities to separate the two.''
Even the world's top-ranked golfer, Tiger Woods, weighed in briefly on the president's relatively newfound passion.
''I think it's great,'' Woods said.
When the subject was what advice he would give Obama, Woods replied: ''Stay in balance.'' Asked if that was a political statement or one about golf, Woods smiled and walked away.
The majority of PGA Tour players are famously conservative when it comes to their politics, but there was little discussion of Obama's policies or decision making. Although Casey, who spends much of his time in Scottsdale, Ariz., did wonder if Obama's game might be a boost for the American economy.
''If he's losing lots and lots of golf balls, then he'll have to buy a lot of new ones, and maybe that will spur growth,'' Casey said. ''And people will find his lost golf balls and sell those as collector's items. More growth, right?''
More than a dozen presidents have been golfers, with the Bush family's sizable contribution to the game going back decades. What's interesting about golf during the Obama presidency is how rapidly the game has ascended into a place of extracurricular prominence, becoming, it seems, the president's primary avocation.
The greater golf community beyond the PGA Tour has taken notice. It realizes he must be struggling to get better, and it is rushing to welcome him.
''The president has what every golfer must have,'' Dr. Joe Parent, author of the best-selling book ''Zen Golf,'' said.
Aware of the title of Obama's best-selling book, Parent continued: ''He has the audacity of hope.''
Jim Remy, the president of the P.G.A. of America, witnessed Obama in action when he recently played a couple of groups in front of the president at an Andrews Air Force Base course.
''He's probably a little better player than people give him credit for,'' Remy said. ''He seemed happy. His foursome looked like any other four guys playing a little match and getting on each other.''
If that's the case, the golf tribe, from professionals on down, seems to be welcoming.
''I think it's terrific that he's playing, I think everybody does,'' said Ricky Barnes, a former United States Amateur champion, who is ranked 36th on the PGA Tour money list. ''It says a lot for golf. It's a special game. It makes you rely on yourself and it makes you find ways to get out of difficult situations. When people talk about golf and life lessons learned, those things are very real.''
But so is the backlash Obama has faced for spending leisure hours on the golf course. Some find it a trivial activity for a sitting president in challenging times. Then there is the stigma golf carries as an old-money game of privilege.
''Golf is not an elitist sport, even though we golfers are told that all the time,'' Casey said. ''Aren't there far more public golf course players than country club players?''
In fact, 75 percent of all rounds in America are played on public courses.
''We fight the elitist label all the time because people like to say we're all products of a country club environment,'' Love said. ''Well, I came up from the cart barn part of the country club. My father worked at the club. He was the pro, and it was hard work.
''In a lot of ways, I think President Obama could help with the perception of golf. We know that kids all over the nation now think they can be president someday because of him. I hope they look at him playing golf and say, 'Hey, I can play that game, too.' ''
To a man, the PGA Tour pros said they would be happy to play golf with the president. Cink joked that, ''maybe I could get him out on East Lake,'' referring to the historic private club near Atlanta, where Cink is a member.
As if a president would have trouble getting a tee time anywhere.
Other players said they looked forward to when Obama was a more seasoned and accomplished player.
''When you start getting serious about golf, there's always that early stage where you improve fairly rapidly,'' Love said. ''And then you hit the next stage, and it gets harder and harder to get better, not easier. At that point, that's when we will know he's really a golfer like the rest of us.
''And yes, Mr. President, we're stuck trying to get better, too. We don't have this game figured out, either.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama played golf on vacation at Martha's Vineyard last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); ATHLETES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); FAMILY TRAVEL (89%); POLITICS (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); BASKETBALL (73%); RANKINGS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIGER WOODS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



167 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Retiring Fed Official Urges More Bank Action If Recovery Stumbles

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, who retired last week after 40 years at the central bank, says that the economy is in ''a slow slog out of a very deep hole,'' and that the Fed should consider additional stimulus unless the recovery shows signs of ''decent progress.''
The departure of the official, Donald L. Kohn, who as the Fed's No. 2 official played a pivotal role in its handling of the financial crisis, is something of an end of an era. A staff economist who worked his way up through the ranks, Mr. Kohn was one of the last direct links to Paul A. Volcker and Alan Greenspan, the chairmen who defined the modern Fed. 
''Each day, he brought to the role of public servant enthusiasm, dedication, intelligence and a deep sense of purpose,'' said Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman since 2006, who had recommended that President George W. Bush nominate Mr. Kohn to be his top deputy.
In a telephone interview from Seattle, where he was vacationing before starting work as a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, Mr. Kohn, 67, said he believed the Fed should take additional measures -- like resuming purchases of government securities to keep long-term interest rates low -- if the recovery continued to slow.
''To not trigger something, I would want to see that there was the prospect of progress in the forecast toward achieving both much higher levels of employment and, eventually, higher inflation, closer to my 2 percent target,'' he said.
Mr. Kohn said it was imperative that inflation expectations remained well anchored. ''If those expectations begin to drift down, we could get into a situation where real interest rates start to rise,'' he said.
If the Fed resumes purchases of Treasury securities, it need not specify a limit, as it did the last time, he said.
''To have a substantial effect, people would have to anticipate substantial purchases,'' Mr. Kohn said. ''Does the Federal Reserve need to announce it's buying $1 trillion? Not necessarily. If the Fed said, 'We're buying a smaller amount now, but we'll continue to watch the situation and if it warrants, we'll buy more,' that sort of thing would give the public and the markets a sense that someone was out there, ready to buy if the economic situation weakened further or didn't improve.''
Mr. Kohn also distinguished the latest recession from previous ones. ''It didn't begin with the Fed slamming the brakes on the economy,'' he said. ''It began when the economy collapsed under the weight of the housing bubble -- and then you had the panic over losses that resulted from the bubble's collapse.''
He added: ''It's going to be a slower recovery. But acceptance of that reality is not a reason for the central bank not to do everything it can to help that recovery along.''
A Philadelphia native and graduate of the College of Wooster in Ohio, Mr. Kohn joined the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City in 1970, shortly before receiving his Ph.D. from the University of Michigan. He transferred to the Fed's headquarters in 1975 and began an ascent through its research divisions, serving as director of monetary affairs from 1987 to 2001.
Mr. Bush named him to a 14-year term on the board of governors -- a rare promotion from within the Fed -- in 2002. Mr. Kohn announced in February that he would retire when his separate, four-year term as vice chairman expired on June 23, but later agreed to remain on the board until Sept. 1, at Mr. Bernanke's request.
While Mr. Kohn and Mr. Bernanke became close, they have not always been in lockstep. When both were governors under Mr. Greenspan, Mr. Kohn opposed Mr. Bernanke's view that the Fed should make monetary policy more transparent by announcing an explicit inflation target.
Mr. Kohn, along with Timothy F. Geithner, then president of the New York Fed and now Treasury secretary, defended Mr. Greenspan's approach, which relied more on discretion than on well-articulated rules.
The outcome was a compromise. As chairman, Mr. Bernanke named Mr. Kohn to lead a subcommittee on Fed communications, and the Federal Open Market Committee now publishes inflation forecasts every quarter. As a result, the Fed implicitly has an inflation target of 1.7 to 2 percent, though it is not officially called that.
Along with Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Geithner, Mr. Kohn headed the Fed's response to the 2008 market turmoil, in which the Fed came under criticism for arranging the sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase, for not preventing the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and for bailing out the American International Group.
Mr. Kohn said of the crisis, ''There isn't any decision that we made that I would undo,'' but added, ''I regret that we, the U.S. government, didn't have the tools to deal with Bear Stearns, Lehman, A.I.G., in a more stabilizing way that produced less moral hazard,'' referring to the idea that a company may behave more recklessly in the future if it believes it will not have to bear the full consequences of its actions.
Like Mr. Bernanke, Mr. Kohn said he failed to recognize the fragility that resulted from excessive risk-taking and reliance on short-term, wholesale financing markets.
''I don't think I appreciated the lack of diversification, the amount of leverage, the amount of maturity transformation that made the system so vulnerable to a decline in housing prices,'' he said. ''Everybody -- but certainly the regulators and the markets -- became complacent about the housing market and whether housing prices could ever decline across a broad front.''
Mr. Kohn urged the two political parties to agree to rein in the long-term growth of public debt. ''If one could get the Democrats and Republicans to each agree to do things that they don't like to do, in the interest of putting at least a piece of the budget on a more sustainable track, that would be a powerful signal,'' he said.
Mr. Kohn said that while leaving the Fed was a big adjustment, ''I also know that after 40 years, it's time to move on, to do other things, to dial back the intensity a little bit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donald Kohn, left, and Ben Bernanke ahead of a meeting near Jackson Hole, Wyo., on Aug. 27, before Mr. Kohn left the Fed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); INTEREST RATES (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



168 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: 1938 In 2010

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Here's the situation: The U.S. economy has been crippled by a financial crisis. The president's policies have limited the damage, but they were too cautious, and unemployment remains disastrously high. More action is clearly needed. Yet the public has soured on government activism, and seems poised to deal Democrats a severe defeat in the midterm elections.
The president in question is Franklin Delano Roosevelt; the year is 1938. Within a few years, of course, the Great Depression was over. But it's both instructive and discouraging to look at the state of America circa 1938 -- instructive because the nature of the recovery that followed refutes the arguments dominating today's public debate, discouraging because it's hard to see anything like the miracle of the 1940s happening again. 
Now, we weren't supposed to find ourselves replaying the late 1930s. President Obama's economists promised not to repeat the mistakes of 1937, when F.D.R. pulled back fiscal stimulus too soon. But by making his program too small and too short-lived, Mr. Obama did just that: the stimulus raised growth while it lasted, but it made only a small dent in unemployment -- and now it's fading out.
And just as some of us feared, the inadequacy of the administration's initial economic plan has landed it -- and the nation -- in a political trap. More stimulus is desperately needed, but in the public's eyes the failure of the initial program to deliver a convincing recovery has discredited government action to create jobs.
In short, welcome to 1938.
The story of 1937, of F.D.R.'s disastrous decision to heed those who said that it was time to slash the deficit, is well known. What's less well known is the extent to which the public drew the wrong conclusions from the recession that followed: far from calling for a resumption of New Deal programs, voters lost faith in fiscal expansion.
Consider Gallup polling from March 1938. Asked whether government spending should be increased to fight the slump, 63 percent of those polled said no. Asked whether it would be better to increase spending or to cut business taxes, only 15 percent favored spending; 63 percent favored tax cuts. And the 1938 election was a disaster for the Democrats, who lost 70 seats in the House and seven in the Senate.
Then came the war.
From an economic point of view World War II was, above all, a burst of deficit-financed government spending, on a scale that would never have been approved otherwise. Over the course of the war the federal government borrowed an amount equal to roughly twice the value of G.D.P. in 1940 -- the equivalent of roughly $30 trillion today.
Had anyone proposed spending even a fraction that much before the war, people would have said the same things they're saying today. They would have warned about crushing debt and runaway inflation. They would also have said, rightly, that the Depression was in large part caused by excess debt -- and then have declared that it was impossible to fix this problem by issuing even more debt.
But guess what? Deficit spending created an economic boom -- and the boom laid the foundation for long-run prosperity. Overall debt in the economy -- public plus private -- actually fell as a percentage of G.D.P., thanks to economic growth and, yes, some inflation, which reduced the real value of outstanding debts. And after the war, thanks to the improved financial position of the private sector, the economy was able to thrive without continuing deficits.
The economic moral is clear: when the economy is deeply depressed, the usual rules don't apply. Austerity is self-defeating: when everyone tries to pay down debt at the same time, the result is depression and deflation, and debt problems grow even worse. And conversely, it is possible -- indeed, necessary -- for the nation as a whole to spend its way out of debt: a temporary surge of deficit spending, on a sufficient scale, can cure problems brought on by past excesses.
But the story of 1938 also shows how hard it is to apply these insights. Even under F.D.R., there was never the political will to do what was needed to end the Great Depression; its eventual resolution came essentially by accident.
I had hoped that we would do better this time. But it turns out that politicians and economists alike have spent decades unlearning the lessons of the 1930s, and are determined to repeat all the old mistakes. And it's slightly sickening to realize that the big winners in the midterm elections are likely to be the very people who first got us into this mess, then did everything in their power to block action to get us out.
But always remember: this slump can be cured. All it will take is a little bit of intellectual clarity, and a lot of political will. Here's hoping we find those virtues in the not too distant future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); JOB CREATION (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); TAX LAW (64%); APPROVALS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



169 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Paranoid About Paranoia

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
Last Wednesday, a man named James Lee entered the headquarters of the Discovery Channel with explosives strapped to his body, took three hostages at gunpoint, and waited for his demands to be met.
A foe of population growth, Lee had apparently decided that shows like ''Kate Plus Eight'' and ''19 Kids and Counting'' were pushing the planet toward destruction. ''All programs on Discovery Health-TLC must stop encouraging the birth of any more parasitic human infants,'' he decreed, before moving on to demand solutions for ''global warming, automotive pollution, international trade ... and the whole blasted human economy.''
By the end of the day, the hostages were safe, Lee had been killed by police, and TLC's fall lineup was preserved. But the debate about the hostage-taker's politics was just beginning. 
Conservatives and libertarians dubbed Lee a ''liberal eco-terrorist'' inspired by a ''green climate of hate.'' They pointed out that he traced his political ''awakening'' to Al Gore's apocalyptic rhetoric. They cited an F.B.I. statement calling eco-vigilantes America's ''No. 1 domestic terrorism threat.''
This was all a little ridiculous. But of course it was really an attempt to turn the tables on liberals, who have spent the last two years linking conservative rhetoric to hate crimes and antigovernment maniacs. (It's a hard habit to break: the liberal site ThinkProgress.org quickly suggested that James Lee was actually a right-wing extremist, because his hostility to ''parasitic human infants'' extended to the children of illegal immigrants.)
To some extent, partisans persist in these arguments -- ''your side encourages extremists!''; ''no, your side encourages extremists!'' -- because America really is rife with wild and crazy sentiments. The belief that Barack Obama is secretly a Muslim (apparently held by nearly 20 percent of the country) gets the headlines. But as the George Mason law professor Ilya Somin has noted, national opinion polls reveal support for numerous far-out or noxious-seeming notions.
There's the 32 percent of Democrats who blame ''the Jews'' for the financial crisis. There's the 25 percent of African-Americans who believe the AIDS virus was created in a government lab. There's support for state secession, which may have been higher among liberals in the Bush era than among Republicans in the age of Obama. And there's the theory that the Bush White House knew about 9/11 in advance, which a third of Democrats endorsed as recently as 2007.
So are we a nation of potential James Lees, teetering on the brink of paranoid violence? Not necessarily. As the libertarian writer Julian Sanchez has pointed out, it's worth taking all these polling responses with a substantial grain of salt. For all but the hardest-core conspiracy theorizers, they may express what Sanchez calls ''symbolic beliefs.'' These are ''propositions you profess publicly'' but would never follow through on, because they're adopted as a kind of political and cultural statement rather than out of deep conviction.
Consider the apparently widespread notion that George W. Bush knew about 9/11 in advance. If true, it would suggest that Bush was not merely a bad man or a bad president, but an evil genius on a shocking scale. But as Sanchez notes, ''you did not really see a lot of behavior consistent with millions upon millions of people being seriously convinced that their president was a treasonous mass murderer.'' Nobody planned an insurrection; few people fled to Canada. Instead, liberals organized for Democratic candidates, as though Bush were an ordinary opponent rather than a stone-cold killer.
The same is true of conservative conspiracy theorists today. Tuning in to Glenn Beck or joining your local Tea Party seems like a woefully insufficient response to the possibility that Barack Obama is a Manchurian candidate groomed from birth to undermine democracy and impose Shariah law. But if we understand those paranoias to be symbolic beliefs, rather than real convictions -- an attention-grabbing way of saying, ''I consider Obama phony, dishonest and un-American'' -- then conservative behavior makes a lot more sense.
Such beliefs can still be dangerous. The line between what's symbolic and what's real isn't always clear, and a determined demagogue can exploit symbolic beliefs as well as real ones.
But obsessing about the paranoia of the masses is often a way for American elites to gloss over their own, entirely nonsymbolic failures. In the Bush era attacking the conspiracy theories of the ''angry left'' made it easier for conservatives to avert their eyes from the disaster the Iraq war had become. Today, establishment liberals would much rather fret about the insanity of the Republican base than reckon with the unpopularity of Barack Obama's domestic program.
Some fretting is justified. (Just ask the Discovery Channel.) But over all, Americans still have more to fear from the folly of establishments than from the paranoia such follies summon up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); ECOTERRORISM (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); POLITICS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); VIRUSES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); LIBERAL MEDIA (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%); AIDS & HIV (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%)

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (58%)

PERSON: AL GORE (56%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



170 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: For G.O.P., Fervor of Tea Party Holds Promise, and Problems

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
Christine O'Donnell, running in Delaware to be the Republican nominee for the Senate seat once held by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., is a perennial candidate with a history of financial problems, including unpaid taxes and a home in foreclosure. Representative Michael N. Castle, her opponent in the primary, is a veteran congressman and former governor who has won statewide elections more than 10 times.
But Ms. O'Donnell has the backing of the Tea Party, and suddenly Delaware has become the latest Republican civil war battlefield. National Tea Party groups are pouring money into Ms. O'Donnell's campaign, while establishment Republicans are attacking her with more ferocity than they have shown toward the Democrat in the race, worried that Ms. O'Donnell is the bigger threat to the party's winning the seat in November.
The battle in Delaware is just the latest reminder that as much as the Tea Party fervor is expected to help Republicans in November, it may also create problems for them -- and opportunities for the Democrats. 
So far this election season, the Tea Party has brought a huge amount of unexpected energy into the campaign, and it could drive sufficient Republican turnout to become a major and perhaps decisive factor in many races. But the movement has also forced Republicans to spend precious time and money on primary races they should have won easily and has produced some inexperienced candidates who have stumbled in the early going.
In some House races, Republicans have all but given up hope of winning after local Tea Party groups helped conservative candidates win primaries in districts that historically prefer moderates. And in some districts, Tea Party candidates are mounting third-party challenges that could allow the Democrats to maintain or even win some seats.
''When we talk about what kind of an impact the Tea Party is going to have on the midterms, what I'm watching are these seats where the Tea Party has nominated candidates over more viable Republican candidates -- that's my measuring stick,'' said Jennifer Duffy, who watches Senate races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. ''It could be the difference between getting the majority or not.''
Of the 18 Senate races that The New York Times considers competitive, there are 11 where the Tea Party stands to be a significant factor. While it is harder to predict the Tea Party's influence in the House races, given the diffuse nature of thousands of local groups across the country, there are at least 48 out of 104 competitive seats where it could have a major impact.
In many places, the impact will be from Tea Party groups -- local, national or both -- that are working to mobilize voters. In others, however, the Tea Party is complicating what should have been easy Republican primary victories.
In the Eighth Congressional District in Arizona, for instance, a seat held comfortably by Republicans until 2006, Democrats had worried that their incumbent, Representative Gabrielle Giffords, would lose. They rejoiced when the Tea Party candidate, Jesse Kelly, beat Jonathan Paton, who had been backed by Republicans in Washington.
In the 10th Congressional District in Illinois, the Tea Party may have created a rare opportunity for the Democrats to pick up a seat, helping Robert Dold win against a more moderate Republican in the primary. The seat is now held by Mark Kirk, a moderate Republican who is running for the Senate seat vacated by President Obama. Democrats believe they can portray Mr. Dold as too conservative for the district.
With the economy still working against Democrats, they say they are hoping to benefit from concerns about Tea Party extremism.
Allen West, for example, the Republican nominee in Florida's 22nd Congressional District, has become a Tea Party sensation. He has raised more money than any other House challenger -- and his opponent -- collecting donations from people across the country who have followed him on YouTube as he thunders against the ''tyranny'' of the federal government.
But to Democrats, he is an opposition researcher's dream, captured on video rallying his audiences to ''get your musket, fix your bayonet,'' questioning whether Mr. Obama is a citizen and urging his supporters to make his opponent ''scared to come out of his house.''
Democrats said they were trying to make the same case against Tea Party candidates who are the Republican nominees in Senate races: Rand Paul in Kentucky, Sharron Angle in Nevada, Ken Buck in Colorado and Ron Johnson in Wisconsin. (The candidates the Tea Party helped nominate in Utah, Mike Lee, and Alaska, Joe Miller, are considered all but certain to win -- even in a year when uncertainty is the rule.)
The Democrats are playing up the candidates' support for things that are standard Tea Party positions, but unpopular among most Americans: getting rid of the Departments of Energy, Commerce and Education; phasing out Social Security and Medicare; and instituting a 23 percent national sales tax to replace the income tax.
The arguments seem to be gaining the most traction in Kentucky and Nevada, where the nominations of Tea Party candidates have helped keep Democrats in the running -- particularly Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, who is considered among the most vulnerable incumbents. In Kentucky, the Democrat, Jack Conway, gained the support of the state's police union last month after raising concerns about Mr. Paul's opposition to federal antidrug efforts, a position unpopular among rural voters whose communities have been ravaged by methamphetamine.
All of those Senate races are close. And Republicans and, increasingly, independent analysts believe that the Tea Party candidates can prevail.
Delaware is a different story. Republicans, though they backed Ms. O'Donnell when she ran against Mr. Biden for the Senate, say she is unelectable, and in recent days they have attacked her for ''repeatedly lying to voters'' and ''manipulating her own political history.'' They said they had considered Mr. Castle a shoo-in until Mr. Miller defeated Senator Lisa Murkowski in the Republican primary in Alaska.
The Tea Party Express, a national group that helped secure Mr. Miller the nomination and helped Senator Scott Brown win in Massachusetts, then said it would spend $250,000 on television and radio advertisements for Ms. O'Donnell in advance of the primary Sept. 14.
Other trouble spots for Republicans are Tea Party-backed candidates mounting third-party challenges in several close House races. These include the Fifth and Second Congressional Districts in Virginia, where Republicans had controlled the seats until the last couple of years and had hopes of taking them back.
In Florida's 12th Congressional District, where the seat is being vacated by a Republican, independent handicappers say that Randy Wilkinson, who registered to run on an official Tea Party line, could take a sizable chunk of voters from the Republican, handing the election to the Democrat, Lori Edwards.
And in New York's 23rd Congressional District, Tea Party groups are backing Doug Hoffman, who created trouble for Republicans in a special election last year by mounting a challenge to the moderate Republican nominee, ultimately pushing her to quit the race. She threw her support to the Democrat, Bill Owens, and he won the district despite Republicans having controlled it for 150 years.
This year, Mr. Hoffman has said that if he does not win the Sept. 14 primary against Matt Doheny, who has the support of establishment Republicans, he will run as a third-party candidate again. And many Tea Party activists are supporting his bid even though they understand that this would probably result in the seat's remaining in Democratic hands.
''Sometimes being principled doesn't always get you what you want,'' said Jennifer Bernstone, an activist who supported Mr. Hoffman last year and does again. ''That's part of being principled.''
But analysts say third-party candidates will affect 10 House races, at best, in a year when 100 are competitive. And Republican strategists say it is wishful thinking on the Democrats' part to hope that they can combat Tea Party enthusiasm with concerns about Tea Party extremism.
''Enthusiasm in an off year is absolutely critical,'' said Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster. ''I'm not disagreeing that there are places where the nontraditional Republican nominee may face a greater challenge than would a traditional Republican nominee, but I do not agree that ergo the Democrat is going to win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rand Paul of Kentucky, top, and Ken Buck of Colorado are Tea Party candidates who won their Republican primaries for Senate. Democrats are trying to portray their positions as extreme. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED REINKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ERIC BELLAMY/DAILY TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); GOVERNORS (72%); FORECLOSURE (72%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (73%); RAND PAUL (58%); MICHAEL N CASTLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



171 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
THAI OPPOSITION
Retreats Into Silence
In Udon Thani, the base of much of Thailand's antigovernment opposition, the Thai government appears to have made little headway in calming or winning over its opponents. Scores of people are in hiding, and critics of the government have retreated into silence. PAGE A4
OPTIMISM ON MIDEAST TALKS 
Palestinian and Israeli leaders expressed satisfaction and hope in their first public utterances after the opening round of Middle East peace talks in Washington last week. PAGE A8
LASHING OVER PHOTO
A mix-up over a photograph led to a sentence of 99 lashes for a woman the Iranian government had sentenced to death by stoning. The original sentence, which was revoked, caused an international outcry. PAGE A4
70 Die in Congo Accident A8
National
KAYAKERS WIN BATTLE
To Open Falls For a Plunge
For decades, kayakers and other whitewater boaters were prohibited by park safety rules from paddling over the crest of an 18-foot waterfall in Ohiopyle, Pa., in southwestern Pennsylvania. So daredevil paddlers simply slipped over Ohiopyle Falls at night to avoid being seen. Now the part is holding a three-week trial that will allow boaters to take the plunge, provided they follow safety guidelines. PAGE A12
DEMOCRATS' HARD TASK
In a year of unremitting labor, Democrats now turn toward the final phase of their most arduous task of all: framing an election-year message on the economy when the economy, under their leadership, is weak. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A11
New York
UNDER BLOOMBERG,
A Transformed Broadway
Broadway is Manhattan's most famous thoroughfare, known around the world for its theater marquees and giant Macy's. But under the Bloomberg administration, Broadway has been transformed, from a grand avenue that ferried automobiles on a scenic route through Midtown to a narrow passageway with barely more room for cars than a sleepy street in Greenwich Village. PAGE A13
Business
FORMER H.P. CHIEF
May Move to Oracle
Mark V. Hurd, who was forced to resign as Hewlett-Packard's top executive last month after an investigation into a sexual harassment charge found that he had fudged his expenses, is in talks with Oracle about a top executive position there, according a person briefed on the matter. PAGE B1
BOX OFFICE FLOP? NOT SO FAST.
Despite all the attention on opening weekends, releases can quietly chug away in theaters and end up in the black. A movie's financial obituary can rarely be written after a single weekend -- a practice that has grown more prevalent as a weakening DVD market has reignited an obsession with box office statistics. PAGE B1
NEWS CLIP IS NOW A HIT SONG
In one of the stranger twists in recent pop-music history, a musical remake of a local news clip -- about an intruder who climbed into a woman's bed and tried to assault her -- transcended YouTube fame and reached the Billboard Hot 100 chart in August. PAGE B1
EUROPE CONTINUED TO LEND
Even as Europe's sovereign debt crisis intensified early this year, banks continued to load up on debt from Greece and other countries with the most acute fiscal problems, according to a report. PAGE B3
Bits: I.B.M.'s Storage Approach B5
Sports
IN THE HEAT OF CAMP,
The Hunger of Faith
The physical demands of an N.F.L. training camp, which entail two practices on some days, can tax even the best-hydrated and most well-fed players. Yet Husain Abdullah of the Minnesota Vikings, and his brother Hamza, a defensive back for the Arizona Cardinals, are committed to fasting throughout Ramadan, which ends at sundown Thursday -- the night the Vikings open the season in New Orleans. PAGE D1
THE HOKIES' STEADY ASCENT
The Virginia Tech football team's success has become a rite of autumn in Blacksburg, Va. The Hokies have reached a bowl game each year since 1993, and only Ohio State and Florida have more wins since 1995. The program's gradual rise was built on stability, stubbornness and special teams, and it was an early blueprint for the Boise States of college football to follow. PAGE D1
Arts
A BRONX FILM SCHOOL TALE
Founded in 2000, the nonprofit, not-for-credit Ghetto Film School aims to broaden the pool of filmmaking talent and subject matter feeding the entertainment industry. The name, of course, is meant to play with a stereotype. But the program itself is serious, and has won the support of Hollywood and the city government. PAGE C1
RISKS, REWARDS AND BOMBS
Hollywood's summer may have been tepid -- movie theater attendance was the lowest in over a decade -- but the big-budget, big-risk stretch delivered an unusually robust array of tea leaves for studios to read as they make decisions for the seasons ahead. PAGE C1
CINDERELLA GOES WICKED
In her one-woman ''Cinderella'' at the Issue Project Room in Gowanus, Brooklyn, the performer-writer Ann Liv Young stars as an outspoken and trashy Southerner called Sherry and converses with members of the audience -- sometimes in a quarrelsome way. PAGE C1
Obituaries
PAUL CONRAD, 86
His rapier editorial cartoons appeared in The Los Angeles Times, The Denver Post and other papers. He slashed presidents, skewered pomposity and exposed what he saw as deception and injustice for six decades, and he won three Pulitzer Prizes. PAGE A20
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A19
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOATING & RAFTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SENTENCING (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (70%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (70%); FILM (68%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (66%); MOVIE REVENUES (64%); RESIGNATIONS (61%); POP & ROCK (60%); MUSIC (60%); HISTORY (50%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); THAILAND (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



172 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data this week will include the Federal Reserve beige book and consumer credit for July (Wednesday); the trade deficit for July (Thursday); and wholesale trade inventories for July (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings will include Navistar, Smithfield Foods and Talbots (Wednesday).
A HOLIDAY WEEK Markets, banks, government offices and most businesses will be closed on Monday in observance of Labor Day.
IN THE UNITED STATES The chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mary L. Schapiro, left, will speak at the Economic Club of New York. The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission will conduct a public meeting in Bakersfield, Calif. (Tuesday) and one in Las Vegas (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (87%); US LABOR DAY (87%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (85%)

COMPANY: SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: SFD (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (58%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (58%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (58%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



173 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WIGHT, RICHARD JAMES

 BODY:
WIGHT--Richard James. September 4, aged 61. Beloved husband of Jennifer Sutherland, devoted father of Stewart Wight (Katherine), Falls Church, Va; Russell Wight, New York; and Christine Wight, Atlanta. Doting grandfather of Elena Wight. Born in San Diego and raised in Paradise, CA., he received an A.B. from UC Berkeley, M.Sc. from the London School of Economics, and J.D. from Columbia. For 32 years he worked as an associate and partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley, and McCloy, in New York, training two generations of banking attorneys in the intricacies of loan documentation. In 2008 he taught a course in American legal principles at Brest State University in Belarus. His book The LSTA's Complete Credit Agreement Guide received a Burton Award for legal writing. Visitation at Robert Gray Funeral Home, 49 Jordan St., Skaneateles, NY, September 6, 1-3pm. Funeral at St. James Episcopal Church, 96 E. Genesee St., Skaneateles, September 7, 2pm. In lieu of flowers, donations to Mesothelioma Applied Research Foundation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (80%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); LUNG CANCER (50%)

COMPANY: MILBANK TWEED HADLEY & MCCLOY LLP (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%); BELARUS (72%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010



174 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 912 words

PERSON: Dr. Tsung-yi Lin 

HEADLINE: Tsung-yi Lin, 89, Psychiatrist With Global Approach, Dies

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
He was a non-Western doctor who helped give a Eurocentric, introspective field of medicine a global presence that it sorely lacked. He all but built the mental health system from the ground up in his native Taiwan, later helping governments in developing nations to do the same.
And he pushed for research that would, for the first time, rigorously document the prevalence of mental disorders worldwide, demonstrating that people from far-flung lands had many emotional struggles in common, whatever their cultural or economic differences. 
Dr. Tsung-yi Lin, a psychiatrist who rose to become the director of mental health at the World Health Organization, died on July 20 at 89, his daughter Dr. Elizabeth Lin said, adding that the family had not made the death public until last week.
For decades, Dr. Lin was one of the world's most persuasive and effective advocates for psychiatry as a centerpiece of public health, on par with infectious diseases and chronic medical conditions.
''It all makes sense today, but in the 1960s and 1970s the whole idea of doing epidemiology in psychiatry was outre, out there; it just didn't seem logical to people,'' said Dr. Arthur Kleinman, a psychiatrist and medical anthropologist at Harvard. Dr. Lin changed that.
''He saw that psychiatry could not develop on a global stage without a presence in public health, and he was one of the early leaders who really framed that presence,'' Dr. Kleinman added.
Dr. Lin was not long out of medical training when, in 1953, he published a scientific survey of mental disorders in Taiwan, the first of its kind. Later, at the W.H.O., he began a far more extensive effort, the International Pilot Study of Schizophrenia, an inventory of that mental disorder in developing as well as Western countries.
The study showed striking similarities in the symptoms and prevalence of schizophrenia among many countries, and revealed differences in quality of care. It set a standard for psychiatric epidemiology and led to decades of subsequent research into other disorders, like depression and anxiety, as well as interventions for treatment.
Dr. Lin continued to develop research methods throughout most of his career, at universities in Europe, the United States and finally Canada, at the University of British Columbia.
In Taiwan, where in the 1950s and 1960s he devised and helped establish a modern mental health care system, Dr. Lin was seen as more than a medical figure. His father, a prominent intellectual, was killed in the infamous 2-28 massacre, in which Nationalist Chinese troops fired on native Taiwanese protesters in 1947, setting off a wave of violence that left thousands of Taiwanese dead. In 1998, Dr. Lin edited a book, ''An Introduction to the 2-28 Tragedy in Taiwan: For World Citizens,'' which in part laid out a blueprint for reconciliation between the native population and the island's mainland Chinese.
The president of Taiwan at the time of its publication, Lee Teng-hui, ''basically implemented the plan that Tsung-yi proposed,'' said Richard H. Solomon, president of the United States Institute of Peace. ''It was a seminal contribution to a society that was deeply wounded and divided.''
Tsung-yi Lin was born on Sept. 19, 1920, in Tainan, Taiwan. Both his father, Mo-seng Lin, a professor, and his mother, Chai-Hwang Wang, received higher education in Japan, as did their son. He graduated from Tokyo Imperial University School of Medicine, now the University of Tokyo, in 1943, and his postgraduate training included stints in the 1950s at Harvard Medical School and later at the Maudsley Institute of Psychiatry in London.
He was director of mental health at the W.H.O. from 1964 to 1969, then moved to the University of Michigan, where he stayed through 1973 before joining the faculty at the University of British Columbia, retiring from his full-time position in 1985. He served as president of the World Federation of Mental Health from 1974 to 1979.
Dr. Lin was the author, co-author or editor of a number of influential books, including ''Mental Health Planning for One Billion People: A Chinese Perspective,'' with Leon Eisenberg, and ''Normal and Abnormal Behavior in Chinese Culture,'' with Dr. Kleinman. He founded the psychiatry department at National Taiwan University in Taipei and trained many of its leading graduates.
Dr. Lin is survived by his wife, Mei-chen Lin; five children, Dr. Siong-chi Lin, Lillian Lin Miao, Dr. Elizabeth Lin, Joy Lin Salzberg and Dr. David Lin; 11 grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
The killing of his father was a defining event in Dr. Lin's life, those who knew him said. But it was not politics or conflict that animated his later work.
''He was not insensitive'' to looking at cultural differences in psychiatry, Dr. Kleinman said. ''But he was asking a bigger question: What is similar in mental illness around the world? What is it that we all have in common?''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on Tuesday about the psychiatrist Tsung-yi Lin, a former director of mental health at the World Health Organization, referred incorrectly to Dr. Lin's age at the time his father was killed in 1947. He was 26; he was not a teenager. The obituary also misstated the given name of the president of the United States Institute of Peace, who commented on the effect of Dr. Lin's work in Taiwan. He is Richard H. Solomon, not Robert.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Tsung-yi Lin helped to develop mental health systems. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHIATRY (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEPRESSION (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (52%) TAIWAN (96%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010



175 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: The Gospel Of Wealth

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Maybe the first decade of the 21st century will come to be known as the great age of headroom. During those years, new houses had great rooms with 20-foot ceilings and entire new art forms had to be invented to fill the acres of empty overhead wall space.
People bought bulbous vehicles like Hummers and Suburbans. The rule was, The Smaller the Woman, the Bigger the Car -- so you would see a 90-pound lady in tennis whites driving a 4-ton truck with enough headroom to allow her to drive with her doubles partner perched atop her shoulders. 
When future archeologists dig up the remains of that epoch, they will likely conclude that sometime around 1996, the U.S. was afflicted by a plague of claustrophobia and drove itself bankrupt in search of relief.
But that economy went poof, and social norms have since changed. The oversized now looks slightly ridiculous. Values have changed as well.
Today, savings rates are climbing and smart advertisers emphasize small-town restraint and respectability. The Tea Party movement is militantly bourgeois. It uses Abbie Hoffman means to get back to Norman Rockwell ends.
In the coming years of slow growth, people are bound to establish new norms and seek noneconomic ways to find meaning. One of the interesting figures in this recalibration effort is David Platt.
Platt earned two master's degrees and a doctorate from the New Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary. At age 26, he was hired to lead a 4,300-person suburban church in Birmingham, Ala., and became known as the youngest megachurch leader in America.
Platt grew uneasy with the role he had fallen into and wrote about it in a recent book called ''Radical: Taking Back Your Faith From the American Dream.'' It encapsulates many of the themes that have been floating around 20-something evangelical circles the past several years.
Platt's first target is the megachurch itself. Americans have built themselves multimillion-dollar worship palaces, he argues. These have become like corporations, competing for market share by offering social centers, child-care programs, first-class entertainment and comfortable, consumer Christianity.
Jesus, Platt notes, made it hard on his followers. He created a minichurch, not a mega one. Today, however, building budgets dwarf charitable budgets, and Jesus is portrayed as a genial suburban dude. ''When we gather in our church building to sing and lift up our hands in worship, we may not actually be worshipping the Jesus of the Bible. Instead, we may be worshipping ourselves.''
Next, Platt takes aim at the American dream. When Europeans first settled this continent, they saw the natural abundance and came to two conclusions: that God's plan for humanity could be realized here, and that they could get really rich while helping Him do it. This perception evolved into the notion that we have two interdependent callings: to build in this world and prepare for the next.
The tension between good and plenty, God and mammon, became the central tension in American life, propelling ferocious energies and explaining why the U.S. is at once so religious and so materialist. Americans are moral materialists, spiritualists working on matter.
Platt is in the tradition of those who don't believe these two spheres can be reconciled. The material world is too soul-destroying. ''The American dream radically differs from the call of Jesus and the essence of the Gospel,'' he argues. The American dream emphasizes self-development and personal growth. Our own abilities are our greatest assets.
But the Gospel rejects the focus on self: ''God actually delights in exalting our inability.'' The American dream emphasizes upward mobility, but ''success in the kingdom of God involves moving down, not up.''
Platt calls on readers to cap their lifestyle. Live as if you made $50,000 a year, he suggests, and give everything else away. Take a year to surrender yourself. Move to Africa or some poverty-stricken part of the world. Evangelize.
Platt's arguments are old, but they emerge at a postexcess moment, when attitudes toward material life are up for grabs. His book has struck a chord. His renunciation tome is selling like hotcakes. Reviews are warm. Leaders at places like the Southern Baptist Convention are calling on citizens to surrender the American dream.
I doubt that we're about to see a surge of iPod shakers. Americans will not renounce the moral materialism at the core of their national identity. But the country is clearly redefining what sort of lifestyle is socially and morally acceptable and what is not. People like Platt are central to that process.
The United States once had a Gospel of Wealth: a code of restraint shaped by everybody from Jonathan Edwards to Benjamin Franklin to Andrew Carnegie. The code was designed to help the nation cope with its own affluence. It eroded, and over the next few years, it will be redefined.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (74%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (74%); MARKET SHARE (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (69%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (52%); CHILD CARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (71%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



176 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Tate Modern Expansion Is the Cost Of Success

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
LONDON -- When the Tate Modern opened here 10 years ago it was the first new national museum built in Britain in 100 years and the first museum in London devoted solely to modern art. A hulking brick building that was a former power station on the south side of the Thames River at Bankside, a slowly gentrifying area just opposite St. Paul's Cathedral, the $208 million museum captivated the art world and made a city better known for its stuffier, historic collections into an international mecca for new art.
Forty-five million people have been through the galleries of the Tate Modern since its opening, more than twice the number officials had predicted. Now Nicholas Serota, director of all the Tate museums (a network that includes Tate Britain across the river in Milbank along with branches in Liverpool and St. Ives) and the mastermind behind the Tate Modern, insists that despite the rocky economy and the recent announcement of government cutbacks for arts financing, the Tate Modern must grow. 
A victim of its own success, the museum has overcrowded galleries, he explained, and needs not just more space but also different kinds of spaces. This spring it broke ground on an extension next to the existing building on a plot of land with disused oil tanks that once held fuel to power London. Under construction is an 11-story glass-and-perforated-brick origamilike structure by the Swiss architects Herzog & de Meuron, who transformed the power station into the Tate Modern.
''Of course it's a tough time,'' Mr. Serota said one summer morning sitting sipping tea in his office across the river at Tate Britain. ''But it's not the moment to give up. Some of the great museums in America were built during a depression.''
On a cloudless afternoon a few days later, the grounds around the Tate Modern were packed. Families were picnicking on its lawn beside the banks of the Thames; crowds were hanging around Turbine Hall, the museum's cavernous main entrance; and people were clustered inside the galleries, many glued to the video screens of ''A Story of Deception,'' a major exhibition devoted to Francis Als, a Mexico City artist known for politically charged work. But unlike most American museums, which feel spic and span, the Tate Modern seems worn out.
Visitors have not been kind to the building. When it opened, officials said they expected two million to two and a half million people the first year. More than five million came. Now attendance hovers around four and a half million people a year. (By way of comparison, the Museum of Modern Art in New York reports that its attendance last year was about three million, a record for the institution.) The Tate Modern's galleries have taken a beating. Some look as though they could use fresh paint; the bathrooms are dirty; and during rush hour the cafes seem chaotic.
''I think it's better than it was,'' Mr. Serota said. ''Frankly we were overwhelmed when we first opened. To go from zero to five million visitors in one year is asking a lot. And I think that Years 2 and 3 the institution was to some extent struggling with its own success. But it's now grown to a place where it seems comfortable.''
The extension was part of the Tate Modern's original plan, Mr. Serota was quick to point out. (Crews are working daily, and the museum's Web site, tate.org.uk/modern/transformingtm/today.htm, offers a live feed from the site, updated every 15 minutes.)
Yet the $328.6 million extension may be a financial drain on the institution, although the museum has received $77 million from the Department of Culture, Media and Sport; $10.8 million from the London Development Agency; and money from private sources. A spokeswoman for the Tate said about half the money had been raised, although she declined to give a figure. That leaves Mr. Serota with about $164 million still to raise.
And because Mr. Serota is arguably the most powerful figure in the London art world, no artists, dealers, curators or collectors would speak for attribution about the financial problems at Tate Modern. But many are whispering that this is hardly the moment to be getting bigger, especially since the Tate Modern barely has the money to maintain the building it has.
''It's not a question of bigger,'' Mr. Serota argued. ''We need to be able to do things that we cannot now currently do, particularly in the field of learning but also different scales of projects -- different displays and exhibitions.'' The extension, he said, would also alleviate some of the museum's current problems, like crowding.
The Tate Modern does not have the kind of world-class collection that the Museum of Modern Art does, and probably never will. In large part this is because Britain has had few philanthropists or collectors who have given their collections to museums, and fewer still who have collected modern art. Another problem is that the great works are either astronomically expensive or already in other museum collections. To compensate the Tate Modern has been aggressively concentrating on building its holdings in art from the past 50 years.
''We have a large collection that the public has come to love and appreciate,'' he said. When things are taken off view, he said, ''like Rebecca Horn's 'Concert for Anarchy,' or Cornelia Parker's 'Cold Dark Matter: An Exploded View,' people complain. We have also bought a lot of film and video installations that we want to be able to show as well as photography.''
Norman Rosenthal, who was exhibition secretary of the Royal Academy in London for 31 years, said he understood Mr. Serota's problem. ''The Tate Modern has had an effect on London that the Pompidou Center had on Paris,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''It has exponentially changed the nature of London in a way nobody could have anticipated.'' Sympathetic to the enormous practical challenges of running a museum, Mr. Rosenthal added that he saw both the merits and the difficulties of expanding in today's economy.
''Certainly this is not an age of luxury,'' he said. ''The Goldman Sachian era of the 1990s is over.'' And although he agreed that some of the galleries at the Tate Modern could look a bit ''grimy,'' he said that moving forward was a good thing, difficult though it would be.
''All the museums in New York are too small for contemporary art,'' he said. ''It's a worldwide phenomenon.'' Besides, a new extension will make the institution more popular still, he said, adding, ''Everyone loves something new.''
When Tate Modern first opened, American money accounted for nearly 30 percent of its individual financing. A look at the donors' wall includes the names of some of America's best-known contemporary-art collectors: Donald Fisher, a founder of the Gap; Charles Schwab, the investment magnate; Donald L. Bryant, the New York collector; the Boston collectors Dr. Mortimer and Theresa Sackler. American corporations like Bloomberg were also generous.
Henry Christensen III, a Manhattan lawyer who is a trustee of American Patrons of the Tate, a nonprofit fund-raising arm that has tax-exempt status in the United States, called the extension ''a giant challenge'' but a necessary one, adding that the museum's fund-raising in the United States has been ''unabated even in this economy.'' But so far, officials at the Tate said, only about 4 percent of the money raised for the extension has come from the United States.
''If you had a choice, you wouldn't have launched a program to expand at this time,'' Mr. Serota said. ''Obviously it's slower than it was, but we're making good progress. There is money around. We just have to keep going.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, the construction site for the expansion of the Tate Modern in London. Far left, a rendering of the extension designed by the Swiss architects Herzog & de Meuron. Left, Nicholas Serota, director of all Tate museums and the mastermind behind the Tate Modern. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
HERZOG & DE MEURON AND HAYES DAVIDSON, 2009
 HUGO GLENDINNING) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (97%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



177 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: Movies, Mountains and High Hopes

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
TELLURIDE, Colo. -- ''If what we hear from down on the plains is true, and film culture is dying,'' said the Australian director Peter Weir, up in the mountains here to present his latest movie, ''The Way Back,'' ''then perhaps this place can become a kind of Machu Picchu of cinema.'' Not a ruin, of course, but a fortress and a shrine, a sacred spot where embattled traditions can survive in troubled times.
Telluride is already a pilgrimage spot for film lovers, who mingled over Labor Day weekend with fly-fishing enthusiasts, mountain bikers and other worshipers in the church of high-end leisure, turning a remote former mining town into a holy city of movies. The atmosphere is hardly ascetic -- the Telluride Film Festival calls itself ''the show'' and conducts its business with low-key Western flair -- but the exalted sense of seriousness that Mr. Weir evoked is an important part of the show's self-image. 
The program, which is announced at the beginning of the festival rather than trumpeted via news release months in advance, includes rarities and restorations, and also seminars and discussions with visiting filmmakers, writers and scholars. This year, for example, pass holders lined up for the original, silent ''Chicago'' and the Italian silent film ''Rotaie.'' They also flocked to documentaries about cinematic giants of yore, including Elia Kazan, the cinematographer Jack Cardiff and Jacques Tati. One of Tati's unproduced screenplays inspired ''The Illusionist,'' a lovely and melancholy animated feature by Sylvain Chomet that was a high point of the festival.
Whatever Mr. Weir, in his remarks at the first screening of ''The Way Back'' on Friday night, meant by ''film culture'' -- the term has a long and controversial history -- it is certainly preserved and celebrated here at the end of each summer. Telluride, now in its 37th year, is at once more relaxed and more intense than other festivals. Lasting only 4 days rather than the usual 10, the show features elaborate line-waiting protocols, open-air question-and-answer sessions with stars and directors, and bustling public picnics on the opening and closing days. This festival guards its sense of specialness jealously, and it guards traditions that are intended to keep hype and scene making at bay.
But the exalted, rarefied atmosphere is to some extent a carefully maintained illusion, an aspect of the show. (Not for nothing is the official festival headquarters known as Brigadoon.) Telluride, which takes place right before Toronto and in the middle of Venice, is hardly isolated from the ordinary business of movies. It is a transit point for movies from Sundance and Cannes and also a showcase for high-profile, Oscar-aspiring autumn releases.
In this season some of the anxieties that afflict the movie world -- and the world beyond it -- have filtered up into the highlands. Like other nonprofit institutions Telluride has lost corporate support in the wake of the financial crisis, a situation that was mentioned repeatedly at screenings in the introductory remarks, when patrons and sponsors were thanked and audience members were reminded to silence their phones.
That is easily done. It can be harder, though, to tune out the festival's natural setting, which frequently upstages the movies on its screens, at least as far as sheer visual sublimity is concerned. Equally dramatic landscapes figured in a number of movies here this year. Danny Boyle's latest, ''127 Hours,'' which made one of the unannounced ''sneak'' appearances that are a festival trademark, was shot in neighboring Utah. It stars James Franco as Aron Ralston, a hiker whose real-life ordeal was something of a sensation in 2003. You may remember the story: Trapped in a narrow crevasse in a deep canyon, Mr. Ralston escaped by cutting off part of his right arm, which was pinned by a boulder.
His experience is disconcerting enough just to think about, and to see it recreated in Mr. Boyle's characteristically fast-moving, immersive style is jarring, thrilling and weirdly funny. At a question-and-answer session after the first screening on Saturday afternoon, Mr. Boyle -- the director of ''Trainspotting,''''28 Days Later'' and of course ''Slumdog Millionaire,'' which sneaked into Telluride two years ago -- described himself as a thoroughly urban type with no great love for or interest in nature. And the jangly, jumpy energy he brings to a story of silence, solitude and confinement gives the film an irreverent kick that deepens and sharpens its emotional and spiritual insights.
Mr. Weir, unlike Mr. Boyle, has frequently shown a reverence for the beauties and terrors of nature, going back to early films like ''The Last Wave'' and ''Picnic at Hanging Rock,'' in which the topography of his native country assumes a haunting, even demonic presence. The drama of human beings confronting the elemental power of nature figures in later work like ''The Mosquito Coast'' and ''Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World,'' and also in ''The Way Back.''
Compared with Mr. Boyle's, Mr. Weir's style is stately, almost classical, and the astonishing story he has to tell -- about a group of men who escaped from a Soviet labor camp in 1941 and walked to India from Siberia -- has an old-fashioned gravity and grandeur. There are fine performances from Ed Harris, Saoirse Ronan and Jim Sturgess as Janusz, the Polish prisoner who leads the trek toward freedom, and breathtaking images of tundra, desert forest and grassland.
''Le Quattro Volte,'' directed by Michelangelo Frammartino, never ventures beyond a small rural village in southern Italy, and yet its view of nature is among the most profound, expansive and unsettling I have ever encountered on film. There is virtually no dialogue, but the film is far from silent: the rustling of trees, the sounds of agricultural labor, the barking of a dog and in particular the cries of goats supply a meaning that transcends words, while Mr. Frammartino's eye for both comedy and mystery produces compositions that are so strange and memorable that they seem to reinvent the very act of perception.
''Le Quattro Volte'' will soon make its way into the urban setting of the New York Film Festival, along with some other travelers from Telluride, including ''Another Year'' by Mike Leigh, ''Carlos'' by Olivier Assayas and ''Inside Job,'' a documentary about the roots of the current economic crisis by Charles Ferguson, whose ''No End in Sight'' is one of the definitive documentaries about the war in Iraq. ''Inside Job'' was part of a strong documentary field that also included the queasy, marvelously bizarre ''Tabloid'' from Errol Morris and ''Precious Life,'' a moving film about Palestinian family members from Gaza trying to save one of their children from a fatal genetic disorder with the help of an Israeli doctor and the filmmaker, the television journalist Shlomi Eldar.
The second sneak of the festival was ''Black Swan,'' a backstage melodrama by Darren Aronofsky that often plays like a horror movie. It popped up on Sunday along with Mr. Aronofsky himself, making his first visit to this festival en route from Venice, where ''Black Swan'' opened last week and where his previous film, ''The Wrestler,'' won the top prize two years ago.
''Black Swan'' is, in many ways, a companion to the earlier film in that it is the story of a performer driven to sometimes gruesome extremes of physical and psychological self-punishment in the pursuit of professional glory. In this case the protagonist is an up-and-coming ballerina (played by Natalie Portman) rather than a down-and-out gladiator, but if anything, the violence is more intense.
And intensity -- a swirl of dread, suspense and almost tactile beauty, brought to fever pitch by Clint Mansell's Tchaikovsky-on-steroids score -- is certainly what ''Black Swan'' delivers. It also builds a gaudy, gothic frame around a disturbing and virtuosic central performance, as Ms. Portman travels the spectrum from meek to monstrous and discovers a terrifying new variation on the old idea of suffering for art.
The visceral impact of ''Black Swan'' is hard to dispute -- at least my own pounding heart and clammy palms could not dispute it -- but a calmer discussion of its merits and faults will wait for another occasion. The same is true of ''127 Hours,'' ''Another Year,'' ''The King's Speech'' (starring Colin Firth as George VI) and the other films that have now begun their climb down the mountain, hoping to arrive on Feb. 27 on the stage of the Kodak Theater. Film culture may or may not be ailing, but the business of show goes on.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Natalie Portman in ''Black Swan,'' the new film from Darren Aronofsky. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIKO TAVERNISE/FOX SEARCHLIGHT PICTURES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (88%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); US LABOR DAY (75%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (72%); WRITERS (65%); SPORT FISHING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



178 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Leadership Merry-Go-Round

 BODY:
Japan's frequent leadership changes are dizzying and increasingly counterproductive. The country has had 14 prime ministers in the last two decades and could soon have another. That would make three in the last 12 months alone -- hardly time enough to introduce new policies, much less effectively implement them. 
This phenomenon would make successful governance difficult in any country. But Japan is the world's third largest economy and a technological and regional power. It needs a prime minister who can offer robust, principled leadership over a sustained period, win support for economic policies that would help pull the world out of recession and maintain a strong alliance with the United States.
The decision is expected on Sept. 14 when the ruling Democratic Party of Japan chooses a new party chief. As leader of the majority party, the winner would almost surely become prime minister. Ichiro Ozawa, a longtime power broker, said last week that he would face-off against Naoto Kan, who has been the prime minister for three months.
Mr. Kan has more popular support. Mr. Ozawa -- who has largely operated in the political shadows -- has more chits with the party members who will actually elect the party chief. Analysts say the contest is too close to call. Both men have their flaws but are preferable to the last few prime ministers under the Liberal Democratic Party, which governed for most of 50 years until the Democratic Party of Japan broke the hold in August last year.
Mr. Kan is being challenged because he lost control of the Upper House in a July election. Mr. Ozawa, who is known for his deal-making skills but has never held a governing position, is bedeviled by a political funding scandal and could yet be indicted.
Whoever wins, the first priority has to be the economy. Although constrained by a public debt approaching 100 percent of its gross domestic product and a fiscal deficit hovering around 10 percent of G.D.P., Japan needs to do more to stimulate domestic demand -- to deal with the immediate emergency and diminish its dependence on exports as an economic engine. This requires maintaining fiscal stimulus. It also requires a longer-term strategy that encourages spending by households.
At a joint news conference last week, Mr. Ozawa was more aggressive about wanting to boost spending to lift growth, including increasing monthly allowances to families with children and to farmers. Mr. Kan focused more on reducing the public debt -- a bad idea during a recession -- and doubling the sales tax to 10 percent.
Reinforcing close relations with the United States is also important. Mr. Kan has promised to move forward with a long-debated plan to relocate an American Air Force base on Okinawa. Mr. Ozawa wants to reopen negotiations -- yet again. He needs to reconsider that unrealistic position because he admits he has no alternative proposals and the Americans are certain to balk. For too long, the base controversy has strained bilateral security ties. His comment last month that Americans are simple ''single-celled organisms'' doesn't seem to be the best way to make new friends.
Once the choice is made, we hope the next prime minister is around long enough to enact coherent economic and diplomatic policies. Revolving-door leaders with constantly shifting agendas are not in Japan's interest -- or the rest of the world's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FAMILY (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); RELOCATIONS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ARMED FORCES (50%); AIR FORCES (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); SCANDALS (50%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



179 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainty After Summer

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
Bankers returning from summer vacations have some reason to be happy to be back at work. After all, the momentum suggests business at something closer to normal for the rest of 2010. But markets remain choppy, and that could mean an extended, and unwanted, break for some.
This was a record August for new junk bond sales and the best for announced mergers and acquisitions since 1999, according to Thomson Reuters. With interest rates still low, such deal-making may well continue. 
New equity issues also brought promise. The pipeline for initial public offerings in the United States almost doubled to about $75 billion after General Motors, Skype and Hulu led the latest pack to file or consider filing stock market debuts. That figure should increase once the almost 200 companies considering going public decide how much to raise. Throw in the backlog for public offerings abroad, follow-on deals and convertible bonds and there is an additional $330 billion of potential work.
The associated fees would be a huge boon for equity bankers. This is their slowest year since 2005 as markets wrestle with an economy teetering between recovery and a double dip. Many earlier listings, however, are trading below their offer prices. And investors have taken a net $33 billion out of equity funds so far this year, according to Lipper. As long as that sentiment persists, it will be harder to get new deals out the door.
Such uncertainty could hit mergers, too. Corporate boards may prefer to catch up on overdue capital investment or just hoard their cash. Junk bonds and other debt deals will dry up if economic fears predominate. That would have a follow-on effect on trading, where revenue has recently dipped.
Wall Street is accustomed to topsy-turvy markets. But with public opprobrium constraining bonuses, the likes of JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs have limited their employees' compensation to around 40 percent of revenue. If the robust showing in August proves inauspicious, banks may find they have too small a fee pie from which too many slices will need to be cut. It might not take much of a slowdown before they soon start slashing jobs.
Other People's Money
Hedge fund managers can have a love-hate relationship with other people's money, or O.P.M. Without it, they wouldn't get so wealthy. But with it, they can wind up having too much. The best course may be to get rich with O.P.M., and then go solo.
Take a trader with $20 million of cash. If he is capable of making 20 percent a year for his own account -- a good bit more than the average hedge fund made over the last decade -- and lives frugally, then 10 years later he would be worth more than $120 million.
That is pretty good, but suppose he instead adds to his own starting pot $80 million of O.P.M., and charges 2 percent of assets and 20 percent of gains. And assume just $10 million more comes in each subsequent year, while expenses are covered by fee income and any excess is reinvested. A decade later, the trader's original $20 million will have become more than $220 million.
His investors will have made, net of fees, a healthy annual compound return of 14 percent. The trader, however, will have made, on average, 27 percent a year. Einstein is supposed to have said that compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe. He forgot the turbo lift that fees can give.
Responsible fund managers concede that managing other people's money can be stressful. And then there is the problem faced by Stanley Druckenmiller, a celebrated former colleague of George Soros. He has told outside investors in his 30-year-old fund operation, Duquesne Capital, that he cannot make big enough returns with more than $10 billion to deploy and is giving back their money.
That is more honest than accumulating assets and charging management fees even as performance declines. And Mr. Druckenmiller's skill has provided investors average annual returns of 30 percent since the mid-1980s. Moreover, while hedge fund managers may get an extra lift from fees, broadly speaking they win big only when their investors also win.
So if providers of other people's money choose funds wisely, there is not much for them to complain about. But their cash may be valuable to hedge fund managers only until it is not.
ANTONY CURRIE and RICHARD BEALES
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stanley Druckenmiller closed his fund rather than offer only meager returns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); LAYOFFS (62%); INTEREST RATES (56%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: STANLEY DRUCKENMILLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



180 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Hope for a Bronx Tower of Hip-Hop Lore

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
Housing advocates, tenants and elected officials have declared a victory in the Bronx with the announcement of the sale of the mortgage on an apartment building that has been called the birthplace of hip-hop. The sale, which was financed with significant help from city agencies, was the first step toward bringing in new owners after what tenants called an era of neglect.
The group trying to take over the building, Workforce Housing Advisors, pledged to address the many violations and improve maintenance at the building, which had been highlighted by elected officials and tenant advocates as an emblem of New York's affordable housing crisis. 
The hulking brick tower at 1520 Sedgwick Avenue has been a haven for generations of working-class families. In the early 1970s, a young resident named Clive Campbell, otherwise known as D.J. Kool Herc, held much-celebrated parties in the community room -- parties that played a crucial role in the early evolution of hip-hop.
The building was sold in 2008 to a real estate group that included Mark Karasick, a prominent real estate investor, as part of a wave of deals in neighborhoods that had long been ignored. City officials initially tried to stop the sale, saying that the financing was not viable, but they were not successful.
When the real estate bubble burst, the building's conditions deteriorated, leaving tenants to battle rats, roaches and the threats of foreclosure. Mr. Karasick's group tried to sell the building, affordable-housing advocates said, while housing officials sought to broker a deal of their own. Mr. Karasick's lawyer did not return a call for comment last week.
The city's Housing Development Corporation supported WinnResidential, a real estate firm based in Boston, and Workforce Housing Advisors, Winn's local partner, as they expressed interest in buying the Sedgwick Avenue building. Workforce Housing Advisors, a new company, is run by executives with years of experience in important roles in city housing agencies. If they complete the sale, the Sedgwick building would be the group's first property.
The city provided a $5.6 million loan to allow Winn and Workforce Housing to buy the building's mortgage from Sovereign Bank for $6.2 million. The money came from a new $750 million city program to rescue distressed multifamily buildings from unsupportable debt by helping buyers deemed responsible by the city take over the troubled properties.
''We're serious about making sure that buildings don't destabilize and then destabilize neighborhoods as well,'' said Rafael E. Cestero, the commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development.
He said the city would pursue similar deals to ensure that affordable housing ''doesn't fall victim to people who are there only to make a quick buck.''
Gloria Robinson, president of the Sedgwick tenants' association, said the sale offered the prospect of much-needed relief.
''It had gotten to a point where nothing was being done properly around the building,'' Ms. Robinson said. ''The garbage wasn't being picked up, the floors weren't being cleaned. It just got really, really bad. It's like we're starting fresh now.''
D.J. Kool Herc called it ''a great moment for 1520 Sedgwick Avenue.''
''This is a historic site,'' he said. ''This is where hip-hop comes from. This is it.''
Maintenance should improve quickly -- the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, set aside $3 million in discretionary money to make improvements there.
The new mortgage owners have filed for foreclosure, which would allow the building to be sold at a public auction, likely to be held next year. City officials said they expected Workforce Housing Advisors to prevail, though they could not guarantee that they would offer the highest bid.
Representative Jose E. Serrano, one of the building's early champions, noted there were still hurdles to clear, but said, ''This is a strong victory because this is such a visible building.''
The property sale will follow the model set by Omni New York, the real estate company led by the former Mets player Mo Vaughn. Last year, the city helped broker a deal for Omni to take over 14 buildings owned by the Ocelot Capital Group, an investment group that bought and then abandoned 25 Bronx buildings, which fell into disrepair.
''We're going to bring the building back to a place where someone would be happy to live with dignity,'' said Kevin Gallagher, a director of Workforce Housing Advisors.
Senator Charles E. Schumer called the building ''the birthplace of predatory equity.''
''This triumph stands as a message to others: beware,'' he said. ''It's a message to those owners or lenders who want to buy these buildings at exorbitant rates with the only purpose of kicking the tenants out and raising the rents.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The announced sale of the mortgage for 1520 Sedgwick Avenue is expected to lead to repairs and the building's sale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (87%); FAMILY (79%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); HOUSING BUBBLE (74%); CITIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



181 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Once a Dynamo, The Tech Sector Is Slow to Hire

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
For years the technology sector has been considered the most dynamic, promising and globally envied industry in the United States. It escaped the recession relatively unscathed, and profits this year have been soaring.
But as the nation struggles to put people back to work, even high-tech companies have been slow to hire, a sign of just how difficult it will be to address persistently high joblessness. While the labor report released last week showing August figures provided mildly positive news on private-sector hiring, the unemployment rate was 9.6 percent.
The disappointing hiring trend raises questions about whether the tech industry can help power a recovery and sustain American job growth in the next decade and beyond. Its tentativeness has prompted economists to ask ''If high tech isn't hiring, who will?''
''We are talking about people with very particular, advanced skills out there who are at this point just not needed anymore,'' says Bart van Ark, chief economist at the Conference Board, a business and economic research organization. ''Even in this sector, there is tremendous insecurity.'' 
Government labor reports released this year, including the most recent one, present a tableau of shrinking opportunities in high-skill fields.
Job growth in fields like computer systems design and Internet publishing has been slow in the last year. Employment in areas like data processing and software publishing has actually fallen. Additionally, computer scientists, systems analysts and computer programmers all had unemployment rates of around 6 percent in the second quarter of this year.
While that might sound like a blessing compared with the rampant joblessness in manufacturing, it is still significantly higher than the unemployment rates in other white-collar professions.
The chief hurdles to more robust technology hiring appear to be increasing automation and the addition of highly skilled labor overseas. The result is a mismatch of skill levels here at home: not enough workers with the cutting-edge skills coveted by tech firms, and too many people with abilities that can be duplicated offshore at lower cost.
That's a familiar situation to many out-of-work software engineers, whose skills start depreciating almost as soon as they are laid off, given the dynamism of the industry.
''I'm sending out lots and lots and lots of applications, to everywhere within a 50-mile radius,'' says Rosamaria Carbonell Mann, 49, a software engineer who was terminated in June when her employer closed its branch in Corvallis, Ore., and sent the work to China.
Corvallis was once a hotbed for tech start-ups. But Ms. Mann said that with layoffs from other tech companies in the area, including Hewlett-Packard, the city now has a glut of people like herself: unemployed engineers with multiple degrees. ''I apply for everything I can find, but there are just not that many jobs out there,'' she said.
Nevertheless, many high-tech companies large and small say they are struggling to find highly skilled engineering talent in the United States.
''We are firing up our college recruiting program, enduring all manner of humiliation to try to fill these jobs,'' said Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an online brokerage agency for buying and selling homes that is based in Seattle and San Francisco. ''I do think we're still chasing them, not the other way around.''
He added, ''If there's the one enclave that has been completely unaffected by recession, it would be Stanford computer science students.''
Meanwhile, an earlier generation of engineers is scouring for jobs, and having to compete with a more globalized pool of talent. There are no definitive statistics on how many jobs are being moved overseas. But economists who follow highly skilled employment say that some of the most prominent companies that laid off workers during the recession, like I.B.M., are expanding their work forces abroad.
''Certainly a lot of these I.T. services firms plus the core software firms like Oracle are globalizing their work, or, as they put it, 'rebalancing' their work forces,'' says Ronil Hira, an assistant professor of public policy at the Rochester Institute of Technology.
In the past, the American jobs most susceptible to being shipped abroad were lower-skilled positions. But now emerging economies have been harvesting their long-term investments in math and science education and attracting high-tech firms -- and not just textile factories or call centers -- to their shores.
These higher skills have become commodities, said Catherine L. Mann, a global finance professor at the Brandeis University International Business School who studies the outsourcing of jobs. The programming language ''C++ is now an international language,'' she said. ''If that's all you know, then you're competing with people in India or China who will do the work for less.''
In addition to lower wages, developing countries offer significant consumer growth, giving businesses a reason to make more products closer to the buyer, and hire locally.
And increasingly, these new, lower-cost research centers, while perhaps initially intended to adapt products for local use, are becoming sources of innovation themselves.
''There's been this assumption that there's a global hierarchy of work, that all the high-end service work, knowledge work, R.&D. work would stay in U.S., and that all the lower-end work would be transferred to emerging markets,'' said Hal Salzman, a public policy professor at Rutgers and a senior faculty fellow at Heldrich Center for Workforce Development.
''That hierarchy has been upset, to say the least,'' he said. ''More and more of the innovation is coming out of the emerging markets, as part of this bottom-up push.''
The narrative is familiar to Ms. Mann, the unemployed software engineer. She said her employer, International Gaming Technology, initially told her office that it was opening a branch in China to work with the company's casino clients in Macau and Australia.
She said she was told that the new branch would be tailoring products to local needs and doing some back-office work. But a year later it absorbed all the operations once performed by the Corvallis staff. International Gaming Technology, based in Reno, Nev., did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
This is the second time, Ms. Mann said, that an employer has sent her job abroad since she received her master's in computer science more than two decades ago; the last time was in 2001. This week she starts a yearlong program to upgrade her programming skills, paid for by a federal program that assists workers who have been displaced by international trade.
The experience of Ms. Mann and others like her suggests that the technology industry may not be the savior of the American job market and a magic bullet for a moribund economy -- even though the Obama administration has called for a revival of math and science training and emphasized the need for American companies to take the lead in fields like clean energy.
Instead, some economists and policy makers are looking to health care to lead an employment surge. They point to the field's growing demand for new services, the need for physical proximity for many patient procedures, and a bureaucracy that entails layer upon layer of jobs.
Because these jobs seem more secure, Ms. Mann said she briefly considered making a move into health care. ''That's something that can't be outsourced as far as I can tell, but it's not for me,'' she said. ''I don't do well looking at people's blood.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''I apply for everything I can find, but there are just not that many jobs,'' said Rosamaria Carbonell Mann, a software engineer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (87%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); TRENDS (76%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (72%); STARTUPS (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (65%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



182 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: Telethon Says $58.9 Million Was Raised

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS (AP) -- Despite the economy, officials with the Jerry Lewis MDA Telethon say contributions and pledges from the Labor Day event this year totaled $58.9 million. 
While the number was down from $60.5 million last year and a record $65 million in 2008, Mr. Lewis said he was pleased with the support to advance the research and service programs of the Muscular Dystrophy Association.
''I'm heartened by the unique ability of Americans to help others in need, when they themselves are likely struggling financially,'' said Mr. Lewis, national chairman of the MDA, which is based in Tucson.
The 45th annual telethon originated for the fifth consecutive year from the South Point Hotel in Las Vegas and reached 40 million viewers through 170 television stations.
Dozens of performers joined the 21.5-hour event, including Barry Manilow, Michael Feinstein, Maureen McGovern, Charo, Carrot Top and Norm Crosby.
''I think it is a huge amount for a tough economy,'' Jann Carl, a host of the show, said. Mr. Lewis said the money would allow the association to continue financing worldwide research to find treatments and cures for muscular dystrophy and related diseases.
Mr. Lewis, 84, ended the telethon with the traditional singing of his signature song, ''You'll Never Walk Alone.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); GENETIC DISEASES (76%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (76%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY ASSOCIATION (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (54%) ARIZONA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



183 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: A Wash and Wax, and a Union?

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- The carwashes of Los Angeles would appear to be an unlikely target for a unionization drive.
Many of the estimated 10,000 workers in the business here are illegal immigrants, who are too scared to speak out or give their bosses any excuse to fire them. Many carwash companies have just two or three outlets, not 20 or 30, requiring scores of separate organizing efforts. And carwash owners, who invest a million dollars or more in each facility, are fiercely resisting the prospect of being tied down by collective bargaining and union rules.
Nonetheless, labor organizers have set out to unionize this city's carwash workers, hoping to improve their paltry pay and end widespread abuses. The unions, led by the United Steelworkers, acknowledge that it is a struggle, but they voice confidence that they can organize the first carwashes in the next few weeks or months, and that this will start a domino effect once other owners realize that unionized businesses can survive and even thrive. 
As organized labor's ranks continue to decline, unions are looking increasingly to low-wage service workers as a source of growth, convinced that these workers -- car washers, janitors, nursing home aides, security guards and pharmacy clerks -- will be eager to join. In some ways, union leaders say, this campaign parallels previous ones in which unions organized thousands of immigrant janitors in Houston and Los Angeles and substantially lifted their wages.
In addition to adding members, the carwash campaign hopes to send a strong message to employers to stop taking advantage of workers in an industry where it is common practice.
California officials have estimated that two-thirds of the 500 carwashes in Los Angeles violate workplace laws. Many workers say they are paid just $35 for a 10-hour workday -- less than half the minimum wage -- and some say they are not paid for time during which no cars go through the wash. Others complain that they are not given gloves or goggles even though they often use stinging acids to clean tire rims.
''These are the farm workers of today,'' said Peter Dreier, a professor of urban policy at Occidental College in Los Angeles. ''They're nearly invisible, even though they work in a highly visible industry.''
After two years the organizing drive, which has involved billboards, lawsuits and a candlelight vigil outside one carwash owner's home, has made important strides.
Most notably, the campaign helped to get two carwash owners, brothers Benny and Nisan Pirian, sentenced to a year in jail for minimum-wage violations, sending shock waves through the industry.
Some Pirian workers had complained that they received no wages -- only tips -- and were not given lunch breaks, causing some to wolf down their food while soaping and scrubbing cars. Prosecutors accused one Pirian manager of brandishing a machete to threaten pro-union workers.
''They exploited and took advantage of the workers just because we were immigrants,'' said Pedro Guzman, a Honduran-born former employee at the Pirians' flagship, Vermont Hand Wash. ''We want to change the bad conditions inside the carwashes.''
In addition to support from the steelworkers, the effort has received financial backing from the national A.F.L.-C.I.O. and many foundations, including the Ford Foundation. It has also attracted support from Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and Cardinal Roger Mahony, the city's Roman Catholic archbishop.
California is often described as the trendsetting car capital of the world, and for many Californians, getting their car washed every week or two is as important as having their hair or nails done.
''The carwash fight is about a core L.A. industry,'' said Rabbi Jonathan Klein, executive director of a clergy group who has often picketed alongside the carwash workers. ''It's an industry built on the backs of cheap labor.''
One day last week, 20 union supporters picketed outside Robertson Car Wash on the west side of Los Angeles, chanting, ''No justice, no peace.'' They protested what they said was the use of tips-only workers. They also demanded that the owner sign an agreement allowing unionization through card check and pledging not to speak out against unionizing.
A young man drove up in his black Honda Accord and opened his window to hear them out. The pickets burst into cheers when he backed up and drove away.
One customer, Aimee Neufeld, said she knew little about the dispute. She said she was sorry to hear the workers claim minimum-wage violations, but added, ''In this neighborhood, people tend to be generous tippers, and that should supplement their income.'' Several workers said their tips ran from $40 to $80 a day.
For eight months, union activists have picketed Robertson Car Wash, hoping to pressure its owner, Ilya Bershadsky, into becoming the first one to sign a pro-union agreement. He has resisted.
''This carwash has been unfairly singled out,'' said Mr. Bershadsky's lawyer, John A. Lawrence. ''They don't have the interest of any of the employees working inside. One picket told us, 'We don't care if we put you out of business.' ''
Randy Crestall, owner of Autospa Chevron Hand Wash in Valencia, a Los Angeles suburb, said that law-abiding owners resented their scofflaw competitors.
''They're a blight on our industry,'' said Mr. Crestall, a former president of the Western Carwash Association. ''As good operators, we don't like them to be on the same playing field as us.''
He said 95 percent of California's car washes were law-abiding, although he acknowledged that many in Los Angeles flout the law.
Mr. Crestall said the unionization push would hurt everyone. ''Having a union will mean higher wages, and that will lead to higher prices,'' he said. ''That will mean fewer consumers coming to carwashes, and fewer jobs for these workers.''
The leaders of the unionization drive acknowledge that success will be difficult. ''These immigrant workers are being beaten down by the system,'' said Leo W. Gerard, president of the United Steelworkers. ''They deserve a chance of having a voice at work, and we are good at helping people do that.''
The unionization drive calls itself the Clean Carwash Campaign and has created a brigade of former carwash workers, many of whom had been fired for backing a union.
''This is not the type of campaign you win overnight,'' said Chloe Osmer, the campaign's strategic coordinator. ''It's the type of campaign where you have to bring the floor up in the industry before you can really have some unionization success.''
Although no carwashes have gone union, the campaign helped persuade city officials to investigate the Pirians' carwashes. Last year, the city attorney charged them with a total of 220 misdemeanors that could have meant 120 years in jail. In mid-August, the brothers pleaded no contest to six charges, including grand theft and conspiracy. They were ordered to repay $1.24 million to 54 underpaid workers.
''This is an area where wage theft is particularly prevalent in L.A.,'' said Julia Figueira-McDonough, a deputy city attorney. ''This was a very strong case.''
Mark Werksman, the Pirians' lawyer, said the two brothers had done nothing wrong and had accepted a one-year sentence only because they faced a six-month trial and perhaps dozens of years behind bars.
''They were prosecuted because they were successfully resisting the unionization drive,'' he said. ''The union will drive the carwashes out of business, and everyone in L.A. will have to wash their own car.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A coalition of union supporters picketing at Robertson Car Wash in Los Angeles
picketing has continued for eight months. (B1)
 Custodio Camacho, top left, outside Robertson Car Wash. Pedro Guzman Aguilar, above right, informing workers of their rights. Left, cleaning a car at Robertson. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (75%); FARM LABOR (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); SENTENCING (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



184 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Weight Problems May Begin in the Womb

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
You may think you know why Americans continue to get fatter and develop obesity-related diseases. But the explanation may start long before people have an opportunity to eat too much of the wrong foods and exercise too little.
Increasing evidence indicates that the trouble often starts in the womb, when women gain more weight than is needed to produce a healthy, full-size baby. Excessive weight gain in pregnancy, recent findings show, can result in bigger-than-average babies who are prenatally programmed to become overweight children -- who, in turn, are more likely to develop diabetes, heart disease and cancer later in life.
The Institute of Medicine, the health arm of the National Academy of Sciences, reported last year that more than a third of normal-weight women and more than half of overweight and obese women gain more weight than is recommended during pregnancy. Over all, ''fewer than 40 percent of pregnant women gain only the recommended amount of weight during their pregnancy,'' Dr. Sylvia R. Karasu and Dr. T. Byram Karasu report in their new book ''The Gravity of Weight.''
Not 'In the Genes' 
While genes play a role in weight issues for some people, recent studies indicate that genetics is not the main reason babies are born too fat. Rather, the new evidence suggests that in addition to gaining significantly more weight than is recommended during pregnancy, more women now start out fatter before they become pregnant.
The latest study controlled for the effects of genetics by studying consecutive pregnancies among more than half a million women. The analysis, by Janet Currie, a health economist at Columbia University, and Dr. David S. Ludwig of Children's Hospital Boston, found a consistent association between the amount of weight a woman gained during pregnancy and the birth weight of her babies.
Women who gained more than 53 pounds during a full-term pregnancy with one baby were more than twice as likely to have babies who weighed 9 or more pounds at birth than were women who gained only 18 to 22 pounds. For each kilogram (2.2 pounds) of weight gained by the pregnant mother, the baby's birth weight increased by 7.35 grams (one-fourth of an ounce).
Because birth weight tends to predict body mass index later in life, ''these findings suggest that excessive weight gain during pregnancy could raise the long-term risk of obesity-related disease in offspring,'' the authors concluded in their report, published online in The Lancet on Aug. 5.
The analysis sought to rule out the effects of genetics on birth weight by comparing each married woman's pregnancy weight gain and birth weight of her babies in successive pregnancies that occurred within a few years of each other (and thus were most likely to involve the same father). Although the authors did not know how much the women weighed before becoming pregnant each time, other studies have found that many women fail to lose all their pregnancy weight before they become pregnant again. Thus, they are likely to start out fatter and gain more during the next pregnancy.
In an accompanying editorial, Dr. Neal Halfon and Dr. Michael C. Lu of the Center for Healthier Children, Families and Communities at the University of California, Los Angeles, cited still another study, this one based on data gathered from parents and children in Britain. It found that at age 9, the children of women who had gained more weight than recommended by the Institute of Medicine were fatter than other children, more likely to become overweight, and had several risk factors for heart disease -- including higher blood pressure and lower levels of protective HDLcholesterol -- as well as poorer immune function.
This study, published in Circulation in June, found that a woman's weight before pregnancy was even more important than excessive weight gain during pregnancy in predicting a number of risks for the baby: birth complications, excessive baby fat and ''metabolic abnormalities associated with poor health outcomes, including childhood obesity,'' as the editorial put it.
Dr. Halfon, a pediatrician, said in an interview, ''The little changes in children's metabolism tend to be compounded over time and become big changes in adults.''
The Recommendations
The latest recommendations from the Institute of Medicine, revised last year, suggest these pregnancy weight gains, as determined by a woman's prepregnancy weight:
28 to 40 pounds for thin women, with a B.M.I. of 18.5 or lower.
25 to 35 pounds for normal-weight women, with a body mass index of 18.6 to 24.9.
15 to 25 pounds for overweight women, with a body mass index of 25 to 29.9.
11 to 20 pounds for obese women, with a body mass index of 30 or higher.
Dr. Lu, an obstetrician, said prepregnancy weights in nine states revealed significant increases in overweight and obesity between the periods 1993-94 and 2002-3. Even normal-weight women are now more likely to gain excessive amounts during pregnancy than were women who became pregnant in the 1990s, according to data from the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
According to data from the National Center for Health Statistics, since 1990 proportionately more women have gained more than 40 pounds in a singleton pregnancy.
Higher Birth Weights
The new findings suggest that Americans are now caught in a vicious cycle of increasing fatness, with prospective mothers starting out fatter, gaining more weight during pregnancy and giving birth to babies who are destined to become overweight adults.
''There are a lot more high-birth-weight babies being born,'' Dr. Currie said in an interview, ''and this may have something to do with the increase in overweight we're now seeing in the population over all.''
When I was pregnant 40-odd years ago, a normal-weight woman was expected to keep her pregnancy weight gain to within 24 pounds. But, Dr. Currie said, about 20 years ago the concern about too many babies with low birth weights may have prompted many doctors to be less restrictive about how much weight women gained while pregnant.
''We still see a lot of low-birth-weight babies, but the number of high-birth-weight babies has increased quite dramatically,'' Dr. Currie said. ''There's no reason for a woman to gain more than 40 pounds with a single baby. We used to think babies in the womb were well protected, but we now know they are influenced by lots of things that will affect them later in life.''
She added, ''The next frontier has to be the prepregnancy period. If we really want to improve the health of children, we have to get to mothers before they get pregnant.''
As Dr. Halfon said, ''You can't turn around in the nine months of pregnancy what's been going on for many years of life. The preconception period is critical to placing pregnancy on a healthier trajectory.''
This is the second of two columns about weight. Last week's, on the body mass index, can be found at nytimes.com/brody.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIE CODY/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (92%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (90%); OBESITY (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (78%); WOMEN (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); EATING DISORDERS (76%); CANCER (73%); DIABETES (73%); HEART DISEASE (73%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (71%); WRITERS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (57%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



185 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: In Poll, Most New Yorkers Want to Restore 2-Term Limit for City Officials

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Two years after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg extended the limit on New York City's elected officials from two terms to three, paving the way for his re-election, nearly three-fourths of city voters favor reversing his move, according to a New York Times poll.
The remarkably unified public support is a rebuke for Mr. Bloomberg, who overturned the results of two voter referendums when he asked the City Council to rewrite the term limits law in 2008. 
Now voters appear poised to undo Mr. Bloomberg's actions at the ballot box this November, when they will be asked to select limits of two or three terms.
If anything, the battle over Mr. Bloomberg's decision to revise the rule has intensified public support for the original measure, which restricted most officials to eight consecutive years in office: in 1993, it was adopted with 59 percent of the vote. Today, 73 percent want it restored, the survey found.
Interviews with respondents to the poll show that frustration with the mayor's aggressive tactics two years ago has influenced their views on the issue.
''When the term limits were enacted, I thought it was a bad idea, but what was worse was the way Bloomberg went about overturning that law,'' said Alan Brodherson, 46, a lawyer who lives on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. ''The way he handled it was not right.''
Now, Mr. Brodherson said, he was considering voting for the two-term limit to avoid rewarding Mr. Bloomberg for what he saw as a self-serving maneuver.
In a city where consensus on anything can be elusive, the poll revealed broad, bipartisan support for returning to the two-term cap: 74 percent of Democrats, 73 percent of Republicans and 72 percent of independents back it.
The poll was conducted Aug. 27 to 31 with 892 adults, 754 of them registered voters. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points.
In follow-up interviews, respondents who endorsed two terms argued that it would force entrenched politicians from office and encourage new people, untainted by money and power, to enter public life.
''The longer most politicians are in office, the more corrupt they get,'' said Ronald Rosen, 69, a retired post office worker in Queens. ''I don't think being a Council member or mayor should be a career job. They're supposed to be people who want to serve the public for about two terms and that's it, you get a new face.''
But several also pointed to their anger with Mr. Bloomberg, who before changing the law had said he would not seek a third term and had called those who previously sought to change the term limits ''disgraceful.''
And the poll suggested that in some ways, it is personal: voters who disapprove of the mayor's handling of city government were more likely to back a limit of two terms over three.
Peter Marsala, 63, who favors a two-term limit, said he had lost faith in Mr. Bloomberg because of the city's high unemployment rate and the mayor's support for a planned Muslim community center in Lower Manhattan. ''When he first came into office, I thought it was a breath of fresh air, but it turns out he is an elitist,'' Mr. Marsala said. ''You can ride the subway all you want, but it does not make you the common man.''
Mr. Marsala, a financial planner who lives in Queens, recalled Mr. Bloomberg's effort to extend term limits with disgust. ''He strong-armed it through,'' he said. ''I didn't appreciate the way he did it.''
Eighty-six percent of those who disapprove of Mr. Bloomberg back a return to two terms, compared with 68 percent of those who approve of him.
Even though emotions still run high over term limits, Mr. Bloomberg remains popular for an incumbent, especially given the harsh political climate: 59 percent of city residents approve of how he is running the city, while 29 percent disapprove.
When he announced his intention to seek a third term in the midst of the financial crisis, the mayor argued that New York City needed his financial expertise, and he explained that his seemingly ironclad support for a two-term limit had evolved.
''You can make that case for two terms or three terms,'' he said at the time. ''In this case after listening to everybody I've been convinced that three terms is right.''
To quell public anger over his decision to change the law through legislation in the City Council, rather than a new public referendum, as many demanded, Mr. Bloomberg pledged to put the issue before voters eventually. Two weeks ago, a commission whose members were appointed by the mayor voted to place the question about term limits on the Nov. 2 ballot.
The commission, however, decided to shield sitting city officials from any change. Under the proposal on the ballot, those already in office would be given a chance to serve three terms even if voters approved a two-term limit.
The Times poll shows that voters overwhelmingly oppose that exemption. Sixty-one percent said that whatever they adopt in November should apply to incumbents, not just newly elected officials; 29 percent think current officeholders should be excluded.
In a follow-up interview, Gayle Borden, 63, a paralegal in Queens, said that if New Yorkers backed a limit of two terms, nobody in elected office should be allowed to exceed it.
Such limits, she said, ''give voters a chance to find out if somebody else can do a better job or add something to the job that's already done.''
For the same reason, she added, ''I think term limits should apply to people already in office.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); TERM LIMITS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



186 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Beach Reads Finished, It's Time for the Big Books

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
If summer is the sleepy season in book publishing, the fall always seems to make up for it.
With Labor Day behind them, publishers are starting to roll out their heavyweight titles, the books sufficiently serious or flashy or important to draw attention in the crowded months leading up to the holidays.
Booksellers love the fall season, having carefully planned months in advance an inventory that this year takes in historical nonfiction and cookbooks, thrillers and memoirs. ''There's a cornucopia of big titles to suit everyone's taste in every category,'' said Lily Bartels, a book buyer at RJ Julia Booksellers in Madison, Conn. 
There are novels by Ken Follett, Michael Cunningham, Nicole Krauss and Tom Clancy; cookbooks by Ina Garten and Jamie Oliver; humor books by both Amy Sedaris and David Sedaris; a collection of poems, notes and letters written by Marilyn Monroe; and a book by the Washington Post investigative reporter Bob Woodward that is so supersecret its publisher, Simon & Schuster, refused to reveal the title. (A Borders executive said that it is ''Obama's War.'')
This fall is especially intense because of the midterm elections, which coincide with a handful of political memoirs, polemics and studies of the Tea Party movement, President Obama and Glenn Beck whose releases have been timed to the weeks before November.
Tony Blair, the former prime minister of Britain, just released ''A Journey'' (Random House), an account of his time in office and its aftermath, and was promptly the target of protesters tossing eggs and flip-flops at his first public reading, in Dublin, on Saturday. Bill O'Reilly, the Fox News commentator, will see his latest political book, ''Pinheads and Patriots'' (William Morrow), published on Sept. 14. Condoleezza Rice, the former secretary of state, has written a memoir of her family and childhood in Alabama, titled ''Extraordinary, Ordinary People'' (Crown Archetype).
Looking back as well, there is Jimmy Carter's account of his presidential years, ''White House Diary'' (Farrar, Straus & Giroux), scheduled for release on Sept. 20; his vice president, Walter Mondale, will follow up with his own, ''The Good Fight'' (Scribner), on Oct. 5. George W. Bush's highly anticipated memoir, ''Decision Points'' (Crown), will be ''the biggest book of the season,'' said Larry Norton, a senior vice president for merchandising at Borders. (According to a USA Today/Gallup poll last week Mr. Bush is still heavily blamed for the country's economic woes. His book will come out a week after the midterms.)
Publishers noted an unusual pile-up of books on musical figures, including ''Frank: The Voice'' (Doubleday), a new biography of Frank Sinatra by James Kaplan; ''Life'' (Little, Brown), a memoir by Keith Richards, the legendary Rolling Stones guitarist, that is widely expected to be a best seller once it is released on Oct. 26; ''Decoded'' (Spiegel & Grau), by Jay-Z; and ''Finishing the Hat'' (Knopf), by Stephen Sondheim, a collection of lyrics (''With Attendant Comments, Principles, Heresies, Grudges, Whines and Anecdotes,'' the subtitle notes); not to mention books by Ricky Martin, Rick Springfield, Susan Boyle and Bret Michaels of Poison.
The fall is really a long lead-in to the holiday season, the period when bookstores see the highest volume of sales for the year.
Publishers will be carefully watching two of the biggest bookstore chains, Barnes & Noble and Borders, which are both having a tumultuous year. Barnes & Noble is in the middle of a proxy fight for control of the company, and Borders has struggled with sales and its digital products.
''The big concern has to be the uncertainty generated by both Barnes & Noble and Borders at this point,'' said Laurence J. Kirshbaum, a literary agent. ''They are such an important part of Christmas, and the industry needs to have two buoyant chains. The independents obviously can pick up some of the slack, and the so-called big-box stores will have a very good fall. But for the vast array of titles beyond best sellers that come out in the fall, the large superstores are critical.''
Of course there is always the sleeper hit. As The New York Observer noted last week, preorders propelled Stephen Hawking's new book, ''The Grand Design'' (Bantam), to the top of the Amazon best-seller list -- past Jonathan Franzen's ''Freedom,'' Suzanne Collins's ''Mockingjay,'' and all three books in the Stieg Larsson ''Millennium'' trilogy -- after excerpts revealed that Mr. Hawking calls God ''redundant.'' And the book wasn't even on sale until Tuesday.
Book buyers, analyzing the lineup of fall titles, said they saw a tendency to play it safe with well-known authors with very big, sure-thing books.
''It's the tried and true,'' said Patricia Bostelman, the vice president for marketing at Barnes & Noble. ''From the science fiction genre and the thriller genre, authors like Tom Clancy who haven't published in a while. It's a very solid season with real sparks.''
Cathy Langer, the lead buyer for the Tattered Cover bookstores in Denver, cited as examples Philip Roth, who has a new novel, ''Nemesis'' (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt), and the latest from ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart,'' ''Earth (The Book)'' (Grand Central Publishing).
''There are a lot of books coming out from writers who traditionally do really well, books that will perform,'' she said. ''Some are fun, like the Jon Stewart and Amy Sedaris, and some of them are a little more thoughtful. I know there's a lot of trepidation with the economy and what's happening with e-books, but I feel like publishers are bringing out some really solid titles that we're going to sell really well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: For booksellers fall is a long lead-in to the holiday season, the period of their highest volume of sales for the year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAKE GUEVARA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (73%); POETRY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BILL O'REILLY (52%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); GLENN BECK (51%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (50%); TONY BLAIR (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



187 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Soros to Donate $100 Million to Rights Group

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
George Soros, the billionaire investor and philanthropist, plans to announce on Tuesday that he is giving $100 million to Human Rights Watch to expand the organization's work globally.
It is the largest gift he has made, the largest gift by far that Human Rights Watch has ever received, and only the second gift of $100 million or more made by an individual this year, according to the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University. ''We're seeing noticeably fewer charitable gifts at the $100 million level from individuals reported than we did just a few years ago,'' said Patrick Rooney, the center's executive director. ''Between 2006 and 2008, an average of about 13 gifts a year of that size by individuals was reported. In 2009, it dropped to six, and this year, we know of only one other.''
The largest known gift in 2010 was $200 million pledged by an anonymous Baylor University graduate, to be dispensed upon the donor's death, for medical research at the university. 
Uncertainty about the direction of the economy has made even the wealthiest individuals more cautious about making big philanthropic commitments, Mr. Rooney said.
Contrariness, however, is a hallmark of Mr. Soros, both as an investor and as a philanthropist. While others have held on to their money, he has made bigger gifts than ever. And he said in an interview that the gift to Human Rights Watch is the first of a series of large gifts that he plans to make.
''This is partly due to age,'' said Mr. Soros, who celebrated his 80th birthday last month. ''Originally I wanted to distribute all of the money during my lifetime, but I have abandoned that plan. My foundation should continue, but I still would like to do a lot of giving during my lifetime, and doing it this way, with such size, is a step in that direction.''
Last year, in the depths of the recession, Mr. Soros gave the Robin Hood Foundation, a charity that fights poverty in New York, a $50 million contribution that helped it raise significantly more than that amount. He also gave every family with children on welfare in New York State $200 to buy school supplies, a grant worth $35 million that enabled the state to gain access to some $175 million in federal money for which it would not otherwise have qualified.
So far this year, Mr. Soros has donated about $700 million to various causes, including the gift to Human Rights Watch. His hedge fund, Quantum Endowment, grew 29 percent in 2009, earning him $3.3 billion in fees and investment gains.
Human Rights Watch will use the gift to add about 120 staff members to its team of 300 around the world, expand translation of its reports and open new offices. The intent, said Kenneth Roth, the advocacy group's executive director, is to increase its influence in emerging power centers. The group, which is based in New York, investigates and draws attention to human rights abuses around the world.
Mr. Roth said that South Africa had more sway in Zimbabwe than the United States and other Western powers. Similarly, India, China and Japan are more influential in Sri Lanka. ''We need to try to generate pressure on those governments, those emerging powers, now, which means expanding our capacity to deploy our information,'' Mr. Roth said.
Mr. Soros put it differently. ''I'm afraid the United States has lost the moral high ground under the Bush administration, but the principles that Human Rights Watch promotes have not lost their universal applicability,'' he said. ''So to be more effective, I think the organization has to be seen as more international, less an American organization.''
He said the gift to the organization was ''also from my heart,'' an acknowledgment of the training in human rights issues and philanthropy that he received from the group when he was just starting to emerge as a major donor.
''Every Wednesday morning at 8 o'clock, a group at Human Rights Watch got together and discussed issues with the managers,'' Mr. Soros recalled. ''I was an active participant in that group, and human rights remains an important element of my foundation's current activities.''
Mr. Roth said few people then knew who Mr. Soros was. ''We were just trying to figure out what we were going to do that week and so on, and he was just a guy at the meeting,'' he said.
The grant is structured as a challenge that asks the group to raise $10 million from new, primarily international sources, each year for the next decade, but Human Right Watch will receive the Soros grant regardless. Roughly 30 percent of its revenue comes from countries other than the United States, but less than 1 percent is from non-Western countries, where much of the organization's work is focused.
Mr. Soros wants to see the organization raise more money in places like Brazil, Mexico, India and China, which will be challenging, Mr. Roth said. ''This is a transformative grant in more than one way for sure,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The philanthropist George Soros said in an interview that the gift to Human Rights Watch is the first in a series of large gifts that he planned to make. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Kenneth Roth, director of Human Rights Watch, which monitors rights abuses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAT ROQUE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CHILD WELFARE (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (94%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



188 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Diamond Is Said to Be Barclays Next Chief

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Barclays of Britain plans to name Robert E. Diamond Jr. as its chief executive as soon as Tuesday, two people briefed on the appointment said Monday.
Mr. Diamond, 59, helped turn Barclays into a global brand with the acquisition of Lehman Brothers' operation in the United States. He was also responsible for much of the bank's international and financial growth in the last decade. He would succeed Barclays' current chief, John Varley. 
Mr. Varley, 54, would leave Barclays at the end of March after a transition period, these people said. They were not allowed to discuss the matter publicly before the formal announcement.
Jerry del Missier and Rich Ricci, co-chief executives for corporate and investment banking at the bank, are to replace Mr. Diamond at the top of Barclays Capital, the securities unit, one person said.
Even though Mr. Diamond, an American, was widely expected to be first in line for the chief executive post, the timing of the change was unexpected. During an earnings presentation last month, Mr. Varley gave no indication that he planned to leave the bank.
Mr. Diamond just completed a large-scale expansion of Barclays Capital that turned the London-based bank into a top player on Wall Street. The expansion included hiring hundreds of staff members in Europe and Asia. In Britain, Barclays faired better than other competitors during the financial crisis and was able to avoid taking state aid. But its shares started to lag recently as some analysts said its heavy reliance on Mr. Diamond's investment banking business for earnings growth would make earnings more volatile. Barclays said last month that profit rose 29 percent in the first half.
Mr. Diamond was responsible for one of the most significant deals for Barclays: the 2008 acquisition of Lehman Brothers' North American investment banking operations. He had previously tried to acquire ABN Amro, a Dutch rival, but lost to a consortium led by the Royal Bank of Scotland. The deal strained R.B.S.'s finances, helping lead to that bank's bailout by the British government.
Mr. Diamond has drawn criticism for his compensation particularly late last year amid populist outrage over bankers' pay. He earned $:15.2 million (about $30 million) in 2006 and $:21 million in 2007, though he declined bonuses for 2008 and 2009.
A hard-charging Massachusetts native and fervent Red Sox fan, Mr. Diamond joined Barclays in 1996 from Credit Suisse, where he was a high-level executive with international experience. He also previously worked at Morgan Stanley as a bond trader.
Mr. Diamond's ambitions to create a major new financial player led to his departure from Morgan Stanley in the first place -- and his poaching of several traders from his former employer angered its senior management.
News of Mr. Diamond's promotion was first reported by The Wall Street Journal online.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert E. Diamond Jr. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MERCHANT BANKING (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); BONDS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); BOND MARKETS (60%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (64%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); RBS (NYSE) (64%); RBS (LSE) (64%); RBS (AMS) (64%); ABO (ASX) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN VARLEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



189 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK COLUMN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Lehman's Last Hours

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
What really happened?
A week from Tuesday will be the second anniversary of Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy and the ensuing panic that helped spawn the deepest recession since the Great Depression. Yet two years on, a mystery remains about the fateful weekend before Lehman's fall.
Last week, during the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission's final hearings, entitled ''Too Big to Fail,'' two competing versions of events were revisited about the last frantic 72 hours of Lehman's life: That the government did not have the legal ''authority'' to rescue the firm or, more conspiratorially, that the firm was knowingly killed because politics made it impossible to save. 
A trove of new e-mails and notes released as part of the commission's investigation may provide a more concrete answer -- one that presents a slightly different version of history than the one the government would have had us believe.
Our leaders at the time -- Ben S. Bernanke, Timothy Geithner and Henry M. Paulson Jr. -- insisted over and over again that they did not have the legal authority to rescue Lehman as they did for Bear Stearns and the American International Group.
That may very well have been true, according to the documents. But they also show that the decision not to lend to Lehman wasn't just a legal issue, it was made against the backdrop of a heated political climate.
The e-mails tell the story:
Jim Wilkinson, chief of staff to the Treasury secretary Paulson, wrote on the morning of Sunday, Sept. 14, 2008, the day Lehman fell: ''No way govt money is coming in ... I'm here writing the usg coms [United States government communications'] plan for orderly unwind ... also just did a call with the WH [White House] and usg is united behind no money. No way in hell Paulson could blink now.''
Kevin Warsh, a Federal Reserve governor, on the evening of Friday, Sept. 12, 2008, wrote to a colleague: ''I hope we don't protect anything.''
Donald Kohn, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, several hours later to Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Warsh: There's a ''strong predilection against by both Treas. and Fed'' providing liquidity to Lehman. ''We're exploring the bankruptcy option as well as way of involving private sector in wind down outside of bankruptcy -- but could give no 100 percent guarantees on what perception of situation would be Sunday evening.''
Lucinda M. Brickler, senior vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, on that same night to another colleague: ''There has also not been much appetite over the past few days for ideas that involve extending public support beyond the existing programs. These issues and speculation about how bankruptcy would likely unfold are the drivers of this thinking.''
Of all the e-mails unearthed from that weekend, however, a two-sentence note from Mr. Bernanke to a colleague on the Sunday night while Lehman was in the process of filing for bankruptcy speaks volumes: ''In case I am asked: How much capital injection would have been needed to keep LEH [Lehman] alive as a going concern? I gather $12B or so from the private guys together with Fed liquidity support was not enough.''
In other words, the chairman of the Federal Reserve didn't even know how much money would have been required to rescue Lehman, even temporarily. (In fairness, he has argued that the ultimate amount of money needed was almost irrelevant because the Fed would have been lending into a ''run on the bank.'')
Of course, the disclosed e-mails were cherry-picked by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission and surely do not provide a complete picture of the discussions in those last 72 hours.
But what is clear is that the politics of the moment played a factor -- or at least was discussed among senior and junior staff -- in the decision not to lend to Lehman Brothers, perhaps the greatest mistake of the crisis.
While there is no question that our leaders at the time worked around the clock to find a private market solution for Lehman -- and I have praised them in this column for staving off another depression in the wake of the panic that followed Lehman's collapse -- its failure should go down in history as a gigantic misstep. (In truth, though, no one has yet to offer up another option for the government.)
In defending its decisions, Thomas C. Baxter Jr., the general counsel of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said at the hearings last week, ''The Federal Reserve did not 'allow' Lehman Brothers to die.''
In an interview, Mr. Paulson acknowledged that many of his colleagues pressed him to make decisions based on politics, but said that ''I never once let politics or public sentiment interfere.'' He added: ''If we could have found a legal means to save them we would have.''
The Fed and Treasury have long contended that they did not have the legal authority to save Lehman. There's truth in that statement. Once the Fed determined that Lehman did not have enough collateral to pay back the loan, the Fed was legally prevented from making the loan.
As Mr. Baxter put it, the Fed had determined that a loan to the firm would have been ''a bridge to nowhere.'' (Lehman may very well have been insolvent, though Richard S. Fuld Jr., the firm's chief, has argued otherwise.)
Still, the Fed's determination of Lehman's ability to survive was ultimately subjective. Phil Angelides, chairman of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission who is no friend of Wall Street, called it a ''conscious policy decision.''
In one curious e-mail that might encapsulate the weekend, Pat Parkinson, then the deputy director of the Fed's research and statistics division, who had been working on contingency plans for Lehman and had suggested a number of ideas that required government assistance, replied to an e-mail from a colleague on Friday night before Lehman fell. ''I have attached some comments, but I am not sure they will be helpful. I'm forced to guess why plans have changed.''
He added at the end of his note, ''In any event, this now looks to me like a god-awful mess.''
The latest news on mergers and acquistions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); POLITICS (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (76%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); KEVIN WARSH (56%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



190 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Rising to the Occasion

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
On Labor Day afternoon in Milwaukee, President Obama finally began to vigorously push the kind of high-profile, rebuild-America infrastructure campaign that is absolutely essential if there is to be any real hope of putting Americans back to work and getting the economy back into reasonable shape over the next few years.
In a speech that was rousing, inspirational and, at times, quite funny, the president outlined a $50 billion proposal for a wide range of improvements to the nation's transportation infrastructure. The money would be used for the construction and rehabilitation of highways, bridges, railroads, airport runways and the air traffic control system. 
Mr. Obama linked the nation's desperate need for jobs to the sorry state of the national infrastructure in a tone that conveyed both passion and empathy, and left me wondering, ''Where has this guy been for the past year and a half?''
After noting that nearly one in five construction workers is unemployed, Mr. Obama told the crowd, ''It doesn't do anybody any good when so many hard-working Americans have been idle for months, even years, at a time when there is so much of America that needs rebuilding.''
The U.S. once had the finest infrastructure in the world, he said, ''and we can have it again.''
The president's plan would include the creation of an infrastructure bank that would use public dollars to leverage private capital for major projects. If properly conceived and executed, the bank could become a crucial factor in financing the nation's long-term infrastructure needs.
It should be kept in mind that Mr. Obama's proposal is only a first step. Despite the $50 billion price tag, it's not in any way commensurate with our overwhelming infrastructure needs or the gruesome scale of the nation's unemployment crisis. But it's an important step. It's a smarter approach to infrastructure investment than the wasteful, haphazard, earmark-laden practices that we've become accustomed to, and it will put some people to work in jobs that pay decent wages.
The details of the proposal are less important than whether the proposal itself is a sign that Mr. Obama and his party are ready, at long last, to engage this awful economy with the sense of urgency and bold initiatives it requires. The plan won't help Democrats in November. It's already too late for that. But a good faith commitment to rebuilding the infrastructure would show that the party has some idea of the scale of the effort that's needed to overcome the worst downturn since the Great Depression and, ultimately, to build an economy that offers the prospect of a decent living to the next couple of generations.
The president was eloquent on these matters in his speech. Speaking of his grandparents' experiences during the 1930s, he said: ''They would tell me about seeing their fathers or uncles losing jobs during the Depression, how it wasn't just the loss of a paycheck that stung. It was the blow to their dignity, their sense of self-worth. I'll bet a lot of us have seen people changed after a long bout of unemployment, how it can wear down even the strongest spirits.''
Leaning toward the microphone, with his shirt collar unbuttoned, Mr. Obama spoke in a way that belied his reputation for aloofness, for struggling to connect in a visceral way with ordinary working people. He was speaking to a pro-Obama labor gathering, so he didn't have to win over the audience. But if his goal was to demonstrate that he genuinely cared about the struggles of the people in the audience and those watching on television -- and about the long-term prospects of their children and grandchildren -- he largely succeeded.
The question that remains, however, is whether he and his party will fight with the skill and tenacity needed to guide his infrastructure proposal to fruition, and whether they will finally focus intensely, as they should have been doing all along, on the difficult but absolutely critical task of putting millions of unemployed Americans back to work.
Mr. Obama seemed to take a wicked, almost Truman-ish delight in going after the Republicans in his speech. It doesn't matter what actions are taken or proposed to help ordinary Americans or to rebuild the economy, he said, ''almost every Republican in Congress says no.''
In fact, he suggested, the Republican Party is committed to saying no to absolutely anything and everything, no matter what the topic: ''If I said the sky was blue, they'd say no. If I said fish live in the sea, they'd say no.''
As if on cue, Republican leaders denounced the president's infrastructure plan as more ''out of control'' Democratic spending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (70%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



191 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: Obama Offers A Transit Plan To Create Jobs

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH; Sheryl Gay Stolberg reported from Milwaukee and Mary Williams Walsh from New York.

 BODY:
MILWAUKEE -- President Obama, looking to stimulate a sluggish economy and create jobs, called Monday for Congress to approve major upgrades to the nation's roads, rail lines and runways -- part of a six-year plan that would cost tens of billions of dollars and create a government-run bank to finance innovative transportation projects.
With Democrats facing an increasingly bleak midterm election season, Mr. Obama used a speech at a union gathering on Labor Day, the traditional start of the campaign season, to outline his plan. It calls for a quick infusion of $50 billion in government spending that White House officials said could spur job growth as early as next year -- if Congress approves.
That is a big if. Though transportation bills usually win bipartisan support, hasty passage of Mr. Obama's plan seems unlikely, given that Congress has only a few weeks of work left before lawmakers return to their districts to campaign and that Republicans are showing little interest in giving Democrats any pre-election victories. 
Central to the plan is the president's call for an ''infrastructure bank,'' which would be run by the government but would pool tax dollars with private investment, the White House says. Mr. Obama embraced the idea as a senator; with unemployment still high despite an array of government efforts, the concept has lately been gaining traction in policy circles and on Capitol Hill.
Indeed, some leading proponents of such a bank -- including Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Republican of California; Gov. Ed Rendell, Democrat of Pennsylvania; and Michael R. Bloomberg, the independent mayor of New York -- would like to see it finance a broader range of projects, including water and clean-energy projects. They say such a bank would spur innovation by allowing a panel of experts to approve projects on merit, rather than having lawmakers simply steer transportation money back home.
''It will change the way Washington spends your tax dollars,'' Mr. Obama said here, ''reforming the haphazard and patchwork way we fund and maintain our infrastructure to focus less on wasteful earmarks and outdated formulas, and more on competition and innovation that gives us the best bang for the buck.''
But the notion of a government-run bank -- indeed, a government-run anything -- is bound to prove contentious during an election year in which voters are furious over bank bailouts and over what many perceive as Mr. Obama pursuing a big government agenda. Even before the announcement Monday, Republicans were expressing caution.
''It's important to keep in mind that increased spending -- no matter the method of delivery -- is not free,'' said Representative Pat Tiberi, an Ohio Republican who is on a Ways and Means subcommittee that held hearings on the bank this year. He warned that ''federally guaranteed borrowing and lending could place taxpayers on the hook should the proposed bank fail.''
The announcement comes after weeks of scrambling by a White House desperate to give a jolt to the lackluster recovery, and is part of a broader package of proposals that Mr. Obama intends to introduce on Wednesday during a speech in Cleveland. The transportation initiative would revise and extend legislation that has lapsed.
Specifically, the president wants to rebuild 150,000 miles of road, lay and maintain 4,000 miles of rail track, restore 150 miles of runways and advance a next-generation air-traffic control system.
The White House did not offer a price tag for the full measure or say how many jobs it would create. If Congress simply reauthorized the expired transportation bill and accounted for inflation, the new measure would cost about $350 billion over the next six years. But Mr. Obama wants to ''frontload'' the new bill with an additional $50 billion in initial investment to generate jobs, and vowed it would be ''fully paid for.'' The White House is proposing to offset the $50 billion by eliminating tax breaks and subsidies for the oil and gas industry.
After months of campaigning on the theme that the president's $787 billion stimulus package was wasteful, Republicans sought Monday to tag the new plan with the stimulus label. The Republican National Committee called it ''stimulus deja vu,'' and Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House Republican whip, characterized it as ''yet another government stimulus effort.''
But Governors Rendell and Schwarzenegger, and Mayor Bloomberg, who in 2008 founded a bipartisan coalition to promote transportation upgrades, praised Mr. Obama. And in policy circles, the plan, especially the call for the infrastructure bank, is generating serious debate.
''This is a very ripe policy question now,'' said Robert Puentes, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution's Metropolitan Policy Program, who has been working for several years on blueprints for a bank.
On Capitol Hill, Representatives James L. Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota and chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, has been developing his own bill, as has Representative Rosa DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut.
Ms. DeLauro's plan would create an infrastructure bank that would be part of the United States Treasury, where it would attract money from institutional investors, then channel the funds to projects selected by a panel. The program, which would make loans much like the World Bank, would finance projects with the potential to transform whole regions, or even the national economy, the way the interstate highway system and the first transcontinental railway once did.
The outside investors would expect a competitive return on their money, so many of the completed projects would have to charge fees, taxes or tolls. In an interview, Ms. DeLauro said she would be ''looking at a broader base,'' meaning the bank would finance not just roads and rails, but also telecommunications, water, drainage, green energy and other large-scale works.
But if the projects did not raise enough money, the Treasury might get stuck paying back the investors, a prospect that gave pause to so-called deficit hawks like Mr. Tiberi. In an e-mail last week, he said he agreed the nation's road and communications networks needed to be improved but was concerned about creating another company like Fannie Mae that might need a bailout.
Inside the White House, the idea for a transportation initiative, and in particular an infrastructure bank, is one that the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, has been promoting. It was not included in the original $787 billion stimulus program because the administration and Congressional Democratic leaders wanted to pass that package as quickly as possible.
There is no shortage of projects in search of money. The problem, analysts say, is that Congress, which would create the bank, is not known for its ability to single out strategic priorities for growth. Instead, it traditionally builds broad support by giving a little something to everybody -- Montana, for instance, would get a small amount of Amtrak money in return for its support for improvements along the Northeast corridor.
''We don't prioritize,'' Mr. Puentes said. ''We take this kind of peanut butter approach of spreading investment dollars around very thinly, without targeting them.''
Samuel Staley, director of urban growth and land-use policy for the Reason Foundation, a libertarian research group, said the best way to spend money efficiently would be to establish the bank as a revolving loan fund so that money for new projects would not become available until money for previous projects had been repaid.
Mr. Staley expressed concern that in their zeal to spur growth and create jobs, Congress and the Obama administration would not impose such limits.
''With the $800 billion stimulus program, they were literally just dumping money into the economy,'' he said. ''There was little legitimate cost-benefit analysis.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama, in Milwaukee on Monday, said his proposal for a public works program ''gives us the best bang for the buck.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 An Amtrak train approaching Newark Penn Station. The president's proposal includes work on 4,000 miles of rail track. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%); US LABOR DAY (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); PATRICK J TIBERI (58%); RICK PERRY (56%); ED RENDELL (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



192 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: In Light European Trading, Markets Make Modest Gains

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
European shares edged higher on Monday, adding to a strong rally last week, with utilities rising after Germany extended the life spans of its nuclear power plants.
Markets in the United States were closed for Labor Day, and volume was light in the markets that were open. 
The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index of top shares rose 0.2 percent, to 1,065.80 points, its highest close since Aug. 9. It rose 3.6 percent last week.
The index moved in a range of just 5.36 points over the session. Volume on the index was just 39.5 percent of its 90-day daily average.
''The markets might go slightly higher, but it is not a great week for economic data or corporate news,'' said Jeremy Batstone-Carr, strategist at Charles Stanley.
Shares of the drug maker GlaxoSmithKline fell amid concerns about its Avandia drug. Its stock fell 1.5 percent after British regulators said the company's diabetes drug Avandia should be pulled from the market because of concerns about heart risks.
Stocks of utility companies were among the top movers. The German companies E.On and RWE both rose 1.8 percent on hopes for billions of euros in extra profit from a decision to extend the life spans of nuclear power plants. Other utilities to gain included the French group GDF Suez, which was up 1.3 percent.
Sentiment among traders remained positive after markets were given a lift on Friday by news that American employment fell less than expected in August and private hiring surprised on the upside.
''We are having a more appropriate response to the some of the news flow, which has actually been quite good,'' said Mike Lenhoff, chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin, ''though there is not a lot to look forward to.''
He added, ''The earnings season is now behind us and there still is the open issue that the Fed might re-engage in quantitative easing. Although the employment figures were better than expected they were still not great.''
In London, the FTSE 100 ended the day 0.2 percent higher; Germany's DAX and France's CAC 40 both rose 0.3 percent.
The Euro Stoxx 50, the euro zone's blue-chip index, rose 0.3 percent, to 2,753.60 points.
BP gained 1.2 percent after the top United States official overseeing the response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill said on Saturday that the ruptured well was secure.
In Japan, the Nikkei closed up 2.05 percent on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US LABOR DAY (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); DIABETES (52%); OIL SPILLS (50%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (83%); GDF SUEZ SA (83%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); BREWIN DOLPHIN HOLDINGS PLC (53%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (83%); GSK (LSE) (83%); BIOC (EGX) (83%); GSZ (PAR) (83%); GSZ (BIT) (83%); PANASONIC (NSE) (72%); BRW (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (83%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (74%); GULF OF MEXICO (65%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



193 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MCCAIN'S SEAT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Corn, One-Liners And Politics on the Side

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

 BODY:
CHINO VALLEY, Ariz. -- The hugely popular Corn Dinner here is in its 64th year, and Carrie Zambrano, as the organizer, sends out invitations to political candidates far and wide offering them the opportunity to serve. Party label means not a thing to her with 6,000 cobs to sling in one night.
''You can tell a lot about someone by how they serve corn,'' she said. ''Do they just say, 'Here it is,' or do they say: 'How are you doing? Would you like another ear?' '' 
One of her most enthusiastic servers on Saturday was Rodney Glassman, a Democrat from Tucson who is not given much of a chance of toppling John McCain, Arizona's senior senator. But when it came to giving out corn, Mr. Glassman was accomplished, which endeared him to what was not an easy crowd.
''People want leaders who will serve them,'' Ms. Zambrano said.
Mr. Glassman, a former Tucson councilman in his first bid for statewide office, strapped on an apron, slipped on a hot mitt and grabbed a vat of ears. He offered up both the corn and himself, and got more takers for the corn, illustrating the challenges that Democrats face in an election season in which the Washington establishment is viewed as being in the mud.
''Some more corn?'' Mr. Glassman asked, working his way down the long picnic benches full of eaters, many of them wearing plastic bibs to keep the piles of beef, coleslaw and corn off their shirts. He received grunt after grunt in the affirmative.
Then he would offer up his candidacy. ''I'm Rodney Glassman, and I'm running for the U.S. Senate,'' he said, giving little hint of the long-shot odds he faces in trying to defeat Mr. McCain, who has a healthy amount of campaign money left over from his failed 2008 presidential bid.
Mr. Glassman heard from voters who were out of work, who were angry at the White House, who were concerned about illegal immigration and who felt that politicians had lost touch with the people who elected them.
''What party are you?'' grumbled John Stropko, a dentist from Prescott. He continued eating while Mr. Glassman gave his spiel that party did not matter all that much in this election and that the issue of reviving the economy was one that rose above partisanship.
Once the candidate had moved on, Mr. Stropko said, ''The biggest problem is he's a Democrat.''
Clarence Preston, 88, a retired AT&T worker from Prescott, quizzed Mr. Glassman on his views on abortion and immigration. Mr. Preston said later that he wished the candidate had been more conservative, but he was willing to at least give him a listen. ''He sounded sincere,'' Mr. Preston said. ''I like that he's here among the common people.''
Mr. Glassman had his lines down pat. If education came up, he would gesture toward his pregnant wife, Sasha, and talk about how, with a little girl on the way, he had an interest in Arizona's future.
''Do you know the definition of insanity?'' he asked. ''It's when you do the same thing over and over and expect a different result.''
He, of course, meant that Mr. McCain keeps getting elected. The prognosticators expect the same result in November. Still, Mr. Glassman worked the crowd as though change was looming.
''Are your hands clean?'' he asked one woman, who nodded as she ate. ''Well, stick your hand in my pocket and take a card.''
Once she had fished out a business card, he had the table roaring when he said, ''I'm the only politician who lets you stick your hand in my pocket instead of the other way around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ARIZONA: The bus carrying Rodney Glassman, a Democrat from Tucson who is challenging Senator John McCain, headed along Highway 89 in Chino Valley on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); IMMIGRATION (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%) ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



194 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Economy Labels

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Cleaner Cars, A to D'' (editorial, Sept. 1), you ably explained the importance of updating the fuel economy labels found on the windows of new cars. 
While the current labels gauge city and highway miles per gallon, a new generation of innovative automobile technology, along with new levels of concern about the environmental impact of auto emissions, make it imperative that consumers have more information. To give them a full range of choices, the Environmental Protection Agency has proposed two possible labels.
But before we can inform consumers, we need them to inform us.
The E.P.A. has made the public comment process to determine the final label easily accessible to every American, right on the E.P.A.'s Web site, www.epa.gov/fueleconomy. The site offers clear pictures of the proposed labels, explanations of the changes, and a comment forum for feedback.
We encourage the public to tell us what information would be useful to them when buying a new car. Updated fuel economy labels could go a long way toward promoting clean air and a healthy planet -- and saving money for American families.
Gina McCarthy Assistant Administrator Office of Air and Radiation Environmental Protection Agency Washington, Sept. 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); AIR QUALITY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



195 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3178 words

HEADLINE: In Feast of Data on BPA Plastic, No Final Answer

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY

 BODY:
The research has been going on for more than 10 years. Studies number in the hundreds. Millions of dollars have been spent. But government health officials still cannot decide whether the chemical bisphenol-A, or BPA, a component of some plastics, is safe. The substance lines most food and drink cans, and is used to make hard, clear plastic bottles, containers and countless other products. Nearly everyone is exposed to it.
Concerns about BPA stem from studies in lab animals and cell cultures showing it can mimic the hormone estrogen. It is considered an ''endocrine disruptor,'' a term applied to chemicals that can act like hormones. But whether it does any harm in people is unclear.
Where science has left a void, politics and marketing have rushed in. A fierce debate has resulted, with one side dismissing the whole idea of endocrine disruptors as junk science and the other regarding BPA as part of a chemical stew that threatens public health. 
About half a dozen states have banned BPA in children's products, and Senator Dianne Feinstein hopes to accomplish the same nationwide, with an amendment to the food safety bill scheduled for a vote in the Senate next week.
This year, a presidential panel on cancer and the environment said there was a ''growing link'' between BPA and several diseases, including cancer, and recommended ways to avoid BPA, like storing water in bottles free of it and not microwaving food in plastic containers. Some cancer experts said the report overstated the case against chemicals, but the concerns it raised seemed to reflect growing public worries.
Consumer fears have made the words ''BPA-free'' a marketing tool. Wal-Mart, Whole Foods, Sears, CVS and other retailers have said they will stop selling baby bottles made with BPA, and major formula and baby-bottle manufacturers have also scrapped it. Worried people have purged their homes of plastics labeled 7. (Products are numbered for recycling; those with BPA carry a 7, but not everything with a 7 contains BPA). Nalgene, which makes popular water bottles, quit using BPA when customers began complaining about it. Sunoco, one of the companies that makes BPA, said it would sell the chemical only to buyers who guaranteed that they would not use it in food or drink containers meant for children.
In May, a White House task force on childhood obesity issued a report suggesting that BPA and certain other chemicals might be acting as ''obesogens'' in children -- promoters of obesity -- by increasing fat cells in the body and altering metabolism and feelings of hunger and fullness.
Perhaps not surprisingly, the issue of whether BPA is safe has become highly partisan.
Environmental groups and many Democrats want BPA banned, blaming it for an array of ills that includes cancer, obesity, infertility and behavior problems. Environmentalists think the United States should adopt the ''precautionary principle,'' a better-safe-than-sorry approach favored in the European Union. The principle says, in essence, that if there are plausible health concerns about a chemical, even if they are not proved, people should not be exposed to it until studies show it is safe. The United States takes the opposite approach: chemicals are not banned unless there is proof of harm.
Many Republicans, anti-regulation activists and the food-packaging and chemical industries insist that BPA is harmless and all but indispensable to keeping canned food safe by sealing the cans and preventing corrosion, and to producing many other products at reasonable prices. They argue that the chemical has been demonized, and that adopting the precautionary principle would lead to needless and ruinously expensive bans on safe and useful products. Both sides are closely watching the issue unfold, because BPA is widely seen as a test case in an era of mounting worry about household chemicals, pollution and the possible links between illness and environmental exposures, especially in fetuses and young children.
''This isn't the only endocrine-disrupting chemical on the block,'' said Patricia Hunt, a biologist at Washington State University, in Pullman. ''It's just the one that's captured the attention, because researchers like me have gotten into the field and gone, 'Holy cats! We're all exposed to this.' There's been a heavy industry response, and we've gathered our forces together a little more strongly to shine a light on it. This is the poster child for this group of chemicals. Academic scientists are saying we need to do something, and we need to do it fast.''
Linda S. Birnbaum, director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (part of the National Institutes of Health), said that a new round of government-financed studies with uniform methods, now under way with animal subjects, should help to resolve unanswered questions. In the meantime, Mrs. Feinstein's ambitious plan to ban BPA from baby bottles, sippy cups, baby food and formula was blocked by partisan battling. She had hoped that the ban would be included in the food safety bill, not merely in an amendment to be considered separately.
But after months of wrangling, she gave up. The food industry, mostly supportive of the food bill, threatened to oppose it if the BPA provision got in. So did many Republican senators. In August, Mrs. Feinstein's Democratic colleague Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan made public a letter in which he urged her to back off on BPA for the sake of the bill, which will broaden the authority of the Food and Drug Administration over the food supply -- a measure widely seen as essential to reducing food-borne illnesses like the recent salmonella outbreak from eggs.
In a statement released in August, Mrs. Feinstein said, ''The Food Safety Bill was the logical place for this legislation, and I have been working hard to reach a compromise, but unfortunately BPA language is not included.''
As an amendment instead of being part of the bill itself, the ban is far less likely to pass the Senate and become law. Last week, the legislature in Mrs. Feinstein's state, California, rejected a BPA ban like the one she is proposing.
Buried in an Avalanche of Data
The mountains of data produced so far show conflicting results as to whether BPA is dangerous, in part because different laboratories have studied the chemical in different ways. Animal strains, doses, methods of exposure and the results being measured -- as crude as body weight or as delicate as gene expression in the brain -- have all varied, making it difficult or impossible to reconcile the findings. In science, no experiment is taken seriously unless other researchers can reproduce it, and difficulties in matching BPA studies have led to fireworks.
John A. Katzenellenbogen, a chemistry professor at the University of Illinois in Urbana, and an expert on how hormones works in cells, does not work with BPA but said he had seen researchers who study it argue bitterly at conferences, over supposedly identical experiments that had somehow yielded opposite results.
At one such meeting, scientists in the audience said, ''We don't want to hear you two speak until you get this straightened out,'' he recalled.
''I'm interested, and despite the fact that I know a lot about this, somewhat bewildered at the discordances in reports,'' Dr. Katzenellenbogen said.
Dr. Birnbaum said, ''I think we need to lower the tenor of the discourse and look at what the research really is,'' and added that researchers who clash over conflicting results may actually have done different experiments.
The new, government-financed studies will try to determine whether BPA can play a role in obesity, diabetes, breast and prostate cancer and disorders of the developing immune, cardiovascular and nervous systems. Dr. Birnbaum said researchers would be looking for effects on learning and behavior, and also trying to find out whether there are ''multigenerational'' effects, meaning that exposure in a pregnant animal can affect her offspring and the next generations as well.
How could one substance possibly have so many different effects?
''What's estrogen associated with?'' Dr. Birnbaum asked. ''Breast cancer, uterine cancer, obesity, behavior, the immune system. If BPA can have some estrogeniclike properties, it is scientifically plausible that it might have a wide spectrum of effects. We need to move beyond the idea that an environmental chemical or a drug is only going to do one thing, and need to understand that what happens to an infant may be different from what happens to an adult.''
The results from the new round of studies are not expected for at least two years. ''We are in some ways using BPA as a model for an endocrine-disrupting compound,'' she said. ''What can happen when you perturb fundamental homeostatic processes in the body?''
Impersonating Hormones?
The idea that drugs or chemicals could act like hormones has been around for decades, but advocacy campaigns in the 1990s drew public attention to the issue. Such effects can be subtle and delayed. Hormones act on receptors in cells, structures to which they attach -- the standard comparison is lock and key -- and orchestrate growth, differentiation and all sorts of biochemical activities. Many cells have receptors for estrogen, and BPA can bind to those receptors, though far less strongly than the body's own estrogen can.
R. Thomas Zoeller, a biology professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, said BPA could also bind to receptors for male hormone and thyroid hormone.
''I don't know of a single other molecule that does this,'' Dr. Zoeller said.
In people, the most notorious example of an endocrine disruptor is the drug diethylstilbestrol, or DES, which was given to pregnant women in the 1950s in the mistaken belief that it could prevent miscarriage. The drug turned out to be a disaster, causing vaginal cancers and reproductive problems in some of the women's daughters, and abnormalities in the reproductive organs in some sons. But DES is a far stronger estrogen mimic than is BPA, and women were exposed to much higher levels of it.
Animal studies during the past decade or so began raising concerns about BPA, which is used to harden polycarbonate, a clear plastic that makes nice-looking food containers, bottles and sippy cups. It has been widely used since the 1960s and is also in some medical devices, dental sealants, thermal paper for cash register receipts and the epoxy resin that lines most food and drink cans. The United States produces about a million tons of it a year.
BPA is in people, too. Small amounts leach out of plastics and seep into the body. In 2008, a government study of 2,517 people age 6 and older found that 93 percent had BPA in their urine. Children had higher levels than adults, and other studies have detected the chemical in umbilical cord blood in newborns.
Studies show that in adults, BPA is eliminated from the body in hours; children take longer to get rid of it. But scientists say that finding it consistently in so many people suggests that the public is being exposed continuously. The main route by which people are taking it in is not known.
Just finding a chemical in people does not mean it is doing any damage, and there is no definitive proof that BPA harms humans. Research in adults has found that higher BPA levels in urine are associated with an increased risk of heart and liver disease, but the studies do not prove cause and effect, because they merely observed correlations, which could have been coincidental.
It would be unethical to experiment on people by giving them BPA, so researchers use rodents, and say the results are relevant to people. Dr. Daniel R. Doerge, who studies BPA at the National Center for Toxicological Research in Jefferson, Ark. (part of the F.D.A.), says, ''Animal studies are the cornerstone of all our drug and environmental risk assessment for humans.''
The animal studies have led the National Toxicology Program and the Food and Drug Administration to express ''some concern about the potential effects of BPA on the brain, behavior and prostate gland of fetuses, infants and children.'' (''Some'' concern is the midpoint on a five-level scale, ranging from ''negligible'' to ''serious.'') The National Toxicology Program also says, ''The possibility that BPA may affect human development cannot be dismissed.'' The Environmental Protection Agency says, ''There are questions about its potential impact, particularly on children's health and the environment.''
The F.D.A. says that infants are ''a potentially sensitive population for BPA'' because their brains and endocrine systems are still developing, and their livers are less efficient than adults' at detoxifying and eliminating foreign substances. The drug agency has taken a seemingly paradoxical position, on the one hand saying there is no evidence of harm in humans, and on the other supporting industry actions to get BPA out of baby bottles and feeding cups, and to find alternative liners for food and formula cans. Bottle-makers have found substitutes, but can producers say there is nothing like BPA. Only a few companies are offering BPA-free cans.
Reconciling Disparate Studies
Most of the evidence against BPA comes from studies that find harmful effects in rats and mice at low doses comparable to the levels to which people are exposed. Sometimes the results seem downright weird, indicating that low doses could be worse than higher ones. There is sharp disagreement among scientists about how to interpret some research. The disputes arise in part because scientists from different disciplines -- endocrinologists versus toxicologists, academic researchers versus those at regulatory agencies -- do research in different ways that can make findings hard to reconcile.
The biggest unanswered question is whether low doses -- the kind to which most people are exposed -- can have lasting, harmful effects in fetuses and young children. Dr. Birnbaum said it was crucial to find out for sure whether the low-dose effects in animals really occur. ''We have hundreds of studies that show they do, and then some that don't,'' she said.
She and other scientists said studies by university labs tended to find low-dose effects, and studies by government regulatory agencies and industry tended not to find them. The split occurs in part because the studies are done differently. Universities, Dr. Birnbaum said, ''have moved rapidly ahead with advances in science,'' while regulators have used ''older methods.'' Some researchers consider the regulatory studies more reliable because they generally use much larger numbers of animals and adhere to formal guidelines called ''good laboratory practices,'' but Dr. Birnbaum described those practices as ''good record-keeping'' and said, ''That doesn't mean the right questions were being asked.''
The low-dose studies are newer and have raised safety issues that need to be resolved, she said. Last year, a scientific group called the Endocrine Society issued a 34-page report expressing serious concerns about endocrine-disrupting compounds, including BPA, dioxins, PCBs, DDT, the plasticizers known as phthalates and DES.
The society has about 14,000 members from more than 100 countries, who work in medicine, biology, genetics, immunology, industry and other areas.
The report said there was strong evidence that endocrine disruptors could harm the reproductive system, causing malformations, infertility and cancer. It noted that the chemicals could affect all endocrine systems, and said there was mounting evidence for effects on the thyroid gland, brain, obesity and metabolism, and the body's ability to regulate insulin and glucose levels. It also said that fetuses exposed to chemicals in the womb could experience effects later in life, and pass those abnormalities to future generations.
Scientists call such effects ''the fetal basis of adult disease,'' and say they probably result from epigenetic changes -- meaning that the chemicals alter the functioning of genes, turning them on or off, but do not cause mutations, which are changes in the actual structure of the genes. Some scientists said that they had doubted that low doses could cause harm, but changed their minds after seeing the data.
''I was skeptical that there were effects that were repeatable,'' said Gail S. Prins, a professor of physiology at the University of Illinois at Chicago, and an author of the Endocrine Society's report. But in 2001 she was part of a panel that analyzed dozens of BPA studies for the National Toxicology Program. The panel had its own statistician reanalyze raw data from the studies to find out if the claims based on it were valid.
''I could see there was some consistent data,'' Dr. Prins said. ''I started thinking, 'Hmm, maybe there could be something there.' It was still curious to me. This is not a regular toxicant. It's acting like a hormone, and hormones can act at extremely low doses. If you think the dose makes the poison, it doesn't make sense. But if you think about it as a hormone -- and I'm an endocrinologist -- it does make sense.''
Her lab is one of the 10 that have received government grants under the economic Recovery Act to study BPA. She is analyzing its effects on the prostate in young mice and rats, and also in rats that have been implanted with human prostate cells. The work is being conducted under strict guidelines set by the National Institutes of Health, to make sure that the results of different groups will be reconcilable.
''This time N.I.H. said, 'You all have to do oral exposures, and we'll give you BPA from one source,' '' Dr. Prins said. ''We're all working with one batch. We all have to measure free and conjugated BPA levels in our model systems, and it has to be done in a certified lab so that our data will be more aligned. It does make a lot of sense to go about doing it this way, and it hasn't compromised anything I'm doing.''
There is no practical way to do these studies except in rodents, she emphasized. ''I can't look at early-life exposures and prostate risk in humans,'' Dr. Prins said. ''I can't do it in my lifetime even if I start now. Likewise I can't take men who currently have prostate cancer and see what their BPA levels were when they were born.''
Over the next few years, researchers hope to bring coherence to this confused and troubled field.
''This is a chemical we're all exposed to, and I think that makes it incumbent upon us to study it,'' Dr. Birnbaum said. ''We really need to know what it might be doing, if anything.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about efforts to determine the safety of bisphenol-A, or BPA, a chemical component of some plastics, described the history of such research incorrectly. The idea that drugs or chemicals could act like hormones has been around for decades, but advocacy campaigns in the 1990s drew public attention to the issue; the idea did not emerge in the 1990s.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TESTING: Rat prostate cells under a microscope, top, that have been exposed to BPA, and dayold mice, above, are used at the University of Illinois at Chicago to study the effects of BPA. (D1)
RAT STUDIES: Scientists at the University of Illinois at Chicago study rodents and say the results are relevant to people. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MEALTIME: A monitor in Dr. Prins's lab showed a day-old mouse being fed BPA. In humans, the chemical remains in children longer than in adults.
BPA GRANT: Gail Prins, a physiologist at the University of Illinois at Chicago, studies the effects of BPA. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT L. VOGELZANG)
PRODUCT LINE: BornFree makes BPA-free baby bottles and cups. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BORNFREE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 CHEMICAL FREE: Toys made of recycled plastic by Green Toys at a trade show. The company says it does not use BPA. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) (D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BISPHENOL A (94%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (90%); OBESITY (89%); PLASTIC BOTTLE MFG (89%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (89%); CANCER (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); CHILDREN (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLASTIC BOTTLES (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (77%); FOOD SAFETY (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE PACKAGING (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BIOCHEMISTRY (75%); POLITICS (74%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (72%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (70%); RETAILERS (64%)

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010



196 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; OBAMA'S OLD SEAT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Fed Up With Politics, And With Politicians

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
NAPERVILLE, Ill. -- From a tiny booth at a festival here, a radio station host gave Representative Mark Steven Kirk, the Republican candidate for Senate, a moment to make his pitch between plugs for free massages and the corn dogs being sold a few booths away.
''I'm the candidate who wants to spend less, borrow less, tax less'' was all Mr. Kirk had time to blurt out. 
Then again, judging from a sampling of those who encountered Mr. Kirk here, at this Chicago suburb's Last Fling celebration on Sunday, it might have been enough. In fact, there might have been something to lose with even a word more.
Voters along these streets, which smelled of fried dough and clanged with carnival rides, seemed to share a mood about the coming elections: a low-grade grumpiness toward anyone who has anything to do with politics, an exasperation with the string of corruption claims that have dogged leaders from Illinois and, most of all, an obsession with finding a cure for the nation's economic tumult.
''I'm getting sick and tired of the politics -- just get the job done,'' Cliff Olszewski, 50, a civil engineer, said after Mr. Kirk had shaken his hand and walked on.
In this close fight for the Senate seat once held by President Obama, Mr. Olszewski and his wife, Mary, described themselves as reliable Republicans who cast their first votes for a Democrat in 2004 (and again in 2008), for Mr. Obama. Mr. Olszewski is part of a crucial -- and, polls show, remarkably large -- group in the race between Mr. Kirk and his Democratic opponent, Alexi Giannoulias: the undecided.
The landscape is complicated. Republicans hold no statewide offices in Illinois, and Mr. Obama remains, even in Mr. Kirk's estimation, ''personally popular'' in his home state.
And yet, the previous governor, Rod R. Blagojevich, a Democrat, was impeached over accusations that he tried to sell the Senate seat at issue in this campaign, and the current governor, Pat Quinn, another Democrat, finds himself locked in a tight race.
''What surprises me is, it used to be when voters asked what party you were from, if you said Republican, they were done,'' Mr. Kirk said as he wandered the festival with A. George Pradel, the longtime mayor of Naperville, who was once a police officer here and who was instantly recognized by many who gazed blankly at Mr. Kirk. ''Now, if you say Republican, it's almost like, 'Hey, O.K., I'm voting!' ''
In this traditionally Republican part of the state, the ferocity of anger at the Democratic Party felt particularly pronounced.
In Frankfort, another suburb where Mr. Kirk appeared in a parade earlier Sunday, Keith Blais called for an end ''to the same old Chicago crap'' in politics and yelled to Mr. Kirk, ''Take Congress back -- take it all the way back!''
Sharon Wasko said everyone in Washington should be fired, adding, ''they're too old -- they don't belong there anymore.''
None of which is to say that Mr. Kirk, a moderate Republican (who, Ms. Wasko may wish to know, is in his fifth term in the House), has a simple task. Along with calls of encouragement, Mr. Kirk was greeted with other tones as well: ''RINO!'' one man yelled (a pejorative acronym for Republican In Name Only), while another called out, ''The lesser of two evils!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ILLINOIS: Representative Mark Steven Kirk, a Republican, at a Labor Day parade on Sunday in Frankfort. Mr. Kirk is running for the Senate seat once held by President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (73%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); BLAGOJEVICH CORRUPTION SCANDAL (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SUBURBS (70%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); CORRUPTION (67%); US PRESIDENTS (65%)

PERSON: MARK STEVEN KIRK (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAT QUINN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



197 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: To Spur Economy, Obama Backs Business Write-Offs

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As part of his emerging program to jolt the economic recovery from its stall, President Obama will call this week for allowing businesses to deduct from their taxes through 2011 the full value of new equipment purchase, from computers to utility generators, to increase demand for goods and create jobs.
The upfront deduction would allow businesses of all sizes to keep more money now and would give large corporations, many of which are sitting on cash because of uncertainty about the economy, an incentive to spend and invest. 
It would cost an estimated $200 billion in revenues, though the ultimate net loss would be $30 billion over 10 years, administration officials say, since businesses would eventually deduct the depreciated value of the equipment in any case.
The proposal for 100 percent expensing through 2011 will be part of a package that Mr. Obama will outline on Wednesday in Cleveland in a speech on the economy.
The stimulus initiative will also include proposals for an additional $50 billion for infrastructure investments and a new infrastructure bank for projects over the long term, which Mr. Obama described at a Labor Day event in Wisconsin on Monday.
And it will have a provision to expand and make permanent a tax credit for corporations' research and development expenses; for three decades, the credit has been enacted temporarily, given its revenue cost, and then always extended, but with frequent lapses that frustrate businesses.
Those ideas and others that Mr. Obama may propose on Wednesday have been under consideration at the White House for some time. But August's mix of disappointing economic data and deteriorating poll numbers for Democrats heading into the midterm elections prompted the president, with evident impatience, to publicly press his economic team to quickly produce options that could help the economy without excessively increasing the debt.
Though liberal and labor groups have been agitating for public works spending, Mr. Obama and his advisers are emphasizing business tax cuts in hopes of drawing Republican support -- or, failing that, to show that Republicans are so determined to thwart Mr. Obama that they will oppose even ideas that they and most business groups, like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, advocate.
A draft paper on the proposal permitting businesses to write off the full costs of capital spending in 2010 and 2011 said it ''would be the largest temporary investment incentive in American history.''
Stimulus measures enacted at the end of the Bush administration and continued in 2009 allowed businesses to depreciate 50 percent of qualified investments. A separate administration proposal to benefit small businesses with tax cuts and loans, which has been pending in Congress much of the year and remains blocked by Republicans in the Senate, would extend this smaller tax break through 2010.
Mr. Obama would expand this to 100 percent through 2011 and make it effective retroactive to this Wednesday, regardless of when Congress might approve the proposal.
According to the draft description from the administration, the proposal ''would put nearly $200 billion in the hands of businesses over the next two years -- helping companies that make new investments in the United States at a time they need it most.''
But, it added: ''Most of this relief would be recouped by the Treasury as businesses regain their strength. Specifically, businesses would get the upfront deduction for their investment -- now when they most need it -- but would give up their future annual depreciation allowances in future years when the economy is stronger.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); DEPRECIATION (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); US LABOR DAY (66%); HISTORY (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



198 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Government Promises to Lend Troubled Bank 'as Much as It Wants'

BYLINE: By ADAM B. ELLICK and SANGAR RAHIMI; Sharifullah Sahak contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- The chairman of the Central Bank of Afghanistan promised Monday to lend the embattled Kabul Bank ''as much as it wants'' to stave off a collapse, even as he continued to insist that the bank was solvent.
The chairman, Abdul Qadir Fitrat, said Kabul Bank was meeting the demands of customers ''with its own resources,'' though he said he did not know how much money had been withdrawn from the private bank over the past few days. The frenzied rush of customers trying to empty their savings accounts at its largest branch tapered off slightly on Monday, though security remained tight. 
Economic and political analysts say the government is buying time while it decides how to handle the politically treacherous predicament that erupted with the discovery last week that Kabul Bank had suffered huge losses after lending money to allies of President Hamid Karzai and pouring millions of dollars into risky real estate investments in Dubai.
The president, who has recently been more vocal in vowing to fight corruption, will be reluctant to arrest the bank's top shareholders, who include one of his brothers and other close allies, or to seize their overseas properties that were bought with borrowed money that belonged to ''some of the poorest people in the world,'' as one economist described the roughly $300 million in losses from the bank.
He would more likely use reserve funds to bail out Kabul Bank, the analysts said. On Monday, the Central Bank pledged its full support to Kabul Bank, saying ''if necessary, it is ready to loan Kabul Bank as much as it wants.''
For Mr. Karzai, a bailout presents a different but equally vexing problem. While a bailout could be hailed in Afghanistan as the government's attempt to guarantee the people's money, it would do little to deter the kinds of abuses that led to the crisis in the first place and would probably increase tensions with its Western partners, who would be indirectly financing the intervention, economists said.
If such a move takes place, the money will most likely come from Afghanistan's reserve funds in the United States, which are earmarked for a currency crisis and not meant to bail out private banks.
Any intervention by the United States could be seen as politically dangerous for the Obama administration, which has distanced itself from Mr. Karzai. The United States has denied that it would provide any financial support in the crisis, but economists in Kabul say that even reserve funds have roots in donor money. Almost all money belonging to Afghanistan, they say, is donor money.
''Karzai doesn't know what to do,'' said an economist, who asked not to be identified for fear of inserting himself into the conflict. ''Will he have courage to put them in jail and pay the people? And if not, shareholders will continue living in luxury villas in Dubai, and that's suicide for him.''
Mr. Karzai's best hope, experts say, is that the bank will be able to weather the storm itself. On Monday the Central Bank's chairman, Mr. Fitrat, said that the situation at Kabul Bank was ''almost normal'' and that no customers had left without money, since the bank had a healthy liquidity of 40 percent.
He said that the bank had received more than $38 million in deposits since the outbreak of the crisis and that the figure was increasing daily. But analysts said those were mostly corporate deposits.
When asked about the amount withdrawn by nervous depositors since the crisis, Mr. Fitrat said that he did not know the figure, but that it was ''more than usual.''
The Central Bank on Sunday froze properties in Kabul owned by major Kabul Bank shareholders, including Sherkhan Farnood, the former chairman, and Khalilullah Frozi, the former chief executive, who were dismissed last week as news of the bank's losses broke.
Those properties are rather insignificant compared with the luxury villas in Dubai, where shareholders hold far more lucrative investments directly linked to the losses from Kabul Bank.
The list of frozen properties in Kabul did not include any owned by the president's brother, who is a major shareholder. Mr. Fitrat said the list included only the names of those who had borrowed the money from the bank.
For the second day in a row, barbed wire and armed guards belonging to Afghanistan's national intelligence agency were in front of the bank. Inside, a bank employee said the number of visitors was lower than it had been in previous days.
By late afternoon, about 1,200 customers had entered the bank, a daily rate of about 500 fewer than during last week. Some customers said they were unable to withdraw more than $10,000.
Bank officials said the flow of customers at the bank was part of the normal flow of government employees who were receiving their salaries before Id al-Fitr, the Islamic holiday that marks the end of Ramadan, the holy month of fasting.
Mr. Fitrat is one many banking officials who is accusing Western news media of stoking public fears and distrust in the bank. On Monday he encouraged the Afghan media not to translate the ''false news'' of Western media outlets, but he did not specify criticisms of the foreign press.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); POLITICS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ARRESTS (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (67%); CORRUPTION (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010



199 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Orlando's Newest Attraction Is Medical

BYLINE: By JONATHAN VATNER

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. -- Just off State Road 417, a five-minute drive east from Orlando International Airport, a 650-acre parcel of land is fast becoming a $2 billion medical campus, including a medical school, research laboratories and hospitals.
Three years ago the Lake Nona medical city, as it is known, was nothing but a pasture and a promise. Its accelerated creation is the product of hundreds of millions of dollars in government, nonprofit and private investment at a time when Florida's housing-based economy has been spiraling downward. 
''We are working at warp speed here,'' said Dr. Deborah C. German, the dean of the College of Medicine at the University of Central Florida, which opened on the Lake Nona campus last month. ''Three and a half years ago, the architects weren't even chosen. Now it's fully operational.''
The history of this ''city'' began with a missed opportunity. In 2003, Jeb Bush, the governor at the time, announced plans to court large biomedical companies with government incentives, in an effort to attract higher-paying jobs to Florida. The Scripps Research Institute, based in the La Jolla area of San Diego, accepted $579 million in grants to open a location in Florida.
Orlando business leaders argued that the city would be an ideal place for the Scripps research park, especially the area around Lake Nona, in the relatively undeveloped southeastern quadrant of the city. Except for the Lake Nona Golf and Country Club, a gated community with a golf course by the noted designer Tom Fazio, most of the land sat empty, dotted with a smattering of cows left there for tax reasons (agricultural land in Florida is taxed minimally).
The Tavistock Group, which owns the country club and much of the empty land, set aside about 650 acres for a planned medical city, complete with retail stores and housing. ''It's close to the airport and it has good weather,'' Dr. German said. ''And there are resorts for kids.''
Orlando was already a major draw for doctors. It was the No. 1 destination averaged over the past 13 years by the Healthcare Convention and Exhibitors Association. ''Orlando is a destination for relatively half the medical meetings in the U.S.,'' said Eric Ushkowitz, director of BioOrlando, a unit of the Metro Orlando Economic Development Commission.
But Orlando lost the Scripps deal to Jupiter, Fla., a decision it said was due in part to its lack of a medical school, a crucial breeding ground for scientists and the core of any medical campus. So three years later, when the Burnham Institute for Medical Research agreed to build in Florida in exchange for a $310 million incentive package, Orlando's chances improved when the University of Central Florida agreed to build its medical school at Lake Nona.
The Tavistock Group donated a portion of the 650-acre parcel for the institution to build on, and enough money was raised from the local community to pay tuition and living expenses for all 41 members of the charter class. That financing put the medical school on the map.
The medical school should be appealing to future classes for other reasons. The library, for example, has beautiful views and a notable absence of books. Students are instead given Apple iPods with access to online databases.
As soon as the medical school was approved in 2006, the Burnham Institute (now called the Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute after a recent $50 million donation by the billionaire T. Denny Sanford) chose Lake Nona for its new home. The building, which opened last year, contains one of the country's few robotic high-throughput screening centers -- machines that can run a huge number of biological tests very quickly.
Even so, $310 million was a large amount of government spending for just 300 well-paying scientist jobs. Adding up all the life-sciences incentives that Florida doled out, the total far exceeded a billion dollars. When the economy faltered, those incentives all but dried up. If the Sanford-Burnham Institute and the College of Medicine could not attract further development, the incentive money would not have been justified.
''We can't spend another billion dollars to recruit research institutes,'' Mr. Ushkowitz said.
So far the gamble has paid off. The announcements of the medical school and research institute began the hoped-for clustering effect, in which a variety of medical institutions scooped up neighboring plots to foster collaboration.
The M.D. Anderson Cancer Center Orlando rented lab space at one of the medical school buildings. A Veterans Affairs hospital is being built, along with a V.A. medical simulation training center. The University of Florida will open a research laboratory, and four incubator buildings for start-up biotech companies are in planning stages.
Also, Nemours, a children's health care provider with a hospital in Wilmington, Del., and clinics in Florida, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, had bought land for a hospital elsewhere in Orlando in 2006 before it heard about the medical city. Those plans were scrapped and in 2009 the hospital broke ground at Lake Nona. The hospital, which plans to make use of Orlando's warm weather with rooftop healing gardens, will open in 2012. Ronald McDonald House Charities is also considering opening a facility on hospital grounds.
''A lot of Sanford-Burnham researchers have similar interests with ours,'' said Roger Oxendale, the chief executive of Nemours. ''A lot of the questions they'll be asking about diabetes and obesity, they'll be asking with respect to childhood diseases. I think we haven't realized the potential of these partnerships.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 10, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on the Square Feet page on Wednesday about the growth of a medical campus in Orlando, Fla., misstated the city's ranking as a destination for medical meetings. It was the No. 1 destination averaged over the past 13 years, not 13 years in a row, according to the Healthcare Convention and Exhibitors Association.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric Ushkowitz of BioOrlando with Dr. Deborah C. German, dean of the medical school. ''We are working at warp speed here,'' Dr. German said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); BIOMEDICINE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); GOLF (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (53%); RETAILERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (99%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010



200 of 844 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 762 words

PERSON: Virginia B. Smith 

HEADLINE: Virginia Smith, 87, Higher Education Leader

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Virginia B. Smith, a lawyer and economist who helped shape the contours of higher education as president of Vassar College, as a high public official in Washington and as a member of influential private research groups, died on Aug. 27 in Alamo, Calif. She was 87.
Her death was announced by the college. 
As president of Vassar, in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., from 1977 to 1986, Ms. Smith led a $100 million fund-raising drive, recruited students from community colleges, increased the endowment, raised faculty salaries and reinforced the college's commitment to minorities.
More broadly, she worked to increase public support for higher education and to extend its benefits beyond traditional elites, goals that have been addressed by steady increases in federal and state financial aid and, most recently, by President Obama's support for community colleges.
Terry W. Hartle, senior vice president of the American Council on Education, which represents 2,000 colleges and universities, said Ms. Smith had climbed an uphill road.
''At a time when many educators assumed that high-quality education and widespread access to it were mutually exclusive, she devoted her career on and off the campus to proving them wrong,'' he said. ''It was the combination of things she did, her leadership in every position she held.''
Ms. Smith was chosen to lead Vassar from among 450 candidates for the job partly because she had a strong vision for using the Vassar presidency as a model of innovation for American higher education, said Elizabeth Runkle Purcell, who was chairwoman of the selection committee.
Ms. Smith arrived at her commitment to educational reform by apprenticing with Clark Kerr, the former president of the University of California system, who was known for trying to meld low-cost and high-quality education. In 1952 Mr. Kerr asked Ms. Smith, one of his former economics students, to join the Institute of Industrial Relations, which he had founded at the University of California, Berkeley, as an instructor and director of public programs.
After Mr. Kerr became president of the California system in 1958, he again recruited Ms. Smith, who had been on a leave of absence to study trade union education in England. In 1965 she was named as an assistant vice president of the entire university, the first woman to hold that appointment.
In 1967 Ms. Smith joined the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education as a researcher and later became its associate director. The commission, led by Mr. Kerr, made recommendations that continue to be influential, including ones on how better to categorize colleges and universities.
In 1973, President Richard M. Nixon named Ms. Smith the founding director of the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education, a part of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. With a board of advisers, she dispensed $43 million in grants to 340 projects.
In 1975, Change magazine, which covers higher education, included Ms. Smith among the 44 most important leaders in higher education in the United States.
Ms. Smith's appointment as the eighth Vassar president was announced in April 1977. When The New York Times asked her why she had been chosen, she replied matter-of-factly, ''Because I was the best qualified.''
Ms. Smith was the second woman to run the college and the first one to arrive there after it had become coeducational. The first male exchange students had come to Vassar in 1969 and the first freshmen the next year. Around 41 percent of Vassar students were men at the end of Ms. Smith's presidency in 1986.
Virginia Beatrice Smith was born in Seattle on June 24, 1923, one of six children of a tool-and-die operator. She earned bachelor's, master's and law degrees from the University of Washington. She taught economics at what are now the University of Puget Sound and Seattle Pacific University.
Ms. Smith is survived by her partner of 57 years, Florence Oaks; her sister, Bessie Francis; and her brother, Frank.
In 1990, she came out of retirement for a year to be acting president of Mills College, a traditionally all-women college in Oakland, Calif., after the trustees' decision to admit men had set off protests on campus. The trustees reversed their decision, and Ms. Smith, despite the Vassar precedent, applauded.
''The environment provides a special freedom of development,'' she said of women-only education, at least at Mills. ''Anyone who has had contact with women's education knows it's a different process. It would be great if, at some point, every woman could have some of this -- sense the freedom of it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Virginia B. Smith (PHOTOGRAPH BY VASSAR COLLEGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (56%)

BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (52%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

 
