

601 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 13; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Parents as Leaders, Using the Systems

BYLINE: By MELINDA TUHUS 

 BODY:
AMID all the bad news of family and societal breakdown in millennial America, the Parent Leadership Training Institute is on the case: helping parents become advocates for their children.
The institute, which was founded in Hartford in 1991, wound up its first class in New Haven with a graduation last Monday. At a pregraduation session, parents traded success stories: one received an award from her child's school, another had had a letter published in the local newspaper, a third announced a scheduled meeting with the Mayor of New Haven to discuss issues of concern to parents. 
 This is not a parenting class in the usual sense of the term. "Direct parenting skills are more of a secondary gain," says Barbara Tinney, executive director of the New Haven Family Alliance, which is the lead agency for the training program in New Haven. "The primary gain is to be advocates for children and to understand the macro-level issues" of how social and political institutions function and how parents can have an impact on them.
This class includes 20 parents of diverse backgrounds, because, says Ms. Tinney, "We want them to learn that regardless of differences, they have a lot in common." Students are black, Hispanic and white; single, married and divorced, and include foster parents and grandparents. They are of varying socio-economic backgrounds from eight New Haven neighborhoods as well as from North Haven, Hamden and Shelton. They range in age from their 20's through their 50's, and include 2 fathers and 18 mothers.
The state's Commission on Children initiated the first Parent Leadership Training Institute with help from the American Leadership Forum. The first 10-session curriculum focused on leadership development and was designed by the commission's executive director Elaine Zimmerman and two Windham teachers, Catina Caban-Owen and Igor Espitiia.
"It went very well," says Ms. Tinney, "but parents said they needed information on the systems parents interact with, so the next 10 weeks were added." This civics portion of the program includes a practicum, in which each member of the class identifies an issue she or he feels passionate about. "They design the practicum to move the issue forward, hopefully to something they can implement in their communities," she adds.
For example, one mother in the Hartford training program identified a neighborhood library that was scheduled to close. She was able to keep it open. Another organized a program for children being raised by grandparents.
While New Haven class members have not yet completed the practicum portion of their training, they have identified such wide-ranging topics as voluntary prayer in schools, a family reading program, and an elementary school level drug prevention program.
Parents help define the curriculum and participate in program evaluation. Graduates serve as mentors to the succeeding class. Each of the 20 sessions works toward a specific goal: diversity; how change takes place within oneself, the family and the community; conflict resolution; community assets; how city, state and school systems work; becoming media literate; public speaking; public policy as a vehicle for democracy, citizen input and change for children; how laws are made, and outcomes and accountability.
Ms. Tinney works with a team of 25 volunteers from the public and private sectors to design the curriculum and formulate the desired outcomes. "I think it is one of the most well-developed, outcome-oriented, capacity-building initiatives that I have seen ," she says.
The application process is competitive. Recruitment is through community groups, schools and existing parent organizations. Many, but not all, of the parents who are chosen are already parent leaders at some level. "We look for a mix of some parents who have already demonstrated the desire to be on the forefront of children's issues and some parents who have potential but need encouragement, skill-building, the support of other parents," says Ms. Tinney.
Tequell Fernandez, a mother of three children aged 18 months to 7 years, says, "Everyone has their own idea of what they want to do." She was recruited through New Haven adult education, where she is working on her high school equivalency diploma.
Denise Smith has four children, aged 5 to 18, and has been active in her neighborhood and schools. "You get to meet different people from different communities," through the institute, she says, "but we are all coming together as a whole. What I hope to get out of this is to learn about all the different resources that are available. You learn to be a better speaker and a better writer so you can promote your own project."
At a recent class the students were learning about laws. A trainer, Sharon Williams, wrote several questions on the flip chart: What are examples of children's laws? Do laws protect children? What do laws give children, families and communities? Are these laws congruent or conflicting? How does one access law on the Federal, state or local level?
Then Ms. Williams gave the group 10 minutes to note in their journals examples of laws that help children, families, neighborhoods, schools, civil rights and public safety.
The students were full of questions. "You know more than you think you do," she responded, and called time after exactly 10 minutes. She asked how the exercise made them feel.
"Stupid," said one.
"Not prepared," said another.
"I didn't know the laws I need to know," said a third.
"Sometimes when you are breaking a law, you don't even know you're breaking it," said a fourth.
Some examples they came up with were Megan's Law (requiring community notification of the presence of convicted sexual offenders); laws against driving while intoxicated; probate laws to protect children's property rights, and truancy laws.
Michelle McDonald graduated with the fourth institute class in Hartford last spring. Previously, she earned a college degree, got married, had two children, got divorced, got a job that paid very little, was laid off and went on welfare.
"Then I discovered P.L.T.I.," she says. "I got the skills I needed to build a better future for myself and my kids. I was involved with my community before, but I know better now how to advocate for my children and for whatever my community may need. I am more involved with the policy issues."
After graduating from the program, she became a trainer for it, and eventually hopes to go to law school next year. She is applying to Yale and to the University of Connecticut.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a Parent Leadership Training Institute session, above foreground, Paul Millbee, Luisa Berrios and Joyce Gamble discuss health care. Owen Bernard, left, makes a point. Mary Rosario shares lunch with Maurice Edwards, center, and Rick Polanco. (Photographs by Gale Zucker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: PARENT LEADERSHIP TRAINING INSTITUTE

ORGANIZATION: PARENT LEADERSHIP TRAINING INSTITUTE

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH PARENTING (91%); CHILDREN (90%); MANAGER TRAINING (90%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (90%); CURRICULA (89%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); PARENTING SUPPORT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); FOSTER CARE (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (71%); CHURCH & STATE (50%); 

PERSON: TUHUS, MELINDA

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



602 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street? Right Over There Through the Trees

BYLINE: By JAMES LOMUSCIO 

 BODY:
A COUPLE of hundred feet down the road from Orem's Diner, a Wilton mainstay since 1921, coffee, sugar and cocoa are changing hands. So are grain and pork bellies. In fact, since January, traders at the Louis Dreyfus Holding Company Inc., have been running a mini agricultural exchange out of an inconspicuous office building on Route 7.
It's a long way from the World Trade Center, not to mention South Wacker Drive and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and "the trading that goes on is pretty low key," says Bruce Radley, a Louis Dreyfus vice president. Still, what transpires in the laid back Wilton office, he says, can flood the floors of major commodities exchanges with yelling and frenetic hand signals. 
 In fact, since the early 1990's, hundreds of securities and commodities trading companies, asset management firms and research and financial services companies -- most of them boutiques with 10 to 150 employees -- have left Wall Street for Fairfield County.
Tucked away on Mason Street, a relatively quiet row in Greenwich's tony downtown, is an 8,000-square-foot, state-of-the-art trading floor owned by Weeden & Company, a member of the New York Stock Exchange, that relocated its 52 employees from Manhattan to Greenwich three years ago.
"We got some benefits in tax reductions, but that wasn't the motivating factor," says Donald E. Weeden, president. "The real reason was that most of our people lived in the suburbs, and they like the suburban life."
"It can get just as hectic here as it did in New York,"says Mr. Weeden, who lives in Danbury. But once his workers leave the office, says Mr. Weeden, "it's more relaxing because you're looking out on to a much quieter, greener landscape." And traders can now be home in time for their children's recitals, school plays and Little League games.
At Nyala Farms in Westport, acres of rolling, farm fields surround the stone foundation of an old farm building. Look again. Nestled behind the former farm are low-slung modern office buildings, a nexus for financial service companies -- A.I.G. (American International Group) Financial Products, Phibro Energy Inc. and Smith Barney's northeast regional headquarters. A division of Salomon Brothers, Phibro Energy has a two-level trading floor on site.
"We can accommodate financial services companies requiring significant power," says John Sheehan, principal of Delmhorst & Sheehan Inc., a New York City real estate advisory firm representing Nyala Farms. Fiber optic cable is backed up by generators to provide trading floors uninterrupted power.
From Greenwich to Westport and in unassuming buildings that seem to blend with the landscape, the newcomers include also include Nat West, Gabelli & Company and Price Waterhouse. According to the most recent statistics from the Fairfield County Information Exchange, 186 commodities and securities trading companies moved to Connecticut between 1990 and 1994, and similar growth is believed to have continued into this year.
"A lot of these people lived here already, and they didn't want to commute anymore," said Janine Johnson, director of the Fairfield County Information Exchange. "And the technology has made it so that you can function in the financial services sector from virtually anywhere. So people are moving their jobs closer to their homes."
"Many other clusters are growing here like high technology, publishing and health care," she added, "though financial services is out in the lead in terms of the number of jobs."
And that lead will be cinched this fall, says Ms. Johnson, as SBC Warburg, a division of the Swiss Bank Corporation, is scheduled to relocate an estimated 2,000 employees from New York City into a newly constructed, multibuilding complex in downtown Stamford. According to company officials, one building will house a two-story, 60,000-square-foot trading floor that will accommodate 600 traders. It will be the largest trading floor in Connecticut.
While the Swiss Bank Corporation was offered many tax incentives to move, that was not the case with the smaller financial service companies, she said.
"This trend was happening long before the state was offering any kind of assistance," she said.
Mr. Sheehan, for one, cautioned that Fairfield County not become overly dependent upon the financial services industry, and suggested that government officials continue to woo other businesses to the region.
"One of the key ingredients over time is diversity," he said, "and it's in Fairfield County's interest to maintain that diversity; not become too geared to financial services."
Andrew R. Kaplan, senior vice president and general counsel for the A.I.G. Trading Group in Greenwich, said the ability to tap into a good work force and lower personal income taxes were among the reasons for his company's move from New Jersey three years ago.
"It used to be that if you were in financial services the customer expected you to be in Manhattan," said Mr. Kaplan. "That's not true anymore."
Thomas Scheuer is legal counsel for Louis Dreyfus, which also has marketed petroleum products and natural gas from an office campus in the woods off Westport Road in Wilton. Mr. Scheuer also credits computer technology with bringing many of these new companies from Wall Street to Main Street.
"No one is picking up bags of grain here, and no one is picking up bags of grain in Manhattan," said Mr. Scheuer. "Look at Warren Buffet. He's in Nebraska, not on Wall Street, and he's made more money than any of us. With computers we could be in Kansas City or Minneapolis."
The influx has been a boon for the Ashforth Company, a family-owned Stamford-based developer and real estate brokerage agency whose A.P. Construction division has built more than 10 trading floors along the Westport-Greenwich corridor.
The most recent addition is Creditanstalt, the second-largest Austrian bank, which is scheduled to move to Greenwich from New York City in the fall. The bank's corporate finance division will occupy two floors totaling 46,000 square feet. A.P. Construction has renovated one entire level of the building into a trading floor.
"Trading floors are starting to stress the boundaries of what Connecticut is used to putting in," said Andrew B. Ashforth, president of A.P. Construction. "In general, it takes more service."
Speed must be matched with caution, he said. "We've spent a lot of time just working on lighting so they don't get migraines looking at the computer screens," he explained.
One of the biggest concerns for companies relocating to Fairfield County are power outages and brownouts -- problems with the Connecticut Light and Power Company.
"They're so worried about C.L.&P. that we have redundancy, generators backing up generators," said Mr. Ashforth. "You need uninterruptable power sources, because in this business if you're down for 10 minutes, it can cost you $10 million."
Or as Mr. Weeden of Greenwich put it: "If somebody backhoes an underground line, we have a backup, batteries and generators, that take over instantaneously. It's self-sufficiency."
Since many of these trading floors are near residential areas, noise containment is another concern.
Kenneth Tropin, who lives in New Canaan, gave up the Wall Street commute three years ago to start up Graham Capital Management, which has a 1,000-square-foot trading floor staffed 24 hours a day in Stamford.
"I think the technology is a minor element," said Mr. Tropin. "What you have is a number of people who were successful on Wall Street, they live outside New York City, and their family becomes important to them. And part of that equation is simply not commuting."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A.I.G. at Nyala Farms, above, and, inset, in Greenwich where Bill Marr, left, Bill Brown and Ann Reed track currencies on the trading floor. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (84%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOUIS DREYFUS HOLDING CO INC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); WEEDEN & CO LP (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRFIELD (CONN); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); TRENDS (78%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PORK (77%); BONDS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); RELOCATIONS (76%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (72%); FIBER OPTICS (69%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (68%); CHILDREN (67%); SUBURBS (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: LOMUSCIO, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



603 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 7; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Regents Standards Facing Change

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

DATELINE: YONKERS

 BODY:
THIS year's Regents examinations may be fading into a mercifully dim memory for students who took them earlier this month, but concerns about the future of the state exams -- and what they will mean for students and schools -- loom large for educators.
Dr. Richard Mills, the state's Commissioner of Education, and the Board of Regents, have indicated that New York students need to meet more demanding standards to receive a more meaningful high school diploma, one that might prove worthwhile in economic terms. 
 "We want to make our children more competitive in the global economy," said Dr. Mills at the Museum School here last month at a meeting called to discuss the new standards and proposed graduation requirements. "This is for real. Some students tell me they drop out not because it's too challenging but because it's too easy. We need to all lock arms in that endeavor of meeting higher standards, having stronger assessments, higher graduation requirements and more comprehensive teacher training. This is about getting standards right and showing results. We're most interested in results, not telling people how to reach them."
Although the exact form of the new requirements has not been settled, proposals call for increasing the total number of credits a student would have to earn for graduation, increasing the number required in math and science and, in a five-year phased-in program, requiring all students to pass Regents' exams in English, mathematics, global studies, science and United States government and history. The exams would also be more rigorous. The Regents have already voted to eliminate low-level competency tests, which students have been able to substitute for Regents' exams.
Such upgrading is long overdue, some experts say. "We want to encourage kids and schools to teach to a higher level," said Dr. Shirley L. Mow, executive director of the Westchester Education Coalition, a nonprofit organization in White Plains.
For many educators, there are more questions than answers about the proposed changes. Some are worried about students who will not be able to meet the new requirements and about how districts will find money to provide support for such students. Also there is concern over how non-English-speaking students will manage and what will happen if some students need more than four years of high school to graduate. Others are concerned that some students will not be adequately challenged even by revamped Regents' exams, and they also wonder what alternative tests might be approved.
"We don't know what the state graduation requirements will actually be," said Dr. Donald Kusel, Superintendent of Schools in the Tarrytowns. "In a district where you have a diversity of backgrounds of kids, representing a wide economic range, it's a major challenge. The issue is getting kids ready for an all-Regents' high school. We're not sure what the Regents' exams will look like, but whatever it is, we have to make sure we meet the requirements."
Dr. Kusel continued: "We've been working to upgrade the program from the elementary school. For example, we have a new writing program for grades kindergarten through 12. And we're updating the middle school. We want to make sure we're doing our job in terms of providing serious content, study skills, computer skills and writing skills. Most of us agree with the concept that a child must pass Regents, but what do you do with the youngster who fails? And a more powerful question is, What do you do with the kids who fail and just decide they can't do it and want out?"
Parents and teachers who work with special-education students are also uncertain about what impact the Regents' directive will have on those children. "Boces programs will be affected by the standards," said Dr. Vincent Beni, Superintendent of the Board of Cooperative Educational Services of Southern Westchester. "There is an expectation that more kids will be meeting the standards, with an attempt to give those kids an opportunity to have a more significant educational curriculum. There will have to be some recognition of kids with severe disabilities."
For other districts, there are other issues to explore with the Regents. "We're very supportive of the Commissioner's efforts to set clear standards to attain a diploma,"said Peter Clarke, principal of Bronxville High School. "We're still discussing with the State Department of Education increasing the range of exams that are more appropriate to the needs of our students. We want to see a variety of vehicles used." Among them, Mr. Clarke said, could be an Advanced Placement exam or S.A.T. II test in a particular subject, or the International Baccalaureate, the equivalent of the Advanced Placement Exam.
In districts that have already embraced an all-Regents program, the concept appears to be working. "We believe in the Regents' standard," said Dr. Barbara Ferraro, principal of Rye Neck High School. "We've had all-Regents for the last three years, and it works. All children need to participate in a higher program. We're still building. We keep the goal in mind."
In Harrison, where this year's 9th and 10th graders took six academic subjects and next year's 9th-through-11th-graders will do the same, there is a concerted effort to raise standards.
"We think more kids should be enrolled in more courses,"said David Trizano, principal of Harrison High School. "We're ahead of the Regents, but the Commissioner is right in asking us to challenge all students. The Regents' core curriculum is a rich academic curriculum, and it's a better educational program. Your expectations have to be known."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; YONKERS (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; TESTS AND TESTING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); MATHEMATICS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: MILLS, RICHARD P (COMR); ROSENBERG, MERRI MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



604 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property;
Hotel Projects Flourish in Philadelphia's Downtown

BYLINE: By DAVID J. WALLACE 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
MORE than 30 proposals for hotel construction or renovation have been made for the downtown business district as this city tries to capitalize on its growing popularity for conventions, corporate meetings and tourism.
Property owners are responding to a shortage of hotel space and a challenge by Mayor Edward G. Rendell, who has said that the city needs 2,000 new rooms to serve its convention center and to compete for a national political convention in 2000. 
 With scarcely any activity in downtown office or residential development, attention has turned to converting obsolete office buildings to hotels. Construction financing is difficult to find, however, causing delays for several developers.
But six hotel projects have been selected for city tax-increment financing, Federal historic-building tax credits or loan guarantees to leverage private investment. Those hotels would add 2,300 new rooms, most of them near the Pennsylvania Convention Center, which opened four years ago on Arch Street between 10th and 12th Streets.
One project near construction after having cobbled together financing from various sources involves the former Pennsylvania Savings Fund Society headquarters, known as the PSFS Building, at 12th and Market Streets. The Rubin Organization, a Philadelphia developer, has formed a joint venture with Loews Hotels, which will operate the 590-room hotel after a complete renovation. The glass-and-granite building, built in 1932, has 625,000 square feet of space on 36 floors and is a block from the convention center.
Financing for the project includes $26 million in partnership equity; a $40 million mortgage, half of which is guaranteed under the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Section 108 program; $16 million in bond revenue generated by a tax set-aside in a special district that includes the hotel property, and a $2.2 million loan from the Philadelphia Industrial Development Corporation.
The property could be open within two years because the existing superstructure is being used, said Carl Dranoff, president of the Rubin Organization's residential division and director of the project. And because the PSFS Building is on the National Register of Historic Places as the first tower built in International Style architecture, it qualifies for tax credits for Loews Hotels.
"The capital markets are not exactly a thundering herd chasing downtown construction," Mr. Dranoff said. "We engineered some special financing to augment the first mortgage and meet everyone's needs."
Hotel occupancy rose to 75 percent last year from 63 percent in 1992 despite a nearly 30 percent increase in rooms, an indicator of long-term growth, according to a report by PKF Consulting.
Two of the largest recently completed hotels are the 1,200-room Marriott Hotel serving the convention center and a 500-room Marriott Hotel at Philadelphia International Airport. Average room rates in Philadelphia rose to $115 a night last year from $88 in 1992, PKF Consulting said. Convention visitors have been joined by travelers to such national events as last summer's baseball All-Star Game, an exhibition of Cezanne paintings and the Presidential summit conference on volunteerism.
Last fall, city officials hired Peter Tyson, president of Horwath Hospitality Consulting in Kennett Square, Pa., to identify hotel proposals that would have the biggest impact without flooding the market with rooms and creating discounting. He said the city was slowly shedding its reputation as "a bargain city in the Northeast." That was the perception in the 1970's and 1980's, when older hotels dominated the city and before the Ritz-Carlton, Four Seasons and other luxury hotels opened here. "The future looks good, but if too many hotels get built in the wrong place at the wrong position in the market, there could be dilution," Mr. Tyson said. "What's really lacking is rooms in the lower mid-market, something in the $80-$100 range. But it's hard to make the economics work with that sort of room rate."
IN addition to the PSFS Building, the five other properties selected for assistance are a 450-room Courtyard by Marriott Hotel at Penn Square East, near City Hall; a 290-room Hawthorn Suites in Chinatown at 11th and Vine Streets; a 370-room Westin Hotel at Broad and Chestnut Streets; a 215-room Marriott addition to its hotel at 12th and Market Streets, and a 350-room Hyatt Hotel at Penn's Landing, at Delaware Avenue and Spruce Street.
The Hyatt would be the only new construction project; the others would renovate existing structures. Several property owners, including Jerry Pantelidis, a developer, were approached by hotel operators looking to create rooms to let. Mr. Pantelidis is renovating the vacant and unsold condominium units in the Barclay, a former hotel at Rittenhouse Square at 18th Street near Locust Street. But after an overture from Miami-based Carnival Hotels and Resorts, he has agreed to designate 200 of the rooms for hotel use. He said large institutional lenders and real estate investment trusts that lost money on past hotel projects were now setting stricter terms for developers.
"They want everything they can possibly get, from completion guarantees that can be bonded or a percentage of the liabilities guaranteed," Mr. Pantelidis said. "Because of the amount of money they are investing, they can make some major demands."
So city and Federal incentives are "basically solving an access-to-capital issue," said William Hankowsky, president of the Philadelphia Industrial Development Corporation. The corporation and the city agreed to offer financial assistance only to hotels that would directly serve the convention center or related tourism.
Mr. Hankowsky said that these hotels would create jobs and generate tax revenue and that their creation would lead to more hotels being built downtown and near the airport without government aid. He said the 3-to-1 ratio of $360 million in hotel development to $110 in total subsidies was sound.
One development site identified by Mr. Hankowsky is a parcel owned by Amtrak adjacent to its rail terminal, 30th Street Station, at the western end of Center City. This month, five developers responded to Amtrak's request for proposals to build a hotel, meeting space, a restaurant and a movie theater on the five-acre site that could be expanded to include construction above the tracks. Amtrak retained Granite Partners, a New York-based consultant, and Prudential Corporate Real Estate Advisors.
"The development climate in Philadelphia is unlike anything I've seen there in a decade," said Gerard Mason, senior managing director of Granite Partners. "The station underwent an $80 million renovation several years ago and it's poised for this new cycle of development. It will be a gateway with the finest intermodal transportation that simply doesn't exist anywhere else. It sits at the center of two interstate highways, commuter and subway lines and inter-city trains."
The station is Amtrak's second-busiest in the Northeast, after New York City, and could be a hub for meetings and day travel once Amtrak begins high-speed service between Boston and Washington in late 1999, said Sally Bellet, Amtrak's vice president for development of the Northeast Corridor. "That station is directly connected to Center City and the airport or the suburbs because it shares the station with subway and regional rail lines," she said. "We hope to pick a developer by the end of June and begin with a lease arrangement for a phased project starting with that first site."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former Pennsylvania Savings Fund Society headquarters, left, at 12th and Market Streets, is to become a 590-room hotel. Above, Amtrak parcel adjacent to the 30th Street Station may be site for a hotel complex. (Photographs by Steven M. Falk for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOEWS HOTELS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); CITIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); AIRPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, DAVID J ED RENDELL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



605 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Old-Time Norwalk Diner Adds Cloning to Its Menu

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
FOR half a century a 35-seat, no-frills diner called Swanky Frank's has done a thriving business on U.S. Route 1 in Norwalk.
Since its inception as a hot dog stand, through changing ownerships and a few modest enlargements, it has maintained a broad-based clientele reflected by the vehicles in its parking lot -- pickups, Rolls-Royces, 10-wheelers, station wagons, vans and teen-agers' fixer-uppers, to name a few. 
 In the 1950's, business increased markedly when construction of the new Interstate 95 placed Exit 14 directly opposite the diner.
Until now, Swanky Frank's has, like most diners, been one of a kind. But earlier this month, a second Swanky Frank's opened at 44 Stony Hill Road in Bethel.
Robert Manere, who owns the Norwalk diner, and his Bethel partners -- Peter Schattenfield, a financial planner, and Brandon Miller, a former commodities broker who has owned the Tucson Cafe in Greenwich since 1994 -- are seeking five or six more locations in which to open Swanky Frank's clones elsewhere in Connecticut.
Mr. Manere has a 51 percent ownership of the Bethel location with his two partners having 49 percent. The three men will share a minimum of 51 percent of any new Swanky Frank's.
The diner was founded by Frank Christiano in 1947, "right after World War II, when people were taking off on the highways and roadside restaurants began to spring up," Mr. Manere said. He bought it ten years ago from Leonard Conlon, and took a 10-year lease, which has now expired, from Al Renzuella, who has owned the property since 1953.
"We're looking for existing places like this," Mr. Manere said, "a thousand square feet, free-standing -- not in a mall or strip mall, on a well-traveled road in towns like Monroe, Brookfield, New Milford, Clinton, Old Saybrook, Lyme -- where rents are reasonable."
He would not disclose the price he had paid for the business nor his current rent, but he said that it was "low."
Believing that a well-worn appearance is part of the charm, he has not spent major sums on renovations. Six Formica tables have been rubbed clean of their original finish, the floor beneath them does not match the floor in the counter area, and spots where the asphalt tile has worn through only add to the homely cachet.
Bargain-priced as the place and its food may be, Mr. Manere says that that he can make more than $100,000 a year, with enough left for operational costs and repairs. It is not surprising, therefore, that he is trying to replicate the concept, although his landlord has taken issue with his plans.
"I bought the property and the name from Christiano -- it's my name and Manere has no right to use it," Mr. Renzuella said. "I could have franchised 30 years ago, but that's not what I want. He should have contacted me about this. He has no lease now, and I don't care who I rent it to."
He could not, however, recall anything on paper regarding ownership of the name, but Mr. Manere could. "I own the name," he said. "I had it copyrighted."
One of his customers, Pamela Ballard, is among hundreds of first-, second- and third-generation patrons who have been coming to the diner since childhood. "My family took me to Swanky Frank's every Friday night for a fried shrimp dinner that cost $4.95 -- its $8.95 today," she said. "Then we'd go next door to the drive-in movie where the Wiz is now."
The Wiz is one of many stores that have boosted property values on that strip of Route 1, said Michael Greene, Norwalk's City Planner. "It's one of the hottest retail areas in the state," he said. "We are seeing consolidation of parcels similar to the four or five properties that were acquired for the new Home Depot."
But the market value of Swanky Frank's .26-acre Norwalk property is only $200,000, according to the most recent city assessment. "Because of the small amount of land, there isn't a lot you can do with it," said Ken Whitman, the assessor. "The topography goes up sharply in back to a residential neighborhood so it's not easily combined with other parcels."
Swanky Frank's in Bethel seats 45 and takes up 10 percent of the nine-tenths-of-an-acre site, which is shared with seven apartment units in a former motel, a rented cottage and a two-unit house. The entire property has a market value of $455,600, according to the town assessor, Kristina Maddocks. Renovations and equipment cost about $40,000, and the rent for 7 remaining years of the 10-year lease the restaurant took over is $750 a month, according to the property owner, Michael Sproviero.
"In the food industry, you should never pay more than 6 or 7 percent of your gross income on rent," said Steve Matsis, the partners' real estate broker. "You have to estimate what you will be able to do, including take-out -- that's where the money is."
His company, S.A. Matsis Restaurant Associates of Newtown, deals only in restaurant properties. "I've done a lot of research," he said, "and there is a big trend today in getting back to diner-style dining. People are looking for simple, American food. Of course, fine dining is alive and well, but these types of eateries are for families -- especially in the warmer months. We call it impulse dining. These are not destination locations."
Mr. Matsis rates Stony Hill Road as an up and coming area for retail, and Raymond Rubley, Bethel's building official and zoning enforcement officer, agrees. "Exit 8 of Interstate 84 at one end and Exit 9 at the other end lead into Danbury and Newtown," he said. "There are a few pieces of land left, but the major parcels are gone." He noted that the road recently had sewers put in, adding to its attraction.
IN addition to several small businesses and restaurants, including a large stone-fronted establishment called the New Colony Diner, there are four motels on the road: the Stony Hill Inn, Best Western, Seagull Motel and Red Roof, and a proposal for a Microtel motel is under consideration. Bethel's industrial park containing the recently built $70 million Duracell world headquarters, MCI's telecommunications and conferencing center "and other smaller companies provide good business for restaurants," Mr. Rubley said.
Diners were memorialized in "The American Diner," a book of photographs and text by J.S. Gutman and Elliott Kaufman, published in the late 1970's by Harper & Row, at a time when diners were disappearing.
It traces their evolution from turn-of-the-century, horse-drawn lunch wagons that dispensed food at amusements parks, beaches and construction sites. Relatively few diners were converted from actual railroad dining cars, but thousands were manufactured to resemble them. In the 1920's, they reflected Art Deco architecture, in the 30's they mimicked the new streamlined trains, and in later decades they grew into large, elaborately designed restaurants that retained the title of diner for its mass appeal.
Unlike houses, which, from an economic point of view, are usually better owned than rented, restaurants are better rented. "I deal with a major chain that signs only 5-year leases, with options to renew," Mr. Matsis said. "If a trend fades, they have the option of staying or leaving. If they own the property, they are stuck with it and must find another kind of tenant or buyer if a restaurant is no longer profitable. All a restaurant cares about is the bottom line, property ownership is a burden."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Manere, owner of Swanky Frank's in Norwalk, and two partners have opened a second diner in Bethel. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (84%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (51%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: SWANKY FRANK'S (NORWALK, CONN, DINER)

ORGANIZATION: SWANKY FRANK'S (NORWALK, CONN, DINER)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORWALK (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (84%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (51%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; DINERS (EATING PLACES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION REAL ESTATE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (68%); COMMODITIES TRADING (67%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (63%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (53%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: MANERE, ROBERT; CHARLES, ELEANOR MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



606 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
Reshaping the Rent Law for the Next Six Years

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
IN the 19-unit condominium at 21 East 66th Street, there is no dispute between an owner and a clinical psychologist who has lived as a rent-stabilized tenant in an eight-room apartment on the sixth floor for over 18 years. The rent is $2,200 a month. But should it turn out next year at lease-renewal time that the tenant's income exceeded $175,000 a year in 1996 and 1997, the tenant will face a decision: whether to pay much more rent, move out, or possibly buy the apartment.
Walter & Samuels Inc., the real estate company that manages the apartment, puts its free-market rental value at $12,000 a month and its sale value at $1.5 million. 
 In the 10-unit, five-story walk-up at 333 East 52d Street, there definitely is a dispute. The landlord's version is that the tenant arrived in January 1996, agreeing to pay $2,000 a month in rent. Payment stopped two months later. Taken to court, the tenant claimed habitability deficiencies. Repairs were made. Still no rent. The tenant declared bankruptcy two months ago, owing $28,000 in back rent.
The Rent Regulation Reform Act of 1997, adopted by the Legislature on June 19 and promptly signed into law by Gov. George E. Pataki, bears on both these situations.
The law is a modest revision of existing regulations, running six years instead of three. It is far from the full phase-out in a specific period of time initially advocated by State Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader. It is not even the much slower phase-out through vacancy decontrol proposed by Governor Pataki.
Nevertheless, it may alter the shape of the high end of the Manhattan market. And if its mandate for rent deposits with the court during housing disputes survives a likely constitutional test and is implemented by judges in Housing Court, owners will get relief from a long-standing grievance. Owners have long argued that the Housing Court system is too easily abused by those who willfully seek to avoid paying rent.
During the dispute on East 52d Street, the tenant and his wife paid no rent for over a year, said Dr. Mohammad M. Dastghaib, chief of anesthesiology at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center, who owns the building. "I found out after the first hearing in Housing Court that I'm the fifth owner this tenant has stiffed," he said.
The condominium at Madison Avenue on East 66th Street shows the law's deregulatory impact on occupied apartments. Previously, the income threshold for deregulation in an occupied apartment was $250,000 a year for two years. That was lowered to $175,000 but the rent threshold -- $2,000 -- was left unchanged. As for vacant apartments, they are decontrolled if their legal vacancy rent is at least $2,000.
A new wrinkle is that if the owner receives a decontrol order for an occupied apartment, the tenant must be offered the apartment at a rent no higher than the market rent. The tenant has 10 days to decide whether to accept or reject it.
Another change concerns succession rights. Once the tenant moves or dies, succession is limited to the spouse, children, stepchildren, parents, stepparents, siblings, grandparents, grandchildren, children-in-law and parents-in-law. Inclusive as the list is, it now excludes aunts, uncles, nieces and nephews. Nontraditional family members also retain potential succession rights.
After one generation of succession, the owner can get a vacancy-rent increase for subsequent successor tenants in the family.
VACANCY rent increases themselves have grown more generous: 20 percent, instead of an amount set annually by the Rent Guidelines Board. For very-low-rent apartments, a special vacancy allowance has been established that could lift the rent for a new tenant by about $100 if the old rent had been under $500.
In a change meaningful to developers, the law makes it easier to obtain demolition permits for buildings that still have a few rent-controlled tenants. If there are three or fewer such tenants, occupying 10 percent or less of the total number of apartments in the building, the owner no longer has to make the all-but-impossible case, to qualify for a demolition permit, that the building is not economically viable. The owner still has to provide comparable alternative housing to vacate the building and start demolition.
Many well-to-do renters will find it harder under the new law to maintain their regulated status. Their incentive to own rather than rent their long-term primary housing may rise. (Apartments in newer buildings that still receive the tax benefits that fostered their construction will generally continue to be regulated for the current or a future tenant, regardless of rent level, as long as the tax abatement remains in effect.)
However, figures developed by the Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University Law School indicate that there are only about 2,700 regulated tenants in New York City who both pay more than $2,000 a month in rent and have incomes of $175,000 or more. There are apparently none outside Manhattan, or at least too few to be measured by sampling methods. The figures are derived from the housing vacancy survey of the Census Bureau last year.
About 8,900 rent-stabilized tenants earning $175,000 or more pay less than $2,000 a month, the figures show. (The number of rent-controlled apartments in this category were too few to be quantified in the survey.) Many of the high-income rent stabilized tenants will probably never reach a $2,000 rent through guideline increases; about half of them pay less than $1,000.
But once there is a vacancy, any owner with an apartment worth $2,000 will probably find it possible to reach the $2,000 threshold, deregulating the apartment regardless of the former rent. The state law supersedes a City Council law under which vacant apartments after April 14 were to become deregulated only when the last regulated tenant was paying at least $2,000 a month.
There are several ways to reach a $2,000 legal vacancy rent. First, there is the 20 percent vacancy increase authorized by the new law on a two-year lease. Second, there is a bonus if the apartment has had no vacancy increase over the legal regulated rent for eight years. The bonus is six-tenths of 1 percent per year. That means 6 percent for 10 years and 12 percent for 20 years, calculated on the basis of the last regulated rent.
The law also specifically allows owners to raise vacancy rents by one-fortieth of the cost of improvements made to the apartment. These can be substantial in a long-occupied apartment that becomes vacant. Each $10,000 in improvements permits a rent increase of $250 a month.
Thus, a two-bedroom West Side apartment occupied by the same tenant for 20 years and vacated at a rent of $1,200 could reach the $2,000 threshold like this: a $240 (20 percent) vacancy allowance; a $144 bonus (12 percent for 20 years with no vacancy allowance), and a $500 increase for $20,000 in apartment improvements. That gets the new legal rent to $2,084, and deregulates the apartment so that its owner can charge whatever rent the market will bear.
Under the current guideline in effect until Sept. 30, there is also a 9 percent vacancy allowance for rent-stabilized apartments. It becomes zero as of Oct. 1. But until then, a vacated apartment will apparently also qualify for this increase.
The new law requires judges to hold rents in escrow during disputes that have legally interrupted collections, once a judge has granted a tenant two adjournments, or 30 days after the tenant's first appearance in court, whichever is sooner.
For buildings of 12 or fewer apartments, only the amount of rent in dispute needs to be held by the court. The rest would go directly to the owner.
Douglas K. Rosenberg, president of B.P.C. Management Corporation in Brooklyn, said that 10 percent of the 3,000 housing units the firm manages are involved in Housing Court actions each year. In roughly half of them, Mr. Rosenberg said, an escrow system would have speeded the resolution of the cases and limited the loss of rent.
At 184 State Street in downtown Brooklyn, a law student who rented a studio apartment in 1994 for $625 a month "used the court system as a bank -- for free credit," Mr. Rosenberg said, suggesting that the court system forced the owner to advance housing cost-free and try to collect later. After many court dates, hearings, adjournments and stipulations, the tenant was evicted owing $9,000, Mr. Rosenberg said. Legal fees incurred by the owner totaled $2,000. Efforts to collect back rent continue.
The effect of the escrow provision remains to be seen. An effort in 1983 to control legislatively how judges act in housing cases was considered a failure. Time will tell whether the more explicit approach of the new law has a different outcome.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Douglas K. Rosenberg says 10 percent of his housing units are involved in court actions yearly (Linda Rosier for The New York Times). An apartment at 21 East 66th, now renting for $2,200 a month, could go to $12,000 (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RENTING AND LEASING RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RENT CONTROL (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); ANESTHESIOLOGY (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (51%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (67%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



607 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT;
Making Social Policy by Mixing the Old and the Young

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART 

DATELINE: MEDFORD

 BODY:
Because a residence for older people got involved in the child-care business, Fred Greenley, 86, a retired financial manager, is able to pursue the hobby he prefers to progressive bridge or birding.
On a recent afternoon, he silently opened the door of a darkened room where two toddlers lay sleeping on mats and a baby dozed in a crib. He gazed at them, his eyes softening, his face lighted with quiet delight. 
 "Kids are nice," he said, waiting patiently for them to awaken. "It's so nice to watch them develop. To watch them smile."
Mr. Greenley -- Pop-pop to the children -- regularly drops by the day-care center for children of employees of the Medford Leas Continuing Care Community here in Burlington County. Some 50 children, ranging in age from 6 weeks to 6 years, are cared for on weekdays at Medford Leas, which has 300 employees and 500 residents. The program has inspired some state legislators to try to promote similar efforts at senior residences around the state, as part of a package of bills to alleviate a chronic shortage of affordable day care.
The child-care center gives Medford Leas' workers reasonably priced day care and the chance to visit their youngsters during breaks. The children get extra attention and informal lessons from volunteer senior residents. And the older people have the pleasure of the proximity of children -- as much or as little as they want.
"It's got to be a good thing for so many adults to think you're special and wonderful," said Lois Forrest, executive director, explaining why, in her view, Medford Leas' children are especially well adjusted.
The bill designed to encourage other senior residences to start employee child-care centers was introduced earlier this month by two members of the state Assembly, Loretta Weinberg, a Democrat from Teaneck, and Carol Murphy, a Republican from Morris Plains. It would provide low-interest construction loans and give volunteers training by the Division of Youth and Family Services.
Other bills in the package would increase from 5 to 10 the number of children allowed at small home day-care centers; provide training and grants to schools and churches to open day-care centers, and provide low-interest loans and tax incentives so smaller businesses can help their workers find day care.
Currently, 12,000 parents are on a waiting list for one of the state's 7,400 day-care slots reserved for low-income families; some of the parents register at more than one center. There are no statistics on nonsubsidized day care, but experts say infant day care is especially scarce, no matter what the family income. Welfare recipients going back to work are guaranteed child care for two years after finding a job and currently account for a few thousand additional subsidized slots.
The real pressure is on parents with low-income jobs.
"It forces people who've gotten jobs and gotten off welfare to go back on," said Gail Rosewater, director of the Bergen County Office for Children. "It forces parents to choose unregulated care in places where health and safety standards may not be met, to maybe have to put their infants and toddlers in somebody's house with 30 kids, unregulated."
Senior-living complexes in New Jersey could, in theory, offer day care to tens of thousands of children. The cost of providing child care in an institutional setting isn't high, said Mrs. Forrest, a board member of the New Jersey Association of Nonprofit Homes and Services for the Aged. But most are for-profit institutions and would probably be unwilling to spend the money, said Mrs. Forrest.
Medford Leas, a nonprofit Quaker center with cottages and enclosed walkways set among its wooded grounds, opened its child-care center in the hope of attracting and keeping employees at a time when good ones were scarce. The cost to employee parents is about $13 a week. Neighboring parents, whose children are admitted when there is space, pay twice that.
But what is most striking is not the quantifiable cost of the care but the unquantifiable benefits of mixing children with elderly people.
On a recent morning, outside on the grass and pine needles, children and older residents in wheelchairs did hand and arm exercises together. They grabbed handles on the sides of a big red, blue and yellow parachute, bouncing it up and down. For the elderly people, this physical therapy is brightened by the children, who think it's a game. The children, meanwhile, get time with a few dozen grandparents.
The children become familiar with old age and wheelchairs and disabilities. No Medford Leas graduate would ever embarrass a parent by yelling "Why does that old lady have to walk with a stick?"
And the children add another dimension to residents' lives. Margot Young, 89, a Bronx schoolteacher of 43 years who is now blind, has been outlining in her mind a big project: a puppet theater for the children. She would like to make the hand puppets as she did when she was teaching. The men could make the theater in the wood shop. She has scripts for Pinocchio and many other shows. "It would give me great joy," she said.
Mr. Greenley doesn't say that, exactly. But as the toddlers awaken, the sensible voice he used when talking to adults softens. And he smiles broadly when a small girl, swinging on the doorknob, yells: "That's Pop-pop! Hi, Pop-pop!"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Playing with a parachute is physical therapy for residents and fun for children. Inge Raven, a resident of Medford Leas, teaches music at the child-care center. (Photographs by Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDFORD LEAS CONTINUING CARE COMMUNITY (NJ)

ORGANIZATION: MEDFORD LEAS CONTINUING CARE COMMUNITY (NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEDFORD (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DAY CARE CENTERS; AGED; LAW AND LEGISLATION CHILD CARE (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); TAX LAW (67%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (61%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: STEWART, BARBARA MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



608 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Business Loan Program To Aid State's Women

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:
Responding to a small downturn in the number of New Jersey women applying for small-business loans, the Federal Small Business Administration started a program last week to expedite applications.
The number of women who propose new businesses and get approval for loans had increased until this year. So far in this Federal fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, 184 loans have been made in New Jersey to women starting or expanding small businesses through the administration, which guarantees to pay at least 75 percent of the loan to the bank in case of default. In the same period last year 188 loans had been made. 
 Under the new Women's Pre-Qualification Loan Program process, the Small Business Administration will screen loan applications to determine if the business owner qualifies for its guarantee. Then when the applicant goes to a bank for a loan, she is more likely to get approval, according to Harry Menta, a spokesman for the Small Business Administration's New Jersey district office in Newark.
Normally, the financial institution applies to the administration for a loan guarantee on behalf of the applicant. This can often come after a time-consuming process of applying at several banks before finding one willing to go to the Small Business Administration, Mr. Menta said.
To qualify for a loan of up to $250,000, a woman must own a majority of a company and employ fewer than 100 people. KAREN DeMASTERS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (SBA) SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (95%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (SBA) SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (95%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; WOMEN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SMALL BUSINESS (97%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (92%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); WOMEN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: DEMASTERS, KAREN

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



609 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Bethany Neubauer, Nicholas Tobier

 BODY:
Bethany Lynn Neubauer, the daughter of Susan and Perry Neubauer of Cambridge, Mass., was married at her parents' house yesterday to Nicholas Adam Tobier, the son of Nina and Emanuel Tobier of New York. The Rev. David Newton, a nondenominational minister and a friend of the couple, officiated.
Ms. Neubauer, 29, who is keeping her name, is a candidate for a Ph.D. in United States urban history at Columbia University. She graduated from Bryn Mawr College. 
 The bride's father is the director of institutional projects at ADD Inc., architects in Cambridge. Her mother is the head of technical services at the Robbins Library in Arlington, Mass.
Mr. Tobier, also 29, is a sculptor in Cambridge. In September, he is to resume studying for a master's degree in landscape architecture at Harvard University. He graduated from Swarthmore College.
His mother is a freelance medical editor in New York. His father is a professor of economics and urban planning at New York University.
 


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ADD INC (71%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (86%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (68%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (65%); 

PERSON: NEUBAUER, BETHANY LYNN; TOBIER, NICHOLAS ADAM

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



610 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Alabamians Don't Mind

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"O.K., So How Many Alabamians Does It Take . . . " (Alabama Journal, June 24) is accurate in saying many Alabamians are embarrassed by the how the country sees us. However, my friends and family in Birmingham don't mind being the butt of jokes. They live in one of the fastest growing counties in the United States, with an unemployment rate of 1 percent. Malls and office complexes are springing up on former farmland. My friends worry that the city will turn into a suburban agglomeration like Atlanta. 
 I have concluded that Gov. Fob James, the crazy Alabama political machine and the ABC television affiliate that censored "Ellen" are continuing to commit public relations blunders on purpose. It's a ploy to keep Alabama's treasures a secret from the world.
 
CODY LYON
New York, June 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (94%); 

CITY: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (70%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA; UNITED STATES (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRENDS (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); CENSORSHIP (66%); 

PERSON: LYON, CODY

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



611 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
In Japan's Rebound, Exporters May Be the Stars

BYLINE: By MARCIA VICKERS 

 BODY:
IT'S advice that is reminiscent of the 1980's: American investors should take a close look at some of Japan's corporate giants, particularly the exporters.
At home in Japan, these companies operate in an economy that is finally looking up after a seven-year recession. In 1996, Japan's real annual economic growth rate was 3.6 percent, compared with 2.4 percent in the United States. And the Nikkei index of 225 issues has gained about 6 percent this year, in contrast to a loss of 6 percent in 1996. 
 For dollar-based investors, the yen makes the exporters look particularly attractive. The dollar trades at around 114 yen, making the Japanese currency worth 43 percent less vis-a-vis the dollar than in April 1995, when the yen hit its postwar high. This means Sony and Canon can sell their compact disk players and copiers at relatively low prices to American consumers.
To be sure, many experts, like Daniel J. Duane, managing director of Prudential Investments, say the yen "bottomed out" against the dollar in April, in the mid-120's. Thus, they say, Japanese exports will only become more expensive in the United States. "The last thing you want," Mr. Duane said, "is a company that makes stuff in Japan in the midst of a rising currency, then sells it in the United States in the weaker currency."
The economic rebound in Japan has also made the exporters' stocks more expensive. Sony's American depository receipts, which are certificates representing the company's shares, have risen from $65.25 to $87.875 so far this year, for example.
But Japanese exporters have many American fans, including Michael Metz, the chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company. "There are still excellent opportunities for U.S. investors in Japanese export stocks," Mr. Metz said. "Though Japan's economy and currency are improving, the exporters are prepared for that, so we remain bullish on them."
He and others point to several advantages of these investments, many of which can be bought in the United States as A.D.R.'s.
If the yen continues to rise against the dollar, for instance, then American investors in Japanese companies can make money even if the stock price stays still. Although the dollar-based business of these exporters will somewhat dampen this currency effect, the yen has gained nearly 10 percent on the dollar since April. At the same time, investors who buy Japanese stocks with dollars today are still getting a lot for their money.
To survive when the yen was trading at 80 or 90 to the dollar two years ago, the companies cut costs sharply -- and their new leanness should help them now.
"Because the yen's strength is already built in, these companies will remain in great shape for U.S. investors as Japan's currency gets stronger," Mr. Metz said.
Finally, he said, despite their recent run-up, the stocks of some Japanese exporters are still inexpensive under two common measures for foreign stocks -- the ratio of stock price to sales per share, and the ratio of stock price to cash flow per share.
Consider Sony, the consumer and industrial electronics giant. Its ratio of price to cash flow is 7.9, versus a median ratio of 13 for the Standard & Poor's 500.
Sony looks good in other ways, too. "The attractive thing about Sony is that it is so strong in digital consumer products, which are the big wave of the future," said David Warren, portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Japan fund, which holds Sony shares. Sony's new products include digital video disks and digital camcorders, and it is developing digital televisions.
In its most recent quarter, Sony's earnings were $99.5 million, up from $8.2 million a year earlier. Sales of the Sony Playstation accounted for much of the gain.
Moreover, Sony's revenue in Japan rose 15.3 percent last year -- a sign of the buffer that many Japanese exporters have against loss of foreign sales because of a rising yen. Many Japanese exporters get 30 to 60 percent of revenue from domestic sales.
The Ito-Yokado Company, which owns supermarkets, discount department stores, restaurants and convenience stores, is another favorite exporter among money managers. One of the world's largest retailers, it has a majority stake in Seven-Eleven Japan -- whose stores sell staples like rice balls, Coca-Cola and Pocari Sweat, a Japanese sports drink -- and in the Southland Corporation, the parent of the 7-Eleven chains in the United States and Canada.
True, an increase this spring in Japan's sales tax, from 3 percent to 5 percent, may dampen this company's domestic earnings, and the recent run-up in its A.D.R. price has been particularly sharp. But investors say Ito-Yokado, with its moderately priced goods, is particularly well-positioned.
In North America, Southland has been turned around in the last few years. It has refurbished 5,200 7-Eleven stores and has added gas stations to many of them. "With the remodeling, you saw a major increase in the quality of 7-Eleven's," said David Ishibashi, portfolio manager for Asian equities at Smith Barney. Annual operating earnings at Southland increased 29 percent in 1996.
Back at home, Ito-Yokado is also strong. "Now that Japan's economy is recovering, consumers are purchasing both durable and nondurable goods," Mr. Ishibashi said. "And since they are looking for good value, they are flocking to stores like Ito-Yokado, which is somewhat like Wal-Mart in the United States."
Mr. Warren added that, to counter the opening of Japanese superstores by other companies, Ito-Yokado "is now looking at aggressively opening new stores and that's certainly a positive."
Fuji Photo Film, the second-largest maker of film, after Kodak, is another appealing A.D.R. The company, which also makes cameras, video cassettes and other products, controls 70 percent of the Japanese film market, and its American business is growing. Last year, Fuji bought six Wal-Mart photo-finishing plants and the exclusive rights to supply photographic paper and to process film in Wal-Mart stores -- moves that have increased its share of the American photo-finishing market.
Given such growth, said Andrew Teufel, research analyst at Fisher Investments in Woodside, Calif., "we think Fuji is now on a level playing ground with a lot of the U.S. large-cap consumer product companies," like Kodak and Procter & Gamble.
Fuji is also expanding elsewhere. It has a distribution agreement with 2,200 film-developing stores in China, which will soon surpass Japan as the second-largest film market. And, Mr. Ishibashi said, "Fuji is brilliant in its marketing of throwaway cameras" to the third world, where people "can't afford regular cameras."
Canon, the world leader in sales of color copiers and cameras, is also worth a look, analysts say, despite a run-up of 26 percent this year. Its A.D.R.'s trade at a price-to-cash flow ratio of 11.7, versus the median of 13 for the S.& P. 500. And Canon has multiple sources of profit -- including the innards of its own competitors' machines.
"Even if you buy a Hewlett-Packard laser printer, it uses a Canon engine," Mr. Ishibashi said. "And then, of course, Canon also makes a ton of money on printer and copier supplies to go with its office machines."
Rika Yoshida, an editorial analyst at Morningstar Inc., says Canon is dedicated to new technology. "It's a solid company that spends roughly 6 percent of its revenues on research and development annually," he said. "That's a very large percentage for such a large company." Canon had the second-highest number of American patents awarded last year, after I.B.M.
The recent price gains in these and other Japanese A.D.R.'s do give some analysts pause. "I'm always a little bit leery of being too enthusiastic when something just performed very strongly," Mr. Warren said. That makes a long-term perspective particularly important, he added.
"If one has the patience," he said, "many of Japan's international blue chips are stocks we're happy with."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ito-Yokado, the big retailer, controls 7-Eleven chains in the United States and Japan. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Table: "Rising in the East"
Japan's economy is strengthening but the yen's relative weakness makes its exports low-priced. Some analysts say those two conditions can help these Japanese exporters, all of which trade here as American depository receipts.
 
Company, symbol -- Friday close
 
Sony, SNE -- $87.875
Ito-Yokado, IYCOY -- $229.50
Canon, CANNY -- $138.25
Fuji Photo Film, FUJIY -- $40.625
 
Analysts' appraisal
 
Sony: Its digital products are strong, and its stock trades below the average price-cashflow ratio of the S.& P. 500.
 
Ito-Yokado: This 'Japanese Wal-Mart' should profit as the nation's consumers spend more. Its remodeled 7-Eleven stores in North America are increasing their earnings.
 
Canon: This office equipment maker has a big research budget and is smart at creating multiple sources of profit.
 
Fuji: It has increased its share of the American photofinishing market, while its disposable cameras should sell well in emerging markets.
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; analysts' reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (90%); SNE (NYSE) (90%); 6758 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP; ITO-YOKADO CO; CANON INC; FUJI PHOTO FILM CO OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: SONY CORP; ITO-YOKADO CO; CANON INC; FUJI PHOTO FILM CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CURRENCY EXPORT TRADE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: VICKERS, MARCIA

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



612 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2944 words

HEADLINE: The June of Loren Easton

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
THEY were, by some accounts, the class of mediocrity. For Horace Mann School, an institution that routinely sends nearly half its graduates to Ivy League colleges, the class of '97 had stumbled badly. Instead of the usual 8 or 10 admissions to Harvard, the prestigious private school in Riverdale could boast of only 3 this year. Just one student would enroll at Dartmouth, down from five in '96. The number bound for Princeton had dropped to one from three.
They were the kind of numbers that weighed heavily on Loren Easton, the elected valedictorian, who was trying to write a commencement speech that would make sense of his class's middling performance. "All we cared about was getting into good colleges and we didn't even do that well," he said, walking past Horace Mann's expansive playing fields, the steamy June air thick with the scent of newly cut grass. Never mind that statistically, there was little difference between the classes of '96 and '97; 44 percent of his class was admitted to Ivy League schools, nearly the same as the year before. But the class of '97, Loren and other students felt, just didn't shine. "We're not like last year's senior class, which had so many geniuses, so many stars," he said. One '96 graduate of the north Bronx school had got the prestigious Presidential Scholar award, he said. 
 After 16 years at Horace Mann, Loren and many classmates had come to see themselves as the chosen ones, the academic elite, destined to become college presidents, C.E.O.'s, politicians and Pulitzer Prize winners (Horace Mann has 12 recipients among its alumni). Long considered one of the city's most rigorous private academies, the 110-year-old school isn't dubbed "Harvard Mann" without reason. Even its colors, crimson and white, reflect the school's expectations for its 1,600 students, many of whom enrolled as 2-year-olds. There are 10 applicants for each nursery school slot.
As he sat with the class dean, Barbara Berg, trying to hammer out his valedictory, Loren struggled with his topic, mediocrity, which he had come up with during spring break in Cancun.
"I think this is a wonderful opportunity to tackle something that is destructive to so many kids," Dr. Berg told Loren, a lanky 17-year-old, as he sat fidgeting in her office, a baseball cap shading his eyes. Even though she said she was pleased with the first draft of his speech, she thought he could go further, analyzing, perhaps even challenging, tightly held beliefs about how Horace Mann students measure achievement. "Even if you hold the same values, there's no reason you can't reflect on them in your speech," she said. But Loren was resisting anything too provocative, worried about upsetting parents, teachers and administrators of a school he loved. "It's a touchy subject," he said. "And besides, I wouldn't want to sound like a hypocrite."
In many ways, Loren Easton is not unlike thousands of other students who attend New York City's 70 independent schools. Driven, privileged and wise beyond their years, they spend their adolescence concerned with Scholastic Assessment Test scores and grade point averages, hoping to win a coveted spot in a blue-chip university. Theirs is a fiercely competitive world that prizes an Ivy League education above all else.
For some parents, a child's admission to a top-notch college validates the grueling application process imposed by the city's private schools, one that begins in nursery school, when 3-year-olds undergo aptitude tests and interviews and parents write essays about an offspring's precocity. Others see it as a long-awaited payback for years of tutors and college advisers, the four hours of homework a night and the $15,000 and up the best schools charge for tuition.
For others, it is a matter of status.
"Having a kid in Harvard makes great cocktail party chitchat," said Catherine Hausman, a co-author of "The Manhattan Family Guide to Private Schools."
Like New York itself, the city's leading private schools can seem like a Darwinian universe that embraces the richest and the smartest, a crucial first step in separating society's wheat from its chaff. Janet Jacobson, whose 10-year-old son was ejected from an all-boys school last month for problems resulting from attention deficit disorder, put it this way: "These schools mimic the corporate world: the weak and the flawed just don't make it. They feel like they're preparing you for the outside world, but I don't think these rules should apply to children."
As the cost of a private school education has grown -- Horace Mann's tuition doubled during the last decade, to $15,600 -- the pressure to produce Ivy Leaguers, some administrators say, has intensified. "It's tricky," said Horace Mann's head of school, Eileen Mullady. "As much as I hate all this emphasis on college acceptance, parents sometimes demand it."
In the end, students feel the pressure most heavily. All spring, talk of who got into what college fills Horace Mann's cafeteria. In May, the school newspaper publishes a map showing where each graduate plans to enroll. "There is something really weird about kindergartners wearing Harvard sweatshirts," said Ariana Mangual, 18, a student from East Harlem who attended Horace Mann on a scholarship. "I've never seen a place where people are so intent on knowing your grades. It some ways, it defeats the purpose of what an education is all about."
 
Aiming for the Top At an Early Age
 From an early age, Loren Easton knew where he belonged. When he was in sixth grade at Horace Mann, his father tried to persuade him to apply to Stuyvesant, the public high school for top students that he had attended. Stephen Easton, who said he wanted his son to experience a less sheltered, more heterogenous environment, even tried enticing Loren financially. "My dad said he would put four years' worth of tuition into the bank for me if I would switch to Stuyvesant," recalled Loren, a freckle-faced teen-ager who wears his copper hair in bangs. "But I knew no public school could offer what Horace Mann does."
Besides giving him the best education money can buy (students begin studying French and Spanish in first grade), the school has left him with a sense that the world is his oyster. "People say that the first year of Harvard is easier than Horace Mann," said Loren, who will attend the University of Pennsylvania in September.
The school also gave him an extra push when he needed it. Loren began his Horace Mann career with a speech impediment and poor reading skills, but the specialized staff turned an average student into Ivy League material. "Loren may not be brilliant -- can you believe a Jewish mother would say that? -- but Horace Mann has made him incredibly well rounded," said his mother, Anne. "I always tell Loren that the world is run by C students."
The only child born to Stephen and Anne Easton, Loren Scott Easton grew up on the 25th floor of a white brick apartment tower on 82d Street at York Avenue. Summers were spent at sleepaway camp, on trips to Europe or at the family's weekend home in East Hampton. "I always joke to him that in my next life, I want to come back as Loren," said his mother, who, like her husband, is a successful real-estate executive. But despite his comfortable upbringing, her son, she insists, was never overindulged.
Standing in his bedroom while he tinkered with his graduation speech, Mrs. Easton said that as a parent she encouraged independence and self-reliance at an early age. "When he was in first grade, I showed him the emergency button in the elevator, gave him $10 mugger's money, taught him the difference between 'Walk' and 'Don't Walk' and sent him on his way," she said. "I believe that if you fall on your face and pick yourself up, you're ahead of the game. But you can't learn anything if you don't fall."
The daughter of Holocaust survivors, Ms. Easton was born in Germany, grew up in Israel and immigrated to the United States with her parents at 13. The family settled on Pelham Parkway in the Bronx. She graduated from Taft High School and enrolled at Hunter College. When she became pregnant with Loren, she was working as an executive recruiter, and her employer, she said, asked her to conceal her pregnancy. "In those days, you couldn't be a mother and a successful executive," she said.
The son of a lawyer, Stephen Easton grew up on the Upper West Side and graduated from Columbia University. Since 1969, he has run his own commercial real-estate firm, Financial Packaging Companies. He has two children from his previous marriage and admits that his wife was more involved in Loren's upbringing than he.
This has been a particularly trying year for the Easton family. Mr. and Mrs. Easton are divorcing, and Mr. Easton says he plans on returning to his first wife. Although they intended to wait until Loren graduated before telling him they were separating, Ms. Easton broke the news the week her son received his rejection letter from Dartmouth, his first-choice school. "I guess I jumped the gun when I found out there was someone else in the picture," she said.
While Mr. Easton said he would have liked his son to go to Dartmouth, because of "the chic name" and its proximity to good skiing, he said he is content that Loren is going to Penn. Loren seems to have got over his rejection from Dartmouth. "It's not like it crippled me," he said, "but it was the first time anyone ever said no to me."
 
Senior Prom At the Pierre
 As in years past, Horace Mann's graduating class had their prom at the Pierre Hotel. Some students came in taxis; others arrived in stretch limousines, which idled at the curb like a school of beached whales. Inside, students dined and danced in the Pierre's princely ballroom overlooking Fifth Avenue. The girls wore Vera Wang or Nicole Miller dresses they had taken weeks to select. Many boys, like Loren, wore tuxedos that had hung in their closets for months.
"No other school has a prom like this," said Loren, as he escorted his date, a friend since early childhood, up the marble steps to the ballroom. After dessert, a group of 10 teen-agers piled into a rented limousine and were driven to the Eastons' Georgica Pond home for the weekend. Although there were no chaperones, Ms. Easton joked that the kids were so well behaved, they didn't even touch a bottle of vodka that had been left in the freezer.
Like most of his friends, Loren is serious, focused and well mannered. "I'm not a big partier," he said, as he drove his mother's white Jeep Cherokee through Harlem on his way to school. "I'm the kind of guy who has to be in bed by 10 o'clock." Loren, who turned 18 a week ago, will spend the summer as a research intern at Sotheby's. He said he was the only high-school student accepted to the program, after a friend's mother helped him get an interview.
A member of Horace Mann's Young Republican Club, Loren shares the conservative politics of his parents, who support the death penalty and oppose affirmative action. At school, he kept himself busy with extracurricular activities; he played baseball and football, was sports editor of the school newspaper and photo editor of the yearbook, and was in a half-dozen clubs. A tireless booster of Horace Mann, he often gave tours to prospective students.
Alternately gregarious and shy, urbane and naive, Loren has yet to have a serious girlfriend. Friends say he has come out of his shell only recently. "When he was younger, Loren was a bit chubby and had low self-esteem," said his best friend, Scott Alter, who lives at Park Avenue and 90th Street. He won the seven-way race for valedictorian, classmates said, because of his devotion to Horace Mann, his easygoing nature and his ability to move among the school's various cliques. "Loren epitomizes Horace Mann," said Jamie Catalano, a lifelong friend. "He's a real high achiever."
In a full-page congratulatory message they took out in his yearbook, the Eastons toasted a son who they once feared might not make it to graduation. "When you were young, we had our doubts," they wrote. "But as you went on, you proved yourself."
 
Trying to Change School's Stereotype

Perched on a hill overlooking Van Cortland Park, Horace Mann looks and feels like a small college campus. There are seven tennis courts, three playing fields, an impressive gymnasium and buildings with names like Tillinghast Hall, Loeb Library and Van Alstyne Theater. The main entrance is watched over by a crew of cardigan-wearing security guards.
Once solidly white, Jewish and affluent, Horace Mann has been changing in recent years. Members of minority groups, most of whom receive financial aid, now make up 20 percent of the student body. As the first woman to head the school, Eileen Mullady has embarked on significant changes since she was hired two years ago, encouraging the early retirement of some veteran teachers and spearheading construction of a new middle school. She is also trying to chip away at the perception of Horace Mann as an academic pressure cooker and an "Ivy League feeder." "I'd love to change the stereotypes, but reputations seem to have a 10-year life span," she said.
Some administrators were uncomfortable with Loren's valedictory, which they said only reinforced the stereotypes. The director of college counseling, Stephen Singer, said that in the last four or five years, the pressure for Ivy League admissions has only intensified, fueled by what many perceive as an increasingly cutthroat job market. "Parents and kids fall back on brand names," he said, "believing it is their security in an increasingly insecure economy." The president of Horace Mann's board, Michael Hess (class of '58), said he was "taken aback" by the topic of Loren's speech. "I'm at a loss to understand this obsession with Harvard and Yale," said Mr. Hess, a lawyer. "I don't remember the parents being this hysterical when I was at school."
For students, the hysteria peaks during January, around the time of early admissions. "You see kids running through the halls screaming with joy and others crying," said Jason Caldwell, who is going to Swarthmore. "It's shameful." Ariana Mangual agrees, adding that the stress sometimes turns friends into rivals. "Kids see each other as competitors, and they're always looking to see what extracurricular activities you're doing," said Ariana, who is going to Brown this fall. "If someone gets rejected from Harvard, all their friends will hate the person who got in."
Many students become aware of the college application game as freshmen or sophomores and join clubs, some confess, because they think it will beef up their college applications.
"Why do you think we have 65 clubs?" one student asked.
One faculty member said he knew of several juniors who had paid $3,000 to attend a summer program that helps underprivileged American Indians on reservations.
"Believe me, they would have rather been in the Hamptons, but they think these kinds of activities give them an edge," he said.
 
Standing Ovation For Nearly Perfect Speech
 Graduation day arrived and if Loren was feeling nervous about his speech, he wasn't showing it. "I just hope people laugh at my jokes," he said, sitting at his bedroom desk, with its bird's-eye view of the East River and the Triborough Bridge. Spread around his well-kept room, with its matching white furniture, were trophies, board games, a jar of pennies and a mound of baseball caps.
In contrast to Loren's calmness, Stephen Easton was feeling far from serene. "This is an emotional day for me," he said, trying to adjust his son's tie as he pulled away. It had been some time since the two had been together, and Loren seemed distant. Afterward he explained that he is still angry about the divorce, for which he blames his father. "I guess I get a little impatient with him at times," he said, then quickly changed the subject.
An hour later, the family was sitting under an immense blue and white tent pitched on the school's football field, fanning themselves in the 90-degree heat. After the Horace Mann Orchestra played "Pomp and Circumstance" and "America the Beautiful," Dr. Berg stood at the podium and introduced the valedictorian. As a few of his friends cheered and hooted, Loren bounded to the stage, his black tassel waving in front of his tortoise-shell-rimmed glasses.
His delivery was nearly perfect and the crowd chuckled at his well-timed wisecracks. But in the end, he chose to deal with the issue of mediocrity in a few short paragraphs. "Surely who we are is not measured at the ages of 17 and 18 by such an arbitrary thing as college," he told the audience. "The assessment says that you as a person are defined by where you will go to school. Does that mean I am also defined as a person by where I live and the color of my skin? I certainly hope not." He went on to highlight a handful of classmates -- a musician, an actress, a Web page designer -- who had excelled outside of school. "We have followed our passions and succeeded," he said near the end. "And that is what we should be measured by." He received a standing ovation. Several teachers told him it was the best valedictory in years. "Listening to him, I kept thinking, 'Loren should be a politician,' " his mother said.
Afterward, Loren explained why he had avoided more vigorously challenging the commonly held notions of mediocrity. "I thought it would have been inappropriate to shove it down their throats," he said. "A lot of people think that getting into the Ivy Leagues is very important. I guess I think that way too."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "No other school has a prom like this," Loren Easton said of Horace Mann's lavish dinner dance at the Pierre Hotel. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 1); SENIOR SNAPSHOTS Loren Easton and friends celebrated at their Pierre Hotel prom. Loren's parents, Anne and Stephen Easton, below left, took out a full-page yearbook ad, left, saluting their son's success. Loren struggled with his valedictory speech, finally devoting only a few paragraphs to challenging widely held notions of how Horace Mann students measure achievement. (pg. 10)
 
Table: "GEOGRAPHY: College-Bound"
Horace Mann's Class of '97 did not quite match the class of '96 in sending students on to Ivy League colleges: 53 for the class of '97 compared with 65 from the class of '96. But this spring's grads were not exatly slackers in college admittance. Here's a breakdown of the colleges attended by each class, Ivy League colleges in bold. Table lists college admittance for the classes of '96 and '97. (Source: Horace Mann School)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HORACE MANN SCHOOL (NYC) HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HORACE MANN SCHOOL (NYC) HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (58%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATE SCHOOLS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%); 

PERSON: EASTON, LOREN; JACOBS, ANDREW MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



613 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
New Jersey Is Betting The Future On Wall St.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
In the summer of 1982, with the stock market 22 percent below where it had been in 1966, stocks were understandably unpopular. In the 15 years since, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 895 percent. Now, stocks are so popular that a state government has opened a margin account.
New Jersey last week sold $2.8 billion in state bonds -- the largest single long-term municipal financing in history. The money will not go to build roads, schools or even sports stadiums. It will buy stocks. 
 And, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman is sure, those stocks will go up so fast that the state will come out ahead.
To be fair, this is not really a margin account. In such an account the loan is secured by the stocks themselves and by the borrower's credit. This borrowing is not secured by the stocks. Nor has New Jersey pledged any revenues or even its general obligation.
This borrowing is secured by nothing. It is what is known as an "appropriation bond." That means interest will be paid if, and only if, the state government decides to pay it.
"It does sound a little alarming, initially," conceded Sam Corliss, the chief muni bond official at Merrill Lynch, which was the lead underwriter for the bonds. But he quickly added that investors should have no fear. The bonds are insured by MBIA, Ambac and Financial Security Assurance, which share $27 million in premiums. They will have to pay if the state doesn't.
New Jersey's new bonds are not exempt from Federal income taxes, so it is paying rates as high as 7.6 percent, about two-thirds of a percentage point higher than Treasuries.
This deal reflects the state of both public finance and the financial markets in 1997. The state needed to do something to shore up an underfinanced state pension plan, but it could have borrowed far less had it not decided that it would also forgo making its regular contribution to the fund this year and next. That alone added $590 million to the borrowing, and freed up the same amount to be spent on other things.
The financial market story is familiar. What once would have seemed rank speculation now seems wise. Insurers see no problem in bonds unsecured by anything, and with no recourse if they are not paid. More and more investors believe stocks are a sure thing. A commission thinks the Social Security system should join New Jersey in betting its future on the corner of Wall and Broad Streets.
Tomorrow, New Jersey will get a check for $2.75 billion (what is left after fees) and will put the money into its pension system. That buying power will help push up share prices a bit more, as will purchases by stock mutual funds, which now bring in that much money every four days.
There is no particular sign that this great bull market will end soon. But there is a real question whether it will keep churning out big profits over the life of the New Jersey bonds. A future New Jersey governor may curse the day Governor Whitman found this clever way to balance the state budget.
But perhaps that governor will decide that since the speculation didn't work out, the pain should be shared with those who financed it. After all, the bonds carry only the promise that the Legislature will consider paying them. So the state might decide to meet its obligations by distributing depreciated shares of stock. It could tell the insurers to make up the difference.
Unthinkable? Of course. But that's also what people would have said in 1982 about a state borrowing to take a plunge in stocks.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Time to Buy?" shows percentage of Dow industrials since 1982 low.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (90%); MER (NYSE) (90%); 8675 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (87%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); BOND ISSUES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); TRENDS (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); INCOME TAX (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (58%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); NORRIS, FLOYD CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



614 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
Sober Speculation Amid the Partying About Hong Kong

BYLINE: By JON HILSENRATH 

DATELINE: HONG KONG

 BODY:
THE long-awaited hand-over of Hong Kong to China, now just two days away, will be marked by repeated shows of fireworks and all-night parties on the colony's picturesque mountain peak. But the party has already started for mutual funds investing in Hong Kong and China.
Powered by a bull market in Hong Kong, nearly all of the 10 mutual funds listed in the United States that focus their investments in Hong Kong and China have experienced gains of more than 30 percent in the last 12 months. That places them among the top-performing country funds in the investing world. The stellar performers -- including the open-end Fidelity Hong Kong and China fund and the closed-end Greater China fund -- have had returns of 45 percent or more in this period. 
 Despite the political uncertainties created by the hand-over, Hong Kong has become a safe haven of sorts for many Asian investors, who have been scared out of wobbling markets in Thailand, the Philippines and Korea. Investors have been reassured by China's slowing inflation rate and by the expectation that Chinese Communist Party officials will leave Hong Kong's markets alone.
These markets are an increasingly important source of capital for the mainland Chinese companies known as red chips, which have been the Hong Kong market's top performers in the latest leg of its two-year rally. The stocks of these companies, which are listed in Hong Kong but whose mainland assets are typically controlled by party officials in Chinese cities and provinces, have risen an average of 167 percent in the last 12 months, even though the companies' earnings have been paltry.
Ignoring the income statements, investors have pushed up the red chips on hopes that the companies' mainland connections will let them continue to get good deals on prime Chinese assets.
The question now is whether the party is about to end.
"There is a feeling of nervousness in the market at the moment," said Shane Norman, managing director of RCP & Partners, a consulting firm in Hong Kong that tracks Asian mutual funds.
"A lot of the institutional managers are saying that the market is in the grip of a red-chip fever," he said, adding that they think "the market might very well boil over and consolidate over the short term." Indeed, mainland regulators jolted Hong Kong investors earlier this month when they said they would begin scrutinizing red-chip deals more closely.
China funds, whose holdings tend to be concentrated in Hong Kong, would of course be vulnerable to a downturn in the market, although they are protected somewhat because their stakes in the volatile red chips tend to be limited -- typically constituting less than 30 percent of their total portfolios and often less than 10 percent.
A market decline would be nothing new for China fund managers. Since China began opening its financial markets in the early 1990's, investing in this growth area has been a roller-coaster ride. Many aggressive China funds that are doing well today -- like Jardine Fleming China Region, a closed-end fund whose net asset value has risen around 29 percent so far this year -- tumbled a few years ago when Chinese managers of listed state-owned enterprises did not deliver what they had promised and when Chinese authorities started slowing an overheated economy.
China Region saw its net asset value plummet 47 percent in just one year. "We sat through a blood bath," said Alexander Au, who manages the fund.
More conservative funds, run by the likes of Fidelity, Templeton and Guinness Flight, have been limited by their own large size and caution. Unable because of their size to invest a big portion of their portfolios in China's young, illiquid markets and wary of hybrids like the red chips, they have nested in less-volatile Hong Kong investments -- local property and financial stocks.
Some funds, like Templeton's two closed-end China funds and Guinness Flight's China and Hong Kong fund, have missed much of the most recent surge and have found again that the markets change quickly in this land of radical transitions.
"Yes, we have suffered in the short term," said Edmund Harriss, the manager of the China and Hong Kong fund. "But in the long term, a prudent policy is the more sensible one."
As of June 20, his fund was up 13.1 percent for 1997, a bit less than the 14.6 percent increase in Hong Kong's benchmark Hang Seng index and far behind the 60 percent rise in red-chip shares.
All this may not be too tempting to investors with no appetite for risk and who are making short- or medium-term investments. But even after last year's big run-up, these markets might be ripe for long-term investors to add to the $2.9 billion already placed in the United States-listed China funds.
Mr. Norman of RCP, who saw potential dangers in the short term, is among those who see good possibilities for long-term investing in China. "You'll still see overall better performance in these markets than you will in other parts of the world," he said.
William Tathan, director of Towry Law Investment Advisers in Hong Kong, agrees. "China has to be one of the great growth stories in Asia," Mr. Tathan said. "It may take many years to be successful, but a serious investor would be unwise not having some exposure to China."
CHINA'S economic policy is much more friendly to investors than it was a few years ago. In 1994, with inflation surging to more than 20 percent annually, China began tightening monetary policy, creating a cash shortage that squeezed the funds invested in the mainland's illiquid and volatile B-share market, the market open to foreign investors. But today, inflation has slowed to less than 10 percent, allowing the People's Bank of China to ease monetary policy, which in turn has fueled the market with cash. Fund managers say that will keep the China and Hong Kong stocks buoyant and the area's economies growing vigorously while many Asian markets struggle.
Moreover, Hong Kong's traditional blue-chip stocks -- the local finance and property companies that are so heavily represented in the portfolios of most of the China funds -- are still relatively cheap. Stocks on the Hang Seng index, which is dominated by the blue-chip stocks, are trading at an average of 15 times projected 1997 earnings, below the average of 17 for all of Asia minus Japan, according to Jardine Fleming.
Perhaps most important, fund managers are increasingly confident that China is serious about improving its financial system.
Consider the experience of J. Mark Mobius with Shanghai Tire and Rubber, a state-owned manufacturing company listed in China.
Mr. Mobius, manager of the Templeton Dragon fund and other emerging-markets funds, said that when he visited Shanghai Tire three years ago, it was overstaffed and its offices were in disarray. "Then, when you went in and asked questions about the company and what its plans were, they said, 'It is secret, why do you want to know this?' " he recalled.
But three months ago, he returned with plans to invest, and everything seemed to have changed. "The office was clean and orderly," he said. "People were busy at work. And management ushered us into the conference room and answered questions."
He added: "I think the Government told these guys there is no free lunch -- you are not going to get funding without getting results. They realized they needed capital to grow."
INVESTORS who are ready to board the China fund roller coaster might find some lessons in the recent past. Perhaps most important, they should realize that China funds come in significantly different shapes and sizes.
The larger funds, like Templeton Dragon, Guinness Flight China and Hong Kong and Fidelity Hong Kong and China, have their assets concentrated in Hong Kong. They tend to be less exposed to China's market -- and also have missed much of the recent rally tied to red chips. Smaller funds, like China Fund Inc. and Jardine Fleming's China Region fund, are more willing and able to put a higher percentage of their portfolios in the mainland. They might have good years, like 1997, but they can also have very bad ones, like 1994.
Investors should also be aware there are differences between closed-end and open-end funds that are particularly significant in this market. It might make good sense to invest in closed-end funds, which have a fixed number of shares and trade on exchanges, rather than in open-end funds, said William Whitt, an analyst at Morningstar Inc., the Chicago-based fund trackers. Closed-end funds are now trading at unusually high discounts to their net asset values, meaning that the market is placing less value on the funds than it is in the stocks the funds own. Investing in such a fund could offer investors a chance to get into these markets cheaply.
Mr. Whitt particularly favors the Greater China fund, which is trading at around a 24 percent discount to its net asset value, compared with a five-year average discount of 4.5 percent. He sees it as a good middle-ground fund -- somewhat aggressive but not taking wild chances in red chips.
Closed-end funds are also easier than open-end funds for managers to handle, Mr. Whitt said. When markets turn down, as they did in China a couple of years ago, open-end funds often suffer from redemptions by skittish investors. Sudden mass redemptions can force managers to sell their stocks, which can be difficult in illiquid markets. But a closed-end fund does not redeem shares; they trade on stock exchanges. So when investors sell, fund managers are not forced to sell shares of companies in their portfolios.
No matter what choices investors make, they should make their moves carefully, advisers say. "Invest some money now, and invest the remaining two-thirds over the next six months," said Towry's Mr. Tathan. "Some degree of prudence is required."
Patience and a seat belt seem to be in order, too.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Funds With a China Focus"
Chart shows the 10 funds listed in the United States that tend to have more than 80 percent of their invested assets in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HCN (LSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (92%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%); 

COMPANY: HONG KONG & CHINA GAS CO LTD (92%); HONG KONG & CHINA GAS CO LTD (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; HONG KONG; TAIWAN; HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BONDS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); INFLATION (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (64%); 

PERSON: HILSENRATH, JON E

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



615 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3418 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING IT;
Why Some Auditors Like the Taste of Leftovers

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
WANTED: auditor. Technology company, former target of class-action lawsuit, under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, has lost two Big Six accounting firms within the last year. Needs to resolve questions over its financial statements. Quickly.
When Pinnacle Micro Inc. announced in February 1996 that Coopers & Lybrand had quit as its auditor less than a year after Ernst & Young had resigned, its stock plummeted nearly 40 percent. Even so, Pinnacle's former chief executive, William F. Blum, assured investors that management was "confident" about the future and would find a new auditor shortly. 
 His assurances struck some listeners as wishful thinking. Auditors rarely walk away from their bread and butter, and resignations are often viewed by other auditors as a sign that something may be amiss at a company, anything from funny bookkeeping to personality clashes to questions about management's integrity. "It certainly raises enormous red flags," said Peter Frank, a vice chairman at Price Waterhouse. And after years of being embroiled in ugly lawsuits accusing them of failing to detect clients' accounting irregularities or securities frauds, the best-known and largest accounting firms are loath to take on companies that show the slightest hint of risk.
But despite being bounced by two of the nation's best-known accounting firms in relatively short order, Pinnacle Micro, a manufacturer of optical disk drives based in Irvine, Calif., was able to hire another auditor the next month: BDO Seidman, the ninth-largest accounting firm in the country.
Although the Big Six firms each have at least four times the number of partners as BDO's 223, BDO has emerged as the national firm that has inherited the greatest number of castoffs.
Competition in accounting is intense, and everyone takes a share of the rejects. "You have to grow this business," explained Patrick J. McDonnell, the vice chairman of business assurance for Coopers & Lybrand. "If you don't take leftovers from other firms, where are you going to get clients?"
The firm with the most leftovers on its plate, however, is BDO. From January 1994 through earlier this month, BDO was hired by companies representing 43 of the 546 resignations tracked by Public Accounting Report, an industry newsletter in Atlanta. Those 43 represent more than 15 percent, or nearly one out of six, of BDO's publicly held audit clients. In contrast, fewer than 2 percent of the Big Six's publicly traded clients are recent castoffs, and the Big Six have shucked more clients recently than they have added in castoffs.
"We pick up some; others pick up some," said Daniel L. Pavelich, BDO's chairman. "That's what happens."
Even after adjusting BDO's additions to reflect the 10 publicly traded clients it jettisoned over the same period, BDO still showed a net gain of 33 such clients, the highest of the firms studied by Public Accounting Report. All told, the firm now audits 279 public companies, roughly twice the number six years ago, the fastest rate of growth of any of the nine national firms.
BDO, which audits such well-known public companies as Barnes & Noble and Forest Laboratories of New York, plays down the disparities in the study as a statistical fluke. It says that the 43 companies it took on represent a meager 0.3 percent of the firm's 15,000 public and private clients and a modest fraction of its revenues. (Like all the accounting firms, BDO would not comment on specific clients or on the fees they generate.)
Besides, the firm contends that it and its rivals in what is known as the accounting industry's second tier are a natural choice for many small and mid-sized businesses because they can make a profit on them when the Big Six firms can't. And they beat the mom-and-pop firms on expertise. Edward E. Nusbaum, national director of assurance services for Grant Thornton, the seventh-largest firm, concurred. Many Big Six accountants "will not openly admit it, but if a company does not have the fees or growth or size, they just don't want to be bothered," he said. Since 1994, his firm has accepted 20 audit clients whose previous accounting firm had quit, for a net gain of 11 after deducting the 9 times that Grant Thornton broke things off with clients.
WHETHER to take on the auditing of a company abandoned by another firm is a puzzle faced by every firm in the accounting business. No firm wants to risk its reputation by linking up with a company whose bookkeeping practices could lead to scandal or the courthouse. By the same token, no firm lightly turns down an auditing contract that can easily turn into an annuity and may even bring lucrative consulting work in tow. A result of these conflicting pulls, at BDO and elsewhere, is a lot of hand-wringing and debate about where to draw the line.
It is not always an easy call. Despite tougher disclosure rules and a professional requirement that new auditors talk to their predecessors about the circumstances of the rupture, the extent of the departing firm's discomfort is often unclear to its would-be successor. Tougher still, if a company in crisis promises to purge the management team that caused all the trouble, why should a new accounting firm care about shenanigans that transpired before it came aboard?
BDO is by no means the only firm knocking on the door. Often, there is plenty of competition for the business. And while BDO takes a higher proportion of castoffs than its size may suggest, none of those 43 recent engagements has yet resulted in major litigation of any kind.
The smallest of the national firms, BDO recently moved from New York to Chicago. It was founded in 1910 by two brothers as Seidman & Seidman. A member of the Seidman family ran the firm until the mid-1970's, when L. William Seidman, the son of one of the founders, left his job as the firm's managing partner to join the Ford Administration. He went on to become chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation until retiring in 1991.
BDO grew rapidly during the 1980's, though revenue growth has sagged in recent years, industry observers say. Last year, BDO's partners elected a new chairman, Mr. Pavelich, a no-nonsense audit partner from Spokane, Wash., who has been at the firm for more than 25 years.
Mr. Pavelich denies that his firm has been any quicker than its peers in taking on discarded companies, saying BDO subjects all new clients to rigorous acceptance procedures. "We take on engagements that make business sense and do not expose the company to unusual risk," he said.
Sheer controversy and poor financial health, on the other hand, do not seem to automatically disqualify a company from being considered as a client.
Consider Pinnacle Micro. The company had already settled a class-action lawsuit against it. But Coopers' departure prompted further investigation by the S.E.C., which had been looking into the company's previous restatements of its financial results. In resigning, Coopers expressed concern over how Pinnacle had accounted for certain engineering costs.
The bad news wasn't over. The day after BDO signed on, Pinnacle also became the object of a second class-action lawsuit accusing it of improper accounting practices. Pinnacle denies the accusations.
Pinnacle has restated some of its results, addressing Coopers' initial concerns. Now, the S.E.C. investigation is close to being resolved, the company said, but the lawsuit is still active.
The company has earned a clean bill of health from BDO and undergone sweeping management changes. Yet, investors have had little to celebrate: Pinnacle reported nearly $21 million of losses for 1996. Its stock closed on Friday at $1.22 a share, compared with $8 when Coopers left.
Another orphan picked up by BDO was the Chantal Pharmaceutical Corporation, which had hired Coopers & Lybrand as its auditor to dispel questions that arose over the distribution of Chantal's products and the company's exact relationship with its distributor. Coopers never completed its study because it said it could not obtain the information it needed from the distributor "on a timely basis," according to the S.E.C. filing. Nor could the firm and Chantal sort out how to recognize revenue. When Coopers quit last year, it had not rendered an opinion on the matter.
In February 1996, Chantal was hit with a class-action lawsuit accusing it of having inflated its results. It is fighting the suit. (Coopers was also sued over its involvement with Chantal.)
Chantal has now changed how it books its sales, and BDO has signed off on Chantal's most recent statements. But Chantal is still making news. The company, whose stock closed at 98 cents a share on Friday, recently named five new board members, and a group of dissident shareholders recently sought to oust management.
Another BDO client, Nutrition for Life International, lost the services of a Big Six firm, KPMG Peat Marwick, as its auditor in April 1996 after its multilevel-marketing practices came under heightened scrutiny by the S.E.C.
Nutrition for Life's chief executive, David Bertrand, says that when the company found itself without an auditor, it wanted to find a replacement in a matter of days so investors would not have to wait long to find out that it had a new accountant. The company said it approached two other Big Six firms, but only one was interested in the business, and wanted too much time to complete its investigation of the company. BDO "did their due diligence very, very rapidly," Mr. Bertrand said.
BDO denies that it took any shortcuts. Jerry Walsh, a BDO spokesman, said, "BDO Seidman's due diligence on Nutrition for Life was extremely thorough."
BDO was not the only small firm interested enough to move quickly, of course. Nutrition for Life says it also talked to three other firms, including Grant Thornton, and says it selected BDO largely on the basis of its expertise in multilevel marketing. Grant Thornton said it was unable to comment.
The S.E.C. inquiry was dropped, according to Nutrition for Life, but the company faces accusations in class-action lawsuits on both the state and Federal level that it was operating a pyramid scheme. The company, which denies the allegations, agreed to a preliminary settlement of both lawsuits for at least $3 million earlier this year.
NO one is accusing BDO of being careless in its choice of these clients, and the firm says its operating procedures are as strict, and its ethical standards as pristine, as anyone else's in the industry. It eagerly cited two recent cases in which it chose not to bid on business that it says would have brought in $1.6 million in fees.
Even more important, it noted that it is not involved in any major litigation surrounding any of the 43 companies in the Public Accounting Report study whose previous auditor had resigned. "Our litigation record and experience historically makes us among the most prudent and highly skilled technical firms in the business," said Scott M. Univer, BDO's general counsel.
BDO's track record in avoiding lawsuits, in fact, is better than that of many other national firms. During the flurry of litigation over the savings and loan crisis, for example, "they were one firm that didn't get sued," recalled Mr. Seidman, whose experience as a regulator led him to write a book about the savings and loan debacle, "Full Faith and Credit."
Even so, the firm has been sued occasionally over audits for clients other than the 43 tracked by Public Accounting Report.
BDO was hired in 1996 by Presstek Inc., a printing technology concern that is technically not a castoff because it dismissed its previous auditors at Deloitte & Touche after a disagreement over how to tell investors about an S.E.C. investigation into Presstek's stock.
BDO is now being sued by shareholders who say that Presstek overstated its earnings when BDO allowed Presstek to use a faulty way of accounting for the tax benefits from stock options. BDO contends that it should have never been named in the lawsuit and that the lawsuit is not relevant in looking at how it screens clients.
BDO recently settled with shareholders of another client, the New York retailer Leslie Fay Companies, agreeing to pay $8 million out of a $34.7 million settlement over its role in failing to detect accounting fraud at Leslie Fay. BDO maintains that its audits complied with professional standards and that it settled only for economic reasons.
Jennifer Convertibles was another audit client that got a bit messy. As the company's auditor back in fiscal 1993, BDO is facing a class-action lawsuit contending that Jennifer's results that year were suspect. BDO quit the account in September 1994, disclosing its own concerns about the company's accounting at the time. "We don't intend to settle," said Mr. Univer, BDO's general counsel. "We intend to win the lawsuit because the claims are not meritorious."
Certainly, if an auditor can collect enough in fees to devote extra bloodhounds to the job, it is easy to see why some firms would be willing to take their chances.
Arthur Andersen, for example, the nation's largest accounting firm, has accepted 31 discards since 1994, the largest number among the Big Six, according to Public Accounting Report. "Arthur Andersen is often seen as the white knight," especially in sorting out the problems of troubled companies, said Brian McGreevy, an industry analyst for the newsletter.
But it is often able to charge premium prices and tell management to clean house. At Northstar Health Services, a small health care company in Pennsylvania that has been the subject of a flurry of lawsuits and management upheaval, Andersen came in as auditor last year after KPMG quit. KPMG said it believed that the company lacked the necessary internal controls to produce reliable financial statements. Andersen would not comment, but Northstar said Andersen's fee for sorting through the company's accounting was in excess of $400,000 -- five times what Northstar said it paid for the most recent audit.
TO be sure, no fee is high enough to compensate a firm if it has to spend millions of dollars in settlements. Andersen says it employs a staff of about 20 to screen prospective clients' financial condition and internal controls and to investigate management. Of the 31 companies it took on whose previous auditor had resigned, about a third could be considered risky, said James Hooton, an Arthur Andersen partner. The firm says it demanded, and obtained, major changes in most of these new clients' accounting policies or management practices before it would take them on. None of its relationships with the 31 clients have resulted in any major litigation against the firm.
Andersen also pruned 47 clients from its own roster in the same period it was adding 31 orphans, for a net loss of 16.
In BDO's case, the firm says fees from the 43 orphaned clients it took on represent a tiny piece of its business. It, too, says it subjects all prospective clients to a rigorous review that encompasses everyone from the company's underwriter to the source who referred the business, often the company's lawyer or investment banker. The firm even hires investigators to look into the company's management, and there are extensive discussions with the previousauditor if the firm resigned.
BDO says it also pushes occasionally for changes at the top or new accounting practices as a condition of accepting discarded clients. Once changes have been made, it says, subsequent audits are usually straightforward.
What it all adds up to is that while BDO and, to a lesser extent, Grant Thornton have been adopting the orphans, the Big Six firms -- Arthur Andersen, Coopers & Lybrand, Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & Young, KPMG Peat Marwick and Price Waterhouse -- have become more discriminating. They account for the majority of all resignations and are taking fewer castoffs. While they took 23 percent of clients discarded by other firms in 1994, according to Public Accounting Report, they took only 20 percent of the rejects last year. The second-tier firms, by contrast, increased their share of discards from 15 percent in 1994 to 17 percent last year.
"WHAT was the pressure in the '80's?" Mr. McDonnell from Coopers asked about the Big Six attitude back then. "Grow the business. Hours."
What changed their minds? Getting sued, for starters. The Big Six estimated that they spent roughly $1 billion, about a tenth of their total revenues, in legal costs, judgments and settlements in 1993. That does not begin to cover the harm to their reputations. "The top six are so concerned about getting their images tarnished that they are not willing" to take on discarded firms, said Allan M. Rabinowitz, a professor of accounting at Pace University.
Coopers, for example, takes a much tougher stance than it did in the past, Mr. McDonnell contended, and the numbers bear him out. The firm has resigned from 71 engagements since 1994 and picked up only 27 orphans, for a net loss of 44, the largest of any firm studied.. And Coopers seems to be getting pickier. Since last fall, it has accepted only two clients rejected by other auditors. Coopers says it has also changed the way it compensates its partners, to reduce the pressure to bring in new business.
This new attitude has only created opportunities for firms like BDO. As an example of how BDO sometimes rushes in where others fear to tread, consider Spectrum Information Technologies Inc., a once obscure Long Island high-technology company that made big waves in October 1993 by hiring John Sculley, the former chairman of Apple Computer, to take the helm.
Spectrum had dismissed Arthur Andersen after the firm raised concerns over its internal controls, and replaced Andersen with KPMG.
Events at the company soon took a nasty turn, however, and in February 1994, Mr. Sculley resigned, saying that he had been deceived about the company's grave accounting problems and kept in the dark about an S.E.C. investigation. Spectrum responded by accusing Mr. Sculley of breaking his contract.
KPMG lost little time following Mr. Sculley out the door. Spectrum yet again had to hunt for an accountant, telling investors in a news release that it intended to hire another Big Six firm. But this time the going was a lot tougher. Coopers, for instance, said it declined to bid. Spectrum declined to comment.
But BDO went ahead. In May 1994, it took the job -- and since then, Spectrum has worked hard to clean house. A new chief executive and directors arrived in December 1994. Various legal actions were resolved against the company. And Spectrum emerged from bankruptcy earlier this year and engineered a 75-to-1 reverse stock split aimed at getting its stock out of the pennies. On Friday, the stock closed at $3.75 a share.
Still, helping the forsaken is a niche with less and less appeal. For second-tier firms, the quandary is especially difficult given that they do not get to audit their fair share of freshly public companies. Underwriters often insist that the signature on the books be a Big Six firm.
The two other second-tier national firms, Grant Thornton and McGladrey & Pullen, have tax and consulting practices to fall back on. But BDO is more reliant on auditing engagements, a more mature and typically less-profitable business. Just over half of BDO's $211 million in revenues comes from auditing, for example, compared with 44 percent for Grant Thornton and 34 percent for McGladrey.
The other second-tier firms "have successfully shown profit and growth in the last two years," said Jay Nisberg, an industry consultant in Ridgefield, Conn.
MR. PAVELICH, BDO's chairman, acknowledges that he would like to see the firm bring in more consulting projects and reduce its reliance on auditing. In the meantime, the firm says it is quite healthy and has the highest profits-per-partner figure in its history, though that feat was accomplished in part by slashing the number of partners by one-fifth.
And for now, BDO Seidman is the leading auditor for publicly traded companies whose previous auditor has resigned. Mr. Seidman, whose family name is still on the door of the firm, emphasized that as long as BDO's standards of audit are not compromised, there is nothing wrong with its strategy. "Those companies have to have an auditor to continue," he said. Somebody has to do it -- and that somebody appears to be BDO Seidman.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "The Hot Potato Quotient"
Every accounting firm drops a public client now and then, or picks up a client another auditor has dropped. But while the biggest firms have been dropping more such clients than they pick up, two second-tier firms have been doing the reverse. Chart shows figures for resignations and for pickups of public clients cast off by other auditors from Jan. 1, 1994, through June 11, 1997, ranked by the number of castoffs each firm picked up.
 
"Clients With a Past"
Since January 1994, BDO Seidman has picked up 43 publicly traded clients whose previous accounting firms quit. None of the 43 engagements has yet resulted in major litigation against BDO. Some, like these examples, have rather daunting histories.
 
K-V Pharmaceutical
 
FORMER AUDITOR Coopers & Lybrand
RESIGNED May 21, 1996
 
WHAT HAPPENED Coopers said K-V's fiscal 1994 and 1995 reports should no longer be relied upon. The firm expressed concern over how K-V was amortizing certain costs and how it accounted for a transaction in 1996. K-V said its relationship with Coopers had become incompatible.
 
SINCE THEN BDO Seidman did not make K-V change its accounting practices and signed off on its fiscal 1996 financial statements, which showed gains in revenue and profits.
 
Chantal Pharmaceutical
 
FORMER AUDITOR Coopers & Lybrand
RESIGNED Aug. 5, 1996
 
WHAT HAPPENED Coopers and Chantal disagreed over how to account for some reshipped products during fiscal 1996; the company revised its financial statements. Coopers was also asked to examine the company's revenue recognition policy, but could reach no conclusion, and could not complete a report on Chantal's distributor because it said it was not being given necessary information on a timely basis. Chantal is also the subject of a class-action lawsuit filed by stockholders in February 1996, accusing Chantal of overstating its revenues.
 
SINCE THEN Chantal revised how it booked certain revenues, and BDO gave its fiscal 1996 financial statements a clean bill of health. The lawsuit is still pending. Dissident shareholders have tried to take over the company.
 
Nutrition for Life International
 
FORMER AUDITOR KPMG Peat Marwick
RESIGNED April 9, 1996
 
WHAT HAPPENED Without citing accounting disagreements, the firm resigned after Nutrition for Life announced that the Securities and Exchange Commission was looking at its multilevel marketing practices.
 
SINCE THEN The company says the S.E.C. has dropped its investigation. The company has reached preliminary settlements in class-action lawsuits accusing it of operating a pyramid sales scheme, accusations the company denies.
 
Spectrum Information Technologies
 
FORMER AUDITOR KPMG Peat Marwick
RESIGNED Feb. 8, 1994
 
WHAT HAPPENED John Sculley, former chairman of Apple Computer, was hired as chairman in October 1993. Mr. Sculley quit in February 1994, complaining that he had not been informed of questionable accounting methods or an S.E.C. investigation. KPMG resigned shortly afterward, having advised Spectrum that it needed to restate its financial statements.
 
SINCE THEN Spectrum named a new chief executive officer and board of directors in December 1994 and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 1995. It emerged from bankruptcy in March 1997, resolved the major lawsuits against it and underwent a 75-to-1 reverse stock split.
 
Monterey Pasta
 
FORMER AUDITOR Arthur Andersen
RESIGNED Dec. 18, 1995
 
FORMER AUDITOR Deloitte & Touche
RESIGNED Oct. 18, 1996
 
WHAT HAPPENED Andersen and Monterey disagreed about the company's accounting policy in 1995; though they say they resolved their differences, Andersen resigned and Deloitte & Touche took its place in late December. Ten months later, after the company's chief executive and three board members resigned, Deloitte also resigned. Deloitte said it would re-evaluate its 1995 opinion to see whether it needed to refer to any doubts over the company continuing as a going concern.
 
Deloitte also alerted the company to possible violations of Monterey's policy on insider trading by current and former board members. The company found reason to believe one former director might have broken securities laws and a current director might have violated company policy, and turned the matter over to its outside attorneys, who are completing an investigation.
 
SINCE THEN BDO signed off on the company's fiscal 1996 financial statements.
 
Pinnacle Micro
 
FORMER AUDITOR Ernst & Young
RESIGNED March 30, 1995
 
FORMER AUDITOR Coopers & Lybrand
RESIGNED Feb. 20, 1996
 
WHAT HAPPENED In 1994, Ernst & Young discovered possible errors or irregularities in how the company calculated revenue. The firm resigned in 1995 and withdrew its fiscal 1993 opinion because of a lack of independent documentation and because it was unwilling to rely on management's statements. Pinnacle's next auditor, Coopers, resigned in 1996, advising the company that it should restate its financial statements. Pinnacle became the subject of an S.E.C. investigation over its accounting.
 
SINCE THEN Pinnacle brought in new management and restated its financial statements last year. The company says the S.E.C. investigation is close to being resolved. The com-pany became the subject of a securities-related class-action lawsuit, which is pending. Pinnacle's current auditor, BDO, gave its 1996 financial statements a clean bill of health.
 
(Sources: S.E.C. filings; company reports)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PNCL (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: BDO SEIDMAN; PUBLIC ACCOUNTING REPORT (PUB) BDO GLOBAL COORDINATION BV (92%); PINNACLE MICRO INC (84%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: BDO SEIDMAN; PUBLIC ACCOUNTING REPORT (PUB) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; COMPANY REPORTS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (93%); ACCOUNTING (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); AUDITS (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (50%); 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED WILLIAM F BLUM (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



616 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION: Road Dividers;
The Vehicle for Upward Mobility

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
OVER the last quarter century, affluent families have become increasingly able to insulate themselves from the rest of society. Nearly four million Americans now live in gated communities. Private schools have become wildly popular. Even the humble sport of walking has changed, as treadmills at chic health spas supplant trails in public parks.
And then there are the Jeeps. 
 As the distance -- physical and financial -- between rich and poor grows, so does the appeal of the sport utility vehicle. Chevrolet Suburbans and Ford Expeditions amply protect their occupants from the outside world while holding the allure of vacations in beautiful and remote places where lesser cars cannot tread.
 
The Two-Taurus Road Hog
 Auto makers, practically dizzy from the profits, are planning a new generation of even bigger road hogs, including a jumbo 19-foot Ford -- two feet longer than an Expedition and roughly twice the weight of a Taurus.
Some environmentalists and energy experts warn that the American auto industry could be cruising for another bruising. They suggest parallels with the early 1970's, when dealers were caught with lots full of huge coupes, sedans and station wagons that nobody wanted when gas prices soared.
But the apparent parallels may be deceptive. While the actors in sport utility vehicle ads wear flannel shirts and hiking boots like a uniform, the people who buy the vehicles, more often wearing suits while driving them to work, are so well-heeled that they may go on buying their automotive leviathans even if gas prices climb again.
Buyers of large sport utility vehicles have a median household income of $85,600. Typical buyers of the Range Rover and Lexus LX450, two of the highest-priced models, have household incomes of $360,000. The average buyer of a Chevrolet Suburban earns slightly more than the average Cadillac buyer.
Higher gas prices have little effect on such buyers. Take, for example, someone who drives 10,000 miles a year and is choosing between a Jeep Grand Cherokee that gets 14 miles to the gallon in the city and a Ford Escort that gets 28 miles to the gallon. Even if gasoline prices rise by $1 a gallon, the extra cost in gasoline is only $357.14 a year, or $29.76 a month.
As Richard C. Porter, a professor of economics at the University of Michigan, explained, "The rich can afford not to plan for price shocks because prices are not going to be shocking."
One reason the oil crises of the 1970's hurt car sales so badly is that the distribution of income was more even then. Even the relatively affluent, who buy a lot of new cars, noticed at least some effect on their pocketbooks then from higher gas prices.
 
Gains at the Top
 But since then, the most affluent households have enjoyed large income gains. Adjusted for inflation, the average annual income of households at the 95th percentile climbed to $183,044 in 1994, the most recent year available, from $126,903 in 1973. During the same period, the median household income fell a few hundred dollars after adjusting for inflation, to $33,178 -- roughly the price tag on a well-equipped Suburban.
To be sure, many buyers of sport utility vehicles are not so affluent. Market research shows that a quarter of all households that buy the hulking GMC Yukon and Chevrolet Tahoe, for instance, earn less than $50,000 a year. Some of them might switch to cars during an energy crunch.
Even the rich might stop buying sport utility vehicles if gasoline ever becomes scarce again. During the first oil crisis in 1973 and 1974, sales of Cadillacs nose-dived when long lines formed at gas stations and buyers worried about how many miles they could drive before filling up again. Cadillac sales quickly rebounded when the lines disappeared, even though prices stayed high.
Any increase in Federal fuel-efficiency standards could also threaten sport utility vehicles, which are classified as light trucks. Current standards are lower for light trucks than for cars, an important reason why sport utility vehicles have grown so big, tall and heavy that they protect their own occupants well while posing a growing danger in collisions with cars, according to the Transportation Department.
Yet the vehicles' height offers another advantage for would-be masters of the universe: owners can literally look down on less affluent car drivers. In catering to prosperous buyers, dealers have a name for the high seating position, a name that appeals to snobbery.
They call it "the command position."

GRAPHIC: Photo: They're huge and getting huger. A Lincoln Navigator at the Wayne, Mich., plant. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; UTILITY VEHICLES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); FAMILY (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); HIKING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); SEDANS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (64%); GASOLINE MARKETS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



617 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: Stolen Thunder;
China-Basher Bashes Bashing

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN; Richard Bernstein is a book critic of The New York Times. He has covered China for The Times and Time Magazine, and is the author of "From the Center of the Earth: The Search for the Truth About China" (Little Brown, 1982).

 BODY:
THE House of Representatives declined to cancel most-favored-nation trading status for China last week, but that does not mean the debate over the world's biggest country -- which will become a bit bigger when it takes over Hong Kong on Tuesday -- is going to die away.
Indeed, China has come to generate more heated commentary these days than any other foreign policy issue, more than NATO membership, more than the Middle East, more than Cuba or Nafta. 
 This marks a major change. For a quarter century, a bipartisan consensus prevailed on China. The tumultuous debate about the country now indicates that that consensus, which lasted almost uninterrupted from Richard Nixon's trip to China in 1972, has now broken down.
Why? I ought to know the answer to that question if only because, along with Ross H. Munro, I recently wrote a book, "The Coming Conflict With China," that challenged some of the assumptions on which the China consensus had rested.
Mr. Munro and I expressed skepticism about the belief that normal trade and cultural relations with China would make China more democratic and friendlier to the United States. We argued that China after the cold war and the collapse of the common Soviet enemy was looking more and more like an American rival, and very likely the chief American rival of the indefinite future.
That conclusion, I believe, remains valid.
And yet it has been disconcerting to see that as the consensus has broken down, the discourse on China has become radicalized.
A new book with the self-explanatory title "The Background to the Demonization of China," written by a group of Chinese former students in the United States, has been a recent best seller in China. The book seems to illustrate the very xenophobic hypersensitivity that Mr. Munro and I identified as a cause of worry about China. And yet some statements being made these days have made me at least understand the concept announced in the book's title.
When the House minority leader Richard Gephardt, for example, announced that China's export economy was driven by two million slave laborers locked away in prisons, it seemed that the debate was being detached from its factual moorings.
When Mr. Munro and I began conceptualizing our position in the wake of the Taiwan Strait crisis of a year ago (when the United States sent two aircraft carriers to the western Pacific during provocative Chinese military exercises near Taiwan), we believed we were going to nail down one end of an emerging spectrum of views on China.
Now we find ourselves clinging to a kind of middle position -- somewhere between those who advocate full engagement and those who see China, incorrectly in our view, as a new incarnation of the old Soviet expansionist menace that must be "contained" at all cost.
AMONG the statements I've heard in recent radio interviews, for example, was this one: "China doesn't just want to dominate Asia, it has a master plan to dominate the world, doesn't it?" Then there have been the many radio talk show hosts, especially in California, who portray China's interest in leasing a former naval base in Long Beach for its state-owned shipping company as a national security threat.
China's ambition, fueled by powerful nationalist yearnings, is to become the dominant power of Asia. It has engaged in reckless arms proliferation policies, seized islands in the South China Sea, threatened to retake Taiwan with military force and built up a Japan-style trade surplus with the United States using Japan-style protectionism.
But China does not entertain any ambition to dominate the world; nor does it have the resources to entertain such an ambition. On more specific issues, for a country that will export more than $60 billion worth of products to the United States, it is understandable for its shipping company to lease wharf space in California, and activities there will presumably be monitored by American Government agencies. Even on the human rights front, where there is no question that China's record is very bad, the idea that its economy rests on prison labor is a nightmare invented at the radical edge of the human rights movement.
Most of China's exports are made in the special economic zones created in coastal areas; they are not made in its jails.
THE breakdown of the China consensus seems to have several origins, one of them being the emergence of an odd coalition on the American political scene. It consists of leftist human rights advocates, rightist former cold warriors, Christian conservatives upset by China's abortion policies and by the persecution of Christians, and politicians striving to use China to draw attention to themselves in much the same way that Bill Clinton did in his first election campaign, when he criticized the Bush Administration for "coddling the dictators."
But Mr. Clinton's 180-degree turnabout is another element in the breakdown of the China consensus and in the shrill tone of the debate. The change, which was fostered in large part by intense business lobbying supported by China itself, helped create an impression that China needed only to hold firm and promise big profits for American business, and it could roll over the United States on questions that are important to it.
The image of China as a repressive, opportunistic country growing rapidly in both military and economic power and holding to practices and values inimical to those of the United States is not even seriously in dispute. The question is: What to do? Some have enlisted "The Coming Conflict" as support for a policy that would try to change China's behavior by condemnation and punishment alone, but that is not what Mr. Munro and I advocated.
What we did advocate was preparedness toward China and the prospect that its ambitions could swing the Asian balance of power in its favor, especially if it seizes more islands in the South China Sea or takes Taiwan by force.
But we also doubted that China could be bludgeoned into submission on human rights, or trade, or arms proliferation, or any of the other problems the United States has with it, with a policy of punishment and condemnation alone. That is the part of the argument that some of the more hard-line figures in the China debate have neglected even as they have enlisted our book in their cause.
Perhaps our title, chosen not to enlist anyone but to reflect the truth, played a role in that. The lesson here is that a writer cannot control the appropriation of his work, even by people he would want as allies, especially when emotions run strong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: COMING CONFLICT WITH CHINA, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (93%); HONG KONG (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (66%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; TAIWAN; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (93%); HONG KONG (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (66%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLD WAR (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (60%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, RICHARD; MUNRO, ROSS H RICHARD NIXON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



618 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1631 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: Geography and Independence Matter;
There Is (Was?) No Place Like Hong Kong

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

 BODY:
There does not appear the slightest probability that, under any circumstances, Hong Kong will ever become a place of trade. It is worse than folly to persist in a course begun in error, and which, if continued, must eventually end in disappointment and in national loss and degradation.
-- Robert Montgomery Martin, the British colonial treasurer, reporting home during a visit to Hong Kong in 1844. 
SO perhaps not every Brit who sailed into the glorious cavern of Victoria Harbor after the Opium War immediately grasped the magnificence of what his country had just stolen. Eventually, though, the defenders of the 19th century's biggest drug cartel figured the place out. And even today, at a time when business lives by modem, Hong Kong serves as living proof that in politics, trade and the creation of great cities, geography still matters.
 
Magic
 Though many have tried -- from Singapore to Vancouver to Taipei -- no one has ever managed to replicate the formula that transformed Hong Kong from a steep, humid, scarcely populated island into one of the world's capitals of commerce.
But what exactly is the magic of Hong Kong? Its success, of course, is all about proximity -- to the most complex, the most infuriating and now the fastest-growing emerging market on earth. The source of its dynamism, though, is far more complex. Hong Kong thrived precisely because it was on the edge of, but never mired in, the politics and turmoil of China. That separateness allowed it to create one of the world's most wired, global cities -- a narrow, ridiculously crowded place where Western law, Asian culture, Japanese design, American financing and greed from seven continents all mixed together to make money.
So China celebrates Hong Kong's return not only because it ends a century and a half of humiliation, but because the barren island it lost to gunship diplomacy returns to Chinese control tomorrow as the city of the future. The question is whether the magic can survive the transition.
When Britain's sovereignty ends amid fireworks and network-TV special reports at midnight on June 30 -- noon on the East Coast of the United States -- so does the detachment that long insulated Hong Kong from the political control, rampant corruption and endemic cronyism of modern-day China. But it may take decades to answer the question looming over the ceremonies -- whether as Hong Kong and China converge, the country will come to look more like the island or the island more like the country.
In the sunny study of his official mansion recently, Christopher Patten, the 28th and last Governor of Hong Kong, who will sail into the sunset tomorrow as President Jiang Zemin and his army take control, framed the issue this way: "In 10 years' time, will Hong Kong be more than just the richest city in China?"
"The way China treats Hong Kong," he added, "goes to the heart of what China will be like -- whether it can move from boomtown capitalism to a well-regulated, sophisticated economy that is able to accommodate political change."
Both China and the Hong Kong tycoons who have spent millions preparing the ground for its assumption of control say such comments are arrogant. It is Chinese energy more than British foresight that made Hong Kong, they argue, and that explains why Hong Kong's per capita income, an astounding $27,500 last year, long ago outstripped Britain's. Having battled Mr. Patten's five-year campaign to create democratic institutions, one of the city's pro-Beijing millionaires suggested recently that Mr. Patten's departure tomorrow night will be his greatest contribution to Hong Kong's future.
The markets don't exactly disagree: they hit heights last week so dizzying that the head of the colony's central bank, in his last act as a servant of the Crown, offered a warning to investors against "undue exuberance."
 
An Elusive Formula

The truth, though, is that no one is quite sure what will happen to Hong Kong because no one is quite sure which ingredients made it both Asia's greatest trading center and one of the world's most captivating cities. Maybe it's the majesty of the setting -- the glass set against rock, the winding streets, the cacophonous markets improbably etched into a mountain rising from the South China Sea. Or perhaps the style of the place -- the chic restaurants, the escalators that run at double speed so that no one is late to a deal, the Mao watches (his mechanical hand waves once a second), the impish spirit that gives rise to fast-food restaurants named the Deli Lama.
Or maybe it is the sight of starched investment bankers and dock workers simultaneously yammering into cell phones in English and Cantonese on the lumbering Star Ferry, where a commute across the worlds most fascinating harbor still costs only 13 cents.
Those are all images television viewers can expect to see today and tomorrow. But the formula that has made Hong Kong work -- first as a British outpost in Asia and then as a Chinese city with American and Japanese capital and British eccentricities -- is far more opaque.
The obvious factor is location: Hong Kong is a quick boat and train ride from the biggest labor force and the biggest market on earth, yet it has not had to pay the social costs of sustaining either. But there is more.
British rule of law created an advanced framework for capitalism in Hong Kong before anyone thought that capitalism comes in different flavors -- Asian, Western, global. British law meant the markets were regulated well enough so that investors were willing to take the risk of putting their money into companies. It meant companies were willing to sign contracts, knowing that they could seek enforcement through an independent judiciary where precedent mattered more than who your friends were.
 
Low Taxes, Iron Hand
 Those were only the start. Hong Kong's taxes are among the lowest in the developed world. Until Mr. Patten introduced his democratic reforms, which China now threatens to undo, the territory was ruled with an iron hand that limited domestic politics, eliminating a distraction from making money. (This is an inconvenient fact for those in Washington who argue that democracy is integral to Hong Kong's economic success.)
None of the country's productive resources went toward national defense -- that was Britain's problem. Nor was it spent on a burdensome social security system. That's why Hong Kong's phenomenal wealth -- count the Daimlers parked outside the bars of Wanchai -- is mixed with considerable urban squalor, a jarring contrast that the territory's new, Beijing-appointed leader, Tung Chee-hwa, says is no longer acceptable.
It's no wonder that Milton Friedman, the famed economist, once said that "If you want to see capitalism at work, go to Hong Kong."
There are many imitators, but none has quite pulled off another Hong Kong. A few years ago, Vancouver, another spectacular city on the sea, was a favorite site for jet-setting "astronauts" who insured themselves against China's takeover of Hong Kong by establishing residencies in that safe corner of the British Commonwealth.
The sleepy Canadian outpost benefited from an injection of capital, entrepreneurial spirit and great Cantonese restaurants. But Canada and Confucianism were a marriage of convenience. Astronauts earned their title by parking their families and their brokerage accounts on Vancouver's quiet streets and rocketing back to the fray.
Taiwan, where the British briefly considered building a Hong Kong when the island was still known as Formosa, also aspired to be a great financial center. It succeeded at creating tremendous wealth. But until recently it had no direct trade links to China. That limitation, combined with tremendous trade barriers, deep corruption, huge defense costs and deeply divisive politics, meant Taiwan never made the leap.
 
Singapore: Tough Option
 Hong Kong closest real rival is Singapore, another glittering, onetime British colony, which impresses first-time visitors with its cleanliness, efficiency, spectacular airport and corruption-free traditions. Its location, between Indonesia and Malaysia, takes second place to Hong Kong's.
But while Hong Kong is about risk, Singapore is about order. It is run by control freaks who believe prosperity can proceed quite nicely, thank you, without political freedom -- which is exactly why the Chinese so admire the "Singapore model." In response, American and British officials are telling the Chinese that politics and economics cannot be separated if the aim is a truly vibrant market that investors around the world will trust; they have to know they can wake up in Hong Kong and read about a financial scandal in Jiang Zemin's family, then flip on CNN and see uncensored footage of an uprising in Tibet.
China clearly has its own ideas about Hong Kong's future, and most involve Shanghai. For years now, China has been importing what it likes from Hong Kong -- the stock market, the glitz, the entrepreneurial spirit -- but it has left behind the political freedom, strict regulations and clean courts that Western investors demand. It is unclear whether the ultimate plan is to supplant Hong Kong as the international financial center or simply use Shanghai as a faucet to tap the savings of Chinese in a market that requires less disclosure and runs by Chinese rules.
And what of Hong Kong? Perhaps its tycoons are right: all this handwringing is the preoccupation of a Western press fixated on individual liberties instead of common prosperity. Or perhaps Hong Kong's first newspaper, Friend of China, was closer to the truth in 1842 when it said Hong Kong was destined to "revolutionize, or subvert, the existing state of things in China."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hong Kong was just a fishing village in the mid-19th century when it fell into British hands. Times have changed. Views of Victoria Harbor, past and present. (Corbis-Bettmann; Reuters)(pg. 1); Hong Kong in transition: an unexcited couple reflect...the forced excitement of public advertising on a local bus...a street sweeper passing a store displaying souvenir kitsch...and a style of public dissent that might no longer be tolerated. (Photographs by Jeffrey Aaronson/Network Aspen)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: HONG KONG & CHINA GAS CO LTD (58%); HONG KONG & CHINA GAS CO LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; CHINA; GREAT BRITAIN; HONG KONG (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES POLITICS (88%); GEOGRAPHY (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); CARTELS (69%); GOVERNORS (65%); CORRUPTION (63%); OPIUM (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: PATTEN, CHRISTOPHER F (GOV); SANGER, DAVID E ROBERT L MONTGOMERY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



619 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Red Star Over Hong Kong

 BODY:
Madeleine Albright's datebook nicely captures America's ambivalence about the return of Hong Kong to China at midnight tomorrow. The Secretary of State will attend the transfer ceremony, properly honoring China's historical claim to Hong Kong. She will skip the inaugural session of the new Hong Kong legislature, rightly snubbing an undemocratic body appointed by China's leaders.
There is good reason for Americans to be troubled by the transfer. A relatively free society is being handed over to a Communist dictatorship not quite a decade after the Berlin Wall fell. The inglorious history of Britain's claim to Hong Kong, established in 1842 after British forces overwhelmed China in the Opium War, justifies the transfer. A reasonable 1984 agreement between Britain and China compels it. The accord, known as the Joint Declaration, provides for a high degree of autonomy in Hong Kong until at least 2047, including the maintenance of political and economic freedom. 
 The question of the hour is whether China intends to keep that promise, once succinctly described by Deng Xiaoping, then the Chinese leader, as a commitment to "one country, two systems." The answer is not likely to come quickly or clearly. The relationship between China and Hong Kong is highly intricate, and not easily condensed into the videotape or headlines of a 24-hour news cycle.
Democracy supporters may be harassed by the authorities if they stage demonstrations in the days ahead, but that will not necessarily signal the immediate death of liberty in Hong Kong. Conversely, China's leaders may publicly reaffirm their pledge to live with a largely autonomous Hong Kong, but that will hardly guarantee the survival of an independent judiciary, professional civil service and free press.
In financial terms, Hong Kong has already been largely absorbed by China. Over the last decade the colony's bankers and businessmen invested heavily in China. and the economies of the two societies are now thoroughly interwoven. Self-interest suggests a fair degree of restraint is likely in both communities. But the preoccupation with profits among Hong Kong's civic leaders may also leave the city's political freedoms exposed to erosion. No one knows just how tight China's grip can get before it starts to choke off the entrepreneurial oxygen that has sustained strong growth.
Certainly, China's initial political moves in Hong Kong have been alarming. The new legislature is theoretically temporary, but China has left unclear whether it will eventually allow a freely elected body. Hong Kong's new chief executive, Tung Chee-hwa, also picked by Beijing, is a shipping magnate with a fondness for Singapore's authoritarian political system. China has warned that "subversive" dissent will not be tolerated, leaving itself wide latitude for repression. Last week's decision to garrison 4,000 Chinese troops in Hong Kong was a crude move to intimidate its citizens.
Beijing, by habit and ideology, is quite capable of squashing freedom in Hong Kong. But as China steps onto the world stage, it has an opportunity in Hong Kong to present a different face. Few nations get such a chance to define themselves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; CHINA; CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); OPIUM (54%); 

PERSON: MADELEINE ALBRIGHT (74%); DENG XIAOPING (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



620 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: Doubts From Senators on NATO Plan

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
Twenty Senators have written to President Clinton expressing reservations about the possible expansion of NATO. 
 The letter promised an "intense" debate in the Senate, which must approve the entry of new nations into the alliance by a two-thirds vote. Signed by the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, Jesse Helms, a North Carolina Republican, and several prominent Democrats, including Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and Patrick Leahy of Vermont, it asked what military threat the expansion is intended to counter, and whether NATO memberships for fledgling democracies in Central Europe "force them to spend money on arms, when expenditures for the infrastructure critical to economic growth are more pressing?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EAST EUROPE; EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: HELMS, JESSE (SEN); KERREY, BOB (SEN); LEAHY, PATRICK J (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



621 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Still Carries Britannia's Indelible Mark

SERIES: WAITING FOR CHINA

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 28

 BODY:
Over the last two centuries or so, Britain has ruled great chunks of the globe -- an empire, it was said, on which the sun never set.
Now, in a matter of hours, this easternmost shard of that empire will be relinquished, returned to China after 156 years of colonial suzerainty, leaving Britain with little more than a handful of islands, mostly in the Caribbean. Yet, the Hong Kong that returns to China is in many ways recognizable less as a place Chinese than a place indelibly touched by the ways of the West. 
 There are, to be sure, the obvious remainders of colonial rule -- coins with Queen Elizabeth's portrait still jingling in pockets, motorists hewing to the left side of the road, the local yacht club clinging stubbornly to its appellation "Royal," the tea and scones served on fine china at the Mandarin Hotel, and above all the use of English.
Yet, Britain has bequeathed Hong Kong more than visible trinkets of its reign.
Derek Davies, for decades the helmsman of Asia's pre-eminent news magazine, the Far Eastern Economic Review, assayed colonialism's central accomplishment in a speech he delivered not long ago titled, "Two Cheers for Colonialism."
"The British," he asserted, "were the Romans, the builders and administrators, no intellectual nonsense, although certainly they thought they were bringing civilization -- industry, modernity, the Christian religion."
"Harbors, roads, railways and imperial cities," were built, he continued, "in addition to less palpable but more important benefits such as the rule of law, the legal system, parliamentary democracy and a free press."
There are some here who are unimpressed by this heritage, preferring instead to see Hong Kong's entire colonial experience as an affront to Chinese history and civilization. Propounding this view most forcefully in the last year has been Zhou Nan, the senior Chinese official here, who invariably describes the return to Chinese sovereignty as the moment "when the yoke of colonialism" is shrugged off.
Indeed, Britain's resort to war from 1839 to 1842 to force the Chinese to buy opium from the firm of Jardine, Matheson and its wresting of the island of Hong Kong as booty from Beijing hardly presaged much in the way of morality or benevolence.
Official Chinese lamentations over British perfidy neatly overlook the venality and collaboration of a huge measure of Qing dynasty officialdom with the opium trade. Yet the fact remains that force of arms won Hong Kong for the British empire and cemented it, in 1898, with a 99-year lease on adjoining mainland territory.
In many ways, however, Hong Kong was different from other British colonial possessions, whether in the New World, Africa or the Indian subcontinent, virtually all of which are now long independent.
"I think Hong Kong is not a typical colonial situation," said Charles Aylmer, head of the University Library's Chinese Department at Pembroke College, Cambridge. "Rather paradoxically, I think the reason Hong Kong outlasted all the other colonies is because of the really strange situation with the lease."
"It is because everyone knew it was coming to an end that it lasted as long as it has," he said. "If it had been a simple occupied territory, there is no reason it would not have ended in 1949," the year Mao Zedong established the People's Republic of China.
The crude barbarity with which Hong Kong passed into British control was quickly supplanted by the rudiments of an administrative and legal system modeled on Britain's own. Democracy was not in the cards, though, for more than a century.
Still, Britain's last Governor, Christopher Patten, has been buoyantly defending the record of British stewardship. In his final appearance before Hong Kong's legislature, a fully elected body that China will dismiss on Tuesday, Mr. Patten summarized what he believes to be British colonialism's bequest to its last Asian territory.
"I think that Hong Kong is an astonishing Chinese success story," he told the 60-member legislature. "But I think it's a success story with British characteristics. I think that what Britain has helped provide as a result of the accidents of history is a framework within which people, particularly in the last 50 difficult years in this region, a framework within which Chinese men and women -- ordinary Chinese men and women -- have been able to do extraordinary things. I don't think any fair-minded observer would deny any role for British administrators or the rule of law in what has happened. But equally, any British observer, any of my predecessors as Governor, like this Governor, would stand back in awe at what Chinese men and women have managed to do here in Hong Kong given the chance, given the chance to be free in an economic and political sense."
More than any of his 27 predecessors, Mr. Patten in his five-year tenure moved Hong Kong toward a genuine measure of democratic governance and accountability. In 1995, for the first time, Hong Kong's Legislative Council was fully elected, directly and indirectly. Other local councils are all filled by elected members. It is one British legacy that will be nullified.
China will dismantle those institutions of governance on Tuesday. Indeed, the senior member of the new government's incoming Cabinet, Sir Sze-Yuen Chung, said this week that assemblies with appointed members marked "a step forward for democracy."
When the royal yacht Britannia, bearing Prince Charles and Mr. Patten, slips its mooring here on Tuesday, the Chinese flag will already be flying above them. But not all those who came here in the service of colonialism will follow.
Among those bits of empire that will remain are the likes of the stout and ruddy-faded Police Superintendent, Stephen Grinley Evans, who oversees a police team that watches the border for illegal immigrants passing into Hong Kong from China.
"I'm not ashamed to say I'm a bloody dinosaur," he said, laughing. "I came here from Scotland and I've been here since 1977. As long as they'll pay me, I'll stay."
And there is David T. Browning, a senior civil servant in the Customs and Excise Department who has seen the Union Jack lowered twice before on bits of empire.
"I joined the colonial service, partly for adventure and partly because I didn't really fancy staying in England," he said, hoisting a silver tankard of ale to his lips.
"I stayed on in Zambia after independence," he continued. "But I left the New Hebrides after it went independent." The New Hebrides are now Vanuatu. "A friend in London said 'Why don't you go to Hong Kong?' " he said. "Of course, I had in the back of my mind the impermanence of colonial regimes."
Now the last remaining British civil servant of 5,000 in his department, Mr. Browning said that Chinese rule would mean a rapid winnowing of the slightly more than 1,000 British citizens working in the Hong Kong Government.
"There are enough well-qualified, diligent, intelligent people here," Mr. Browning said. "The main thing is they have to maintain stability under the S.A.R." -- the Special Administrative Region, as Hong Kong will be known under Chinese rule. "I don't think it will be very many years before the expats leave," he continued. "Nobody's indispensable."
But for Governor Patten, his major regret, he insists, is not the disappearance of British civil servants -- for the civil service remains -- but the scuttling of democratic governance.
"I think there is a sadness," Mr. Patten said, "that this is the first time in recorded history that decolonization is followed by less democratization, not more."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prince Charles arrived in Hong Kong yesterday for the British colony's transfer to China. (John Giannini for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The firing of the Jardine's gun at Causeway Bay is a tradition noted in Noel Coward's "Mad Dogs and Englishmen" -- "In Hong Kong they strike a gong and fire off the noonday gun." (John Giannini for The New York Times)(pg. 14)
 
Chronology: "Two Centuries In Hong Kong"
 
Creating a British Colony
 
1839-42 Opium War: Chinese attempts to curb British opium imports from India push the British merchants from the Chinese mainland to Hong Kong island; fighting breaks out. In 1841, the British raise their flag on the territory.
 
1839 POPULATION: 7,500
 
1842 Treaty of Nanjing cedes Hong Kong to Britain in perpetuity and opens five Chinese ports to British trade.
 
1856-60 Renewed fighting between Britain and China culminates in occupation of Beijing and destruction of the Summer Palace.
 
1860 POPULATION: 94,000
 
1860 Convention of Beijing adds part of the Kowloon peninsula to the colony of Hong Kong, grants foreigners travel rights throughout China, expands treaty ports and legalizes the opium trade.
 
1880 POPULATION: 160,000
 
1892 Sun Yat-sen, later known as the father of the Chinese Republic, graduates from Hong Kong College of Medicine.
 
1898 New Territories, encompassing most of what is now the mainland portion of Hong Kong, and 235 nearby islands are leased by China to Britain for 99 years.
 
1900 POPULATION: 263,000
 
Revolution and War
 
1905 Sun Yat-sen's movement to bring down the Qing Dynasty sets up an office in Hong Kong, which becomes a center for revolutionary activity against the imperial Government.
 
1911 The Qing Dynasty collapses. Sun Yat-sen is sworn in as President of the Republic of China in 1912.
 
1920 POPULATION: 600,000
 
1920 Chinese Communist Party is founded.
 
1925 Sun Yat-sen dies.
 
1928 Chiang Kai-shek becomes President of the Chinese Republic.
 
1931 Japan occupies Chinese province of Manchuria.
 
1937 Full-fledged war begins between China and Japan.
 
1940 POPULATION: 1.6 MILLION
 
1941 Japanese troops seize Hong Kong.
 
1945 Japan surrenders; Britain re-establishes control of the colony.
 
Rise of Communist China
 
1949 Chiang Kai-shek's forces, defeated by Communists, flee to Taiwan. Mao Zedong proclaims the People's Republic of China.
 
1951 After Chinese troops enter the Korean conflict, the United States and the United Nations declare a trade embargo on China. Hong Kong's economy begins shift to manufacturing and finance.
 
1960 POPULATION: 3 MILLION
 
1959-62 Great Leap Forward in China to transform the economy leads to famine; thousands of refugees flee to Hong Kong.
 
1967 Political chaos of the Cultural Revolution in China spills over into Hong Kong, where Communist sympathizers riot.
 
The Road Back
 
1972 China, admitted to the United Nations the year before, signals its interest in re-establishing sovereignty over Hong Kong.
 
1976 Mao dies.
 
1978 Deng Xiaoping comes to power, moving China toward economic reform and greater openness to the outside world.
 
1980 POPULATION: 5.2 MILLION
 
1982 China opens its first Special Economic Zone in Shenzhen, adjacent to Hong Kong. Britain initiates talks on the colony's future.
 
1984 Britain and China agree that all of Hong Kong will revert to Chinese rule. Under the slogan of one country, two systems, China pledges that Hong Kong will remain largely unchanged for 50 years.
 
1989 In Beijing, troops crush democracy demonstrations at Tiananmen Square, raising anxiety in Hong Kong over its fate under Chinese rule.
 
1996 POPULATION: 6.3 MILLION
 
1997 British colonial rule ends at midnight June 30. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology; Series

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); TAIWAN (93%); JAPAN (93%); INDIA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); ENGLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (50%); NEW WORLD WINES (50%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (50%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; GREAT BRITAIN; CHINA; CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); TAIWAN (93%); JAPAN (93%); INDIA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); ENGLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA CHRONOLOGIES (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (66%); POLITICS (64%); OPIUM (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (54%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PRINCE CHARLES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



622 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: Arms Makers See Bonanza In Selling NATO Expansion

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH and TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
At night, Bruce L. Jackson is president of the U.S. Committee to Expand NATO, giving intimate dinners for Senators and foreign officials. By day, he is director of strategic planning for Lockheed Martin Corporation, the world's biggest weapons maker.
Mr. Jackson says he keeps his two identities separate, but his company and his lobbying group are fighting the same battle. Defense contractors are acting like globe-hopping diplomats to encourage the expansion of NATO, which will create a huge market for their wares. 
 Billions of dollars are at stake in the next global arms bazaar: weapons sales to Central European nations invited to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Admission to the Western fraternity will bring political prestige, but at a price: playing by NATO rules, which require Western weapons and equipment.
"The stakes are high" for arms makers, said Joel L. Johnson, vice president for international affairs at the Aerospace Industries Association, a trade group. "Whoever gets in first will have a lock for the next quarter-century."
The potential market for fighter jets alone is $10 billion, he said. Those jets will require flight simulators, spare parts, electronics and engine improvements. "Then there's transport aircraft, utility helicopters, attack helicopters," Mr. Johnson said -- not to mention military communications systems, computers, radar, radios and the other tools of a modern fighting force.
"Add them together, and we're talking real money," he said."
The first signs of a military spending spree in Central Europe have led the managing director of the International Monetary Fund to raise the issue with the Secretary of the Treasury. While the State Department says it is urging restraint on the potential NATO nations, the Pentagon is enticing them to buy American warplanes.
NATO leaders are to meet in Madrid July 8-9 to vote on expanding the alliance. The Clinton Administration says Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic should be admitted now.
Some NATO members say Romania and Slovenia should join now, too. But the Clinton Administration says Romania's democracy and Slovenia's military do not yet meet the alliance's standards.
After Madrid, the issue moves to the United States Senate, which must approve new member states by a two-thirds vote.
"To make sure the Senate knew this was an important aspect of U.S. security," Mr. Jackson said, his U.S. Committee to Expand NATO recently gave a dinner for a dozen Senators at the private Metropolitan Club, two blocks from the White House.
Over lamb chops and red wine, the Senators heard Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright explain NATO expansion. The guest list included Bernard L. Schwartz, chairman of Loral Space and Communications, a company partly owned by Lockheed Martin. Mr. Schwartz personally donated $601,000 to Democratic politicians for the 1996 election. Lockheed Martin itself gave $2.3 million to Congressional and Presidential candidates in the 1996 election, part of a five-fold increase in defense companies' donations to Democrats from 1992 to 1996.
Lockheed Martin wants its F-16 fighters to replace the old Soviet-made MIG-21's in the hangars of Central Europe. Norman R. Augustine, Lockheed Martin's chief executive, toured Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania and Slovenia in April, drumming up business and supporting the largest possible expansion of NATO. In Bucharest, following through on an $82 million radar contract, he supported Romania's entry.
"Norm has an emotional commitment to NATO expansion," Mr. Jackson said.
In May, Bell Helicopter Textron's chairman, Webb Joiner, also promoted Romania's bid as he sealed a $1 billion deal to sell the Romanians marine attack helicopters. In Washington, the company's lobbyist, Dick Smith, said that Bell Helicopter Textron was fighting for Romania's inclusion by "doing everything we can to tell their story to our friends here."
Mircea Geoana, Romanian Ambassador to the United States, said, "The most interested corporations are the defense corporations, because they have a direct interest in the issue."
NATO was founded in 1949, at the dawn of the cold war, to enlarge the United States' power in Western Europe and contain the Soviet Union and its satellites in Central Europe. The end of the Soviet empire created the chance to expand the alliance.
"NATO enlargement is in our national interests," President Clinton said this month at West Point's commencement. "But because it is not without cost and risk, it is appropriate to have an open, full, national discussion before proceeding."
The Administration says the cost of a few nations' joining NATO may reach $35 billion over 10 years, with the United States paying about $2 billion. But the Congressional Budget Office says the cost may reach $125 billion over 15 years, with the United States paying up to $19 billion.
Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott said in an interview that Central European nations would actually spend less on arms once admitted to NATO than if left out, thanks to the collective security offered by the alliance.
"Feeling more secure, they will feel less incentive to build up their armaments to deal with real or perceived insecurities," he said.
But Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland all project rising military budgets in coming years, though that spending is still a small portion of their economies, according to a Senate Foreign Relations Committee report by Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., a Delaware Democrat who supports NATO expansion.
Hungary expects that joining the alliance will increase its military spending by about 35 percent. Poland projects a 20 percent rise, though a United States Information Agency survey in Poland found that three-quarters of the people favored spending more money on health and education, not weapons.
Critics of NATO expansion say weapons spending could create political and economic problems in Central Europe.
"It's extraordinarily unwise for these countries to shoulder these costs when they must pay the costs of meeting their social needs," said Jack Matlock, a former United States Ambassador to Moscow.
"These countries are free to buy American arms," he said. "The question is how they pay for it. If the American taxpayer finances them, this would be a direct subsidy to the arms industry. If they pay for them themselves, it could lead to real distortions in these countries' own budgets."
The prospect of soaring arms spending by potential NATO nations, particularly Romania, also worries the International Monetary Fund, whose billions of dollars of loans in the region are conditioned on fiscal restraint, according to the fund's officials.
This month, the fund's managing director, Michel Camdessus, raised the issue of military spending in Central Europe with Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, according to a senior Treasury official.
At the same time, the fund's staff, in its annual review of the United States economy, reminded the Clinton Administration of its past promises to help prevent "excessive military spending" in emerging economies, including Central European nations. The fund's staff urged the United States to handle arms sales "in a way that avoids encouraging unproductive expenditures and heightening security tensions."
A senior Treasury official said the United States shared those concerns and had "urged NATO candidate countries to be cautious about buying big-ticket items."
Still, to entice those same nations to buy American weapons, the Pentagon has laid out a smorgasbord of grants, discount loans and free leases.
The Air Force and the Navy have offered Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland five-year leases of F-16 and F-18 fighter jets, free of charge. That offer came after the three nations asked the Pentagon about the individual prices and availability of more than $8 billion in jets, according to documents obtained by Arms Trade News.
Eight billion dollars exceeds the three nations' combined annual defense budgets.
Last month, Romania became the first country to tap into a $15 billion defense export loan guarantee fund, created by Congress in 1995 at the urging of executives like Mr. Augustine. The Romanians want the money to buy $23 million in unmanned reconnaissance planes. And this year, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland received $30 million from a $60 million Pentagon grant program.
Beyond Congress, the White House and the Pentagon, NATO expansion is a hot issue in the growing subculture of nonprofit organizations, where interest groups form associations with civic-sounding names to advance their causes.
Mr. Jackson set up his U.S. Committee to Expand NATO committee last November. The committee's board of directors includes educators, business executives and lawyers. Its members donate their time; it accepts no corporate donations. One of its founders, Greg Craig, recently became the State Department's director of policy planning.
Now the Romanians, hoping to win NATO membership in the next round of candidates, are helping to set up two nonprofit foundations in Washington to advance their cause, said Ambassador Geoana. Financial support for at least one of the foundations will come from Bell Helicopter, Lockheed Martin and other arms makers, the Ambassador and company officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (95%); LORL (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (56%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ROMANIA (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); HUNGARY (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; STATE DEPARTMENT; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (95%); LORAL CORP (56%); LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; STATE DEPARTMENT; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EAST EUROPE; EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ROMANIA (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); HUNGARY (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); MADRID, SPAIN (50%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT ; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES ARMS TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); HELICOPTERS (73%); TRENDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); FLIGHT SIMULATORS (68%); AIRLINES (66%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (58%); 

PERSON: GERTH, JEFF; WEINER, TIM MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



623 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Albright Lays Cornerstone for Diplomacy With Vietnam

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam, June 28

 BODY:
In an emotional ceremony in the courtyard of the last United States Embassy in South Vietnam, abandoned in April 1975 when the last helicopter took Ambassador Graham Martin from its roof, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright today laid the first stone for a new American Consulate.
"This will become the symbol and substance of America's first diplomatic presence here in a quarter-century," she said, delicately avoiding direct mention of the war that killed some 58,000 American soldiers and about 3 million Vietnamese soldiers and civilians. 
 She is the first American Secretary of State to come here since the war, which ended when the Communists captured this city, then called Saigon, as the American Ambassador fled. The new consulate, she said, symbolizes "two peoples on a shared journey from tragic conflict to mutual respect."
But for all her efforts to concentrate on the future of American-Vietnamese relations -- meeting American businessmen and charitable organizations that help the Vietnamese -- the war shadowed her visit.
While emphasizing the need for more economic and political reform in Vietnam and talking up American investment, she was always careful to say that "America's highest national priority" remains an accounting for its 1,584 missing in action -- of whom only 48 cases, of men last seen alive, are still being intensively investigated.
While the United States is spending about $3 million a year to aid the Vietnamese, it is spending at least $10 million a year trying to resolve the fate of the last of the missing Americans. Asked whether that proportion was just, Ms. Albright said carefully, "I think one cannot discount the emotional importance of the P.O.W.--M.I.A. issue for the American people."
The need to reach the fullest possible accounting is important, she said, "so the past can be put behind us." It is always difficult to assess where money is well spent, she said, and America needs to spend more overseas anyway -- "but the truth of the matter is that this is a deeply emotional issue for the American people." It is also a deeply political issue for Washington, even as the war itself fades as an active memory for most Americans.
Political opposition held up Ambassador Pete Peterson's confirmation to come here, despite his service as a Navy pilot and his incarceration for more than six years as a prisoner of war in what was called the "Hanoi Hilton."
And political opposition -- "maybe best described as ambivalence," a senior American official said -- nearly held up the Ho Chi Minh City consulate itself. Ms. Albright and Mr. Peterson wanted to lay the foundation stone during her visit here, but bureaucratically, it was necessary to shift State Department funds for that purpose.
Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire and chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee that controls State Department spending, had blocked the shifting of the funds, reflecting the conservative Republican concern that the Vietnamese are not doing enough to help the United States account for its missing Americans .
But Mr. Peterson, a former Representative from Florida, reached Mr. Gregg on the telephone at a fishing camp, American officials said, and demanded, "What are you doing holding us up?" Ms. Albright also lobbied him, and Mr. Gregg relented 10 days ago, allowing today's ceremony to proceed.
"What has really moved me so deeply here," Ms. Albright said later, visiting a project that provides free prosthetic limbs and simple wheelchairs to Vietnamese crippled by land mines or polio, "is that it's so very hard to get away from the past."
"We all, whether American or Vietnamese, are never going to be fully able to put the past behind us," she said. "But I've been deeply moved by the desire of people to look toward the future."
"Symbolically there," she continued, "in the shadow of the embassy we gave so much for, to lay a bric for an American Consulate in Ho Chi Minh City -- where Americans are very welcome," she said, breaking off. "This morning was very symbolic of having the shadow of the past but being prepared to lay a foundation for the future."
The Vietnamese, who have publicly welcomed a stabilizing American role in Asia, seem very happy that the Americans are back. Watching Ms. Albright at the clinic help lift a young Vietnamese girl with polio into her new wheelchair, a Vietnamese Foreign Ministry official said, "We have so many needy here. We're very glad the Americans are back, this time to help."
Mr. Peterson, asked to comment, said softly, "There's incredible psychological and physical pain on both sides. So both peoples must look to the past for lessons, but then carry them on to the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Madeleine K. Albright, the first Secretary of State to visit Ho Chi Minh City since the war, laid the first stone for a new American consulate. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (94%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S FIRST CREDIT UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; HO CHI MINH CITY (VIETNAM); UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (94%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; VIETNAM WAR; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MISSING IN ACTION EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HELICOPTERS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); POLITICS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); TRENDS (71%); CHARITIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) JUDD GREGG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



624 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Auto Makers Lobby to Stop New Air Quality Regulations

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 27

 BODY:
After five years of worrying that the Clinton Administration might tighten air quality regulations, the auto industry's fears have finally come true.
President Clinton approved more stringent metropolitan air quality standards on Wednesday. A day later, in a more serious blow to the auto industry, the President declared that at an international conference next December in Kyoto, Japan, the United States would favor the adoption of binding limits on so-called greenhouse gases, which may contribute to global warming. 
 Auto industry officials had been fretting about both issues for months, and they have already begun lobbying Congress to block both Administration initiatives. International carbon dioxide limits are an unnecessarily drastic response to a global warming threat that has not yet been proved to exist, said Andrew H. Card Jr., president of the American Automobile Manufacturers Association, a Washington trade group representing Detroit's Big Three.
The metropolitan air quality rules, he said, "are ill-conceived, economically disadvantageous to the country and will put a particular burden on the auto industry and the people of Michigan."
Controls on the emissions of carbon dioxide, one of the greenhouse gases, represent a potentially dire threat to auto makers. Carbon dioxide is produced in large quantities when gasoline is burned in an internal combustion engine. Reducing carbon dioxide emissions means improving fuel economy or reducing the number of cars on the road.
Detroit auto makers in particular are already struggling to meet existing fuel economy standards as they sell ever more Jeeps and other gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles. Tighter standards could severely crimp profits.
Auto industry executives have been downright caustic in recent speeches about the possibility of carbon dioxide limits. "This sort of fuzzy thinking provides the warm illusion of saving the sky, which we're not even sure needs saving, but it won't have any impact at all on global warming," said Robert J. Eaton, the chairman and chief executive of the Chrysler Corporation. "It will just move jobs to those countries which are allowed to spew whatever they want into the air."
President Clinton chose on Thursday not to impose immediate carbon dioxide limits, but auto executives had never expected that he would do so and were not impressed. The main goal of industry lobbying has been to make sure that any carbon dioxide limits negotiated in Kyoto were voluntary, not binding. Detroit executives are convinced that only the United States would actually obey binding limits while other countries would flout them.
Auto makers have tried to market vehicles that can burn natural gas or alcohol or run on electric power from batteries. But demand has been remarkably weak, with Federal, state and local agencies often ignoring laws designed to force them to buy alternative-fuel vehicles.
Ford, the main producer of such vehicles, announced on Friday that it would broaden its lineup to 11 models this autumn, including several that burn ethanol, a type of alcohol. Yet Ford had combined sales of just 8,461 alternative-fuel vehicles across five model lines last year.
Behind the dismay in Detroit about the latest Administration moves lies a very real worry at General Motors, Ford and Chrysler that they will be put at a competitive disadvantage, against their foreign-company rivals. Ford and particularly Chrysler already produce more sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and pickup trucks than cars. But cars tend to be much more fuel-efficient and therefore produce less carbon dioxide.
G.M. will be producing more so-called light trucks than cars within several years, while most foreign auto makers overwhelmingly make cars and will continue doing so.
The metropolitan air quality standards could also hurt Detroit's Big Three. While the Big Three still have many of their factories in big Midwestern cities with pollution problems, Japanese and European auto makers have chosen to build their newer assembly plants in small Southern towns. Though these choices of factory sites were mainly aimed at forestalling unionization, the sites also tend to have clean air that is likely to meet the more stringent standards without any extra spending by the foreign auto makers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); KINKI, JAPAN (72%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); KINKI, JAPAN (72%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; WEATHER; CARBON DIOXIDE; AIR POLLUTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION AIR QUALITY REGULATION (94%); AIR QUALITY (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); BIOFUELS (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (66%); ETHANOL (66%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (65%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



625 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 8; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: ON PRO FOOTBALL;
It's True: Even the Bills Could Move

BYLINE: By Thomas George 

 BODY:
Finally, a breakthrough, Ralph Wilson thought. Maybe his Buffalo Bills were a step closer to competing in the National Football League's stadium game -- in which the money generated by new or improved stadiums is used to pay soaring player salaries -- and a step farther away from leaving Buffalo.
Last November, Wilson presented officials of Erie County and New York State with a proposal for renovations to Rich Stadium that called for $60 million in public money. The increased revenue from parking, concessions and new suites and club seats would put Wilson in position, he said, to combat a steady decline in season-ticket sales. He would have the cash for big signing bonuses, necessary in today's N.F.L. for luring big-name free agents and retaining one's own instrumental players. 
 "We didn't hear anything from them until April," Wilson said. "We had three or four meetings after that, but we didn't get anywhere. That's why I was excited when Governor Pataki called last week."
George E. Pataki, New York's Governor, asked for a meeting last Wednesday in Albany between his top aides and Wilson's. Finally, Wilson thought.
There was one problem, though. When the sides sat down, the Bills were stunned to learn that Pataki's group had never seen Wilson's original proposal. Six hours of meetings produced little.
Back to square one.
The 79-year-old Wilson, who has owned the Bills for the last 37 years, is shaken.
"Our proposal is so good, when you look around the country at all the other teams and their stadium deals, that I was very confident," Wilson said. "Now, I'm beginning to weaken a little. I'm tired of all of the haggling. I don't think teams should move if they can make it financially. But if you can't compete financially, you ought to be allowed to move. You can't go bankrupt.
"I have not talked with other cities about moving the Bills. But as this drifts along, you know that is going to happen. This is not a matter of loyalty. I'm loyal to Buffalo and I've spent half of my life in Buffalo. This is not a matter of lining my pockets. It's a matter of simple economics and common sense."
It is a matter in which Buffalo could go the way of Cleveland and Houston and Los Angeles.
The Bills are part of the fabric of Buffalo. Bills fans embrace their team with a fervor that matches that of any city toward its pro sports teams.
But the Bills' 25-year lease at Rich Stadium, which is owned by Erie County, ends in July 1998. That means the Bills are under contract to play in Buffalo for only one more N.F.L. season.
Then what?
Pataki and Wilson are scheduled to meet July 12 in Albany. But for Wilson, the urgency is gone.
"We wanted this thing solved so stadium construction would be completed by the 1998 season," Wilson said. "Now, we've lost the construction timetable. Now, there is no rush."
Buffalo's lawmakers and taxpayers have to ask themselves whether the Bills are worth keeping for $60 million, especially given the harsh economic realities of western New York. Is this just another example of corporate welfare in sports?
Pataki has said that the state has to be "reasonable and prudent," but that it will do what it can to keep the Bills. Dennis Gorski, the Erie County Executive, has said through spokesmen that the county will work "as hard as we can to keep Mr. Wilson financially competitive."
The county wants a new lease of at least 15 years. Wilson wants one for five years, with options to increase the number of years based on revenue. The county owns the stadium. That is not unusual. And what Wilson is asking is not unusual.
When the Rams moved from Anaheim, Calif., to St. Louis, they got a $280 million stadium. When Art Modell took his Browns from Cleveland to Baltimore and made them Ravens, he received $75 million in moving expenses alone. When Al Davis took his Raiders from Los Angeles to Oakland, he gained at least $54 million in cash benefits.
So $60 million might appear to be a bargain. Or it might not, especially for a depressed region like western New York.
"I've already put millions over the years into improving a stadium that I don't even own," Wilson said. "I see cranes and buildings popping up in Denver, Seattle, Dallas, many places other than Buffalo. I understand the economic hardships and that is why, even though we've had playoff teams the last five years, that we have had slumping season-ticket sales. Trying to turn it around is like trying to turn around a battleship. You can do that with a destroyer. But with a battleship, it takes time."
The Oilers, the Ravens, the Redskins, the 49ers, the Seahawks, the Lions and the Buccaneers are among the N.F.L. teams that will move into sparkling new stadiums over the next few seasons, complete with a big increase in new revenues for their owners.
Wilson's other primary businesses are two television stations and a road-building company. He said that in recent seasons, in order to pay $16 million in player bonuses, he had to borrow from his other businesses. No more, he said.
So the answers for Wilson and Buffalo, though painful, are simple. For Wilson, it is giving in and creating an environment for a longer lease. For Buffalo, it is coming up with the cash or watching its team go. It is a matter of risk and reward. Is the reward worth the risk? If it is not for Buffalo, it will be for some other aspiring N.F.L. city.
And then you could add the Bills to the list of N.F.L. franchises you never imagined would bolt -- until poof! they were gone.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thurman Thomas running against Dallas at Rih Stadium last season. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BUFFALO BILLS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (58%); BUFFALO BILLS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS BUFFALO BILLS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SPORTS FANS (73%); TICKET SALES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE, THOMAS; WILSON, RALPH

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



626 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: After Tax Bills, Congress Faces The Long Haul

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
The Republican celebrations over tax bills were not finished before the Clinton Administration and Republican leaders began talking confidently about how to work out final legislation to balance the budget in 2002. But that route is easy compared with the effort required to keep the budget balanced and avoid abysmal deficits when baby boomers retire a decade later.
By the time the Senate finished passing its tax bill on Friday, work was under way on the formidable short-term issues of Medicare and capital gains. And officials at the White House and on Capitol Hill were already pondering how to deal with the long-range challenge. 
 The task of turning the two House bills, one on spending and the other on taxes, and the comparable Senate versions into compromises that the President would sign began on Thursday evening. Representative Bill Archer of Texas, who managed the House bill for the first important tax reductions since 1981, talked to Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and the White House chief of staff, Erskine B. Bowles, within minutes of Thursday's House vote.
The Administration likes Mr. Archer's version less than the Senate bill because it gives less to low-income taxpayers and is more generous on capital gains. But Mr. Archer said after the meeting: "We want tax relief for the American people, and this President wants to be able to sign tax relief for the American people. The pressure on both sides is to find a way to come together."
In some ways, the week's votes were easy. Cutting $135 billion in taxes for more than 50 million Americans is something politicians find agreeable. And unlike many past budget bills, this one has spending increases in the short run.
But the sort of discretionary spending caps that have worked since 1990 are here, too. Most important, just about all Republicans and most Democrats cast votes for Medicare savings that expose them -- fairly or demagogically -- to the risk of television spots accusing them of callousness toward the elderly. After the advertisements of 1996, that took political nerve.
But even though the process so far has a notable credibility among experienced budgeteers who have watched past plans fail, they are not convinced that Congress has the courage to face the long-term problems. Bob Greenstein, executive director of the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, spoke of them as "the demographic tsunami of the baby boomers retiring and the mushrooming of the tax cuts at about the same time around 2011. Even if you have balanced the budget before then, deficits return and return with a vengeance," worse than in the mid-1980's.
At the White House, Gene Sperling, head of the National Economic Council, said that Washington's conventional wisdom held that only in a crisis can there be bipartisanship on long-term issues like Medicare and Social Security. But now, he said, "The political challenge for the President and others is how to get the country to address a long-term problem not because it is a crisis at the doorstep but because acting now is an opportunity to deal with something in a more sensible, more long-term and less disruptive way."
One central figure, Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, argued that the tough votes cast in the Senate to raise the Medicare age limit and charge higher premiums to the high-income elderly were a hopeful sign. Relaxing after what he called the "best week of my legislative career," Mr. Domenici, the Budget Committee chairman, said there was no doubt that Medicare would be harder to solve than Social Security. "We just have to face up to it or there will be an enormous problem."
The same sense of political imperative leads both Mr. Archer and Mr. Domenici to expect that the budget will not just be momentarily balanced in 2002 and then, exhausted, return to deficit status.
Mr. Archer acknowledged that "neither the Congress nor the President has repealed the business cycle." But he said he thought balanced budgets "will be the norm from now on," that no Congress would be willing to be the first to let deficits return. Mr. Domenici said: "I think we will grow accustomed in reasonably good times to being in balance. The tax base has grown enough so we can do that."
Several economists are more skeptical about the long run, although they share a striking willingness to consider three things possible in the near term. First and easiest, that Congress and the President will agree on the legislation. Second, that Congress will vote for the discretionary spending cuts it has promised to figure out. Third and hardest, that barring a serious recession, in 2002 the Federal Government will actually spend no more than it takes in.
Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, a research organization, said the plan could work "if the economy cooperates, but only if the economy cooperates."
Martha Phillips, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan lobby for balancing the budget, said that she doubted the goal would be achieved, but that the robust economy could make it happen. "If it keeps up," she said, "we might accidentally balance the budget."
Mr. Greenstein, a critic who says the legislation shortchanges the poor, even concedes, "It's certainly possible, if the economy stays strong, the budget would stay balanced for a while."
But he said, from "2008 to 2017 tax cuts rise to those terrific levels." Ms. Phillips shared his concern, saying she feared that whatever was accomplished in the first years might be "swamped by the tax pieces in the out years."
She was encouraged by the Senate moves on Medicare, but noted that the "graying of America" would be marked in 2008, when the first postwar children begin to take early Social Security benefits at 62. "We have to get on with dealing with the generational issues," she said.
Ms. Sawhill was skeptical about the political ease of increased spending in the first years, spending that goes to education and children's health. Whatever the merits of particular proposals, she said, this style of budget balancing is like "a diet that begins with dessert." And even if a buoyant economy gets the budget through its 5-year path to balance, "we should be worrying about the following 10 to 15."
She conceded that the Medicare cuts amounted to "a little progress on tackling some of the difficult political issues." But she found them inconsistent with "putting in place, particularly on the tax side, a set of commitments that are eventually going to come out of somebody's side."
At least some rank-and-file Republicans have an opposite set of concerns. They are arguing about what to do with the budget surplus they expect to see.
Representative Mark W. Neumann of Wisconsin is writing legislation to deal with a budget surplus. Under his bill, which assumes 6 percent annual growth in Federal revenues, the current $5.3 trillion national debt would be paid off by 2026, using two-thirds of the surplus he foresees while the other third would go to tax cuts -- an additional $112 billion by 2002. He said on Friday he already had 90 co-sponsors, including Representatives John R. Kasich of Ohio, chairman of the Budget Committee, and Robert L. Livingston of Louisiana, chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
Ms. Phillips was scornful. "You can't divvy up the surplus," she said, "until you have it in hand."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Archer, the House Ways and Means Committee chairman. (The New York Times); Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin is working on a budget deal. (Associated Press)(pg. 19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (61%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOMENICI, PETE V (SEN); ARCHER, BILL (REPR) ERSKINE BOWLES (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



627 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 2011 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Pampered Pitchers: A Debate Is Stirring

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Baseball's universal complaint is lack of pitching. So here is one way to alleviate the shortage: use fewer starting pitchers and return to the four-man rotation of yesteryear in place of the modern version of five.
"I think teams would love that," Lou Piniella, the Seattle Mariners' manager, said of the idea. "I think pitchers' agents would hate it. When you can win 20 games and make $6 million pitching every five days, why do you have to pitch every four and maybe cut a year or two off your career?" 
 Piniella, an old-timer at heart, was just getting started.
"It's gotten even more absurd," he said. "They've put these kids on pitch counts of 100 pitches pitching every five days. How do you develop good mechanics and good location and how do you learn to pitch yourself out of trouble and get your second wind throwing 100 pitches?"
Teams are playing with a double-edged sword, Piniella continued.
"They're so concerned about the lack of pitching," he said, "that they pamper these kids and they overprotect them and they don't learn how to pitch. It's the darndest thing. They're more protected than the manatees are in Florida."
Pampered and overprotected. First came the five-man rotation, then the pitch count. Pampered and overprotected. That says as much about the state of pitching today as ball one, ball two, ball three, ball four.
Since the 1960's, when baseball's first expansion prompted a change in pitching philosophy, starting pitchers working their way up from the minor leagues to the majors have been conditioned physically and mentally to believe they can't pitch more often than every fifth day. More recently, they have additionally been programmed to go only so far -- 100 pitches in many cases -- in the games they start every fifth day.
The product that has emerged from this dual practice is not one readily recognized by their predecessors.
"I've talked to some of the old-timers that threw hard and pitched for a long time," Piniella said. "My goodness, they threw 140, 150 pitches every fourth day."
Retired now for four years, Nolan Ryan probably qualifies as one of those old-timers, if not by age, then by state of mind. "I played so long people started looking at me and asking what is wrong with that grumpy old man," Ryan said recently, discussing his views on pitching and other parts of the game.
Ryan, who is 50, spanned a few pitching generations, beginning his major league career in 1966, the year that was Sandy Koufax's last, through 1993, the year in which Greg Maddux won the second of his four successive Cy Young awards.
Aside from his record seven no-hitters and 5,714 strikeouts, Ryan was noted for his durability. He pitched more than 200 innings in 14 different seasons and in two of those years exceeded 300. In still another season, he fell one inning short of 300. In pitching those innings, however, he was not unique, as he was with his no-hitters and strikeouts.
Among his contemporaries, for example, Gaylord Perry exceeded 200 innings 17 times in a 22-year career, working more than 300 innings six times in a seven-season span. The hardly svelte Mickey Lolich went 12 successive seasons pitching more than 200 innings, topping 300 in four straight seasons with a remarkable career high of 376 in 1971. Steve Carlton worked more than 200 innings for 13 consecutive seasons and 16 of 17, twice exceeded 300 and three other times went beyond 290.
But no pitcher has reached the 300-inning plateau since Carlton pitched 304 innings in 1980. In the 1990's, the most any pitcher has compiled in one season is Roger Clemens's 271 1/3 innings in 1991. Meanwhile, only 10 active pitchers have worked more than 200 innings in as many as five consecutive seasons during their career. And Maddux, who has registered nine consecutive 200-inning seasons, was the only one of the 10 who carried that kind of workload last year.
Barring a reversal of the trend that has rendered workhorse pitchers obsolete, baseball has less chance of seeing a 300-inning pitcher again than it does a .400 hitter. No one seems to be prepared to return to the days of the four-man rotation and the complete-game pitcher.
"When I came up, pitchers threw every fourth day," Ryan said. "Tom Seaver was the first guy I came in contact with that was adamant about pitching every fifth day."
That timetable was not for Ryan.
"I wanted the ball every fourth day," he said. "I can't ever remember going out, when I was accumulating all those innings, thinking I wish I had a couple more days. In those days you wanted the baseball."
 
'I Didn't Want Anybody Else in My Game'
 Ryan recalled another first. When he was a teammate of Don Sutton with the Houston Astros in 1981, he said, Sutton was the first pitcher who said: "My goal is to get them to the seventh inning and then let the bullpen take over. I've done my job."
"I never had that mindset," Ryan said. "It never crossed my mind. I didn't want anybody else in my game."
Today, starting pitchers generally are only the first of several, if not many, pitchers a manager uses in a game. With few exceptions, pitchers are not expected to last nine innings. Many are not even permitted to exceed a designated-pitch limit, 100 being the number that has become more magic than the one that clinches first place.
"How did someone come up with that?" Ryan asked. "There's no science behind that. I threw 242 pitches in a game, then came back four days later. I didn't do too well, but I didn't hurt myself."
Ryan and others believe pitchers have become spoiled.
"If they get to 100 pitches, they say, 'That's it for me,' " Ryan said. "They've done their job. It's out of their hands. It's a mindset."
By pitching less often and fewer innings, pitchers are being cheated of arm strength, control of the strike zone and pitching knowledge, critics of the current system believe.
A pitch limit, David Cone of the Yankees said, "doesn't allow young pitchers to work on getting through tough innings."
In his experience, Cone added, he has often found that he pitches with greater ease and rhythm later in the game than early.
"To me," he said, "pitch 100 to 120 is a lot less taxing than 1 to 20."
Tom Glavine, who was the first cog in the Atlanta Braves' intimidating rotation, said he has no doubt that pitch limits have had a direct effect on the development of pitchers.
"Whatever the reason, pitchers are getting pampered," he said. "When you keep cutting guys off, you don't give them an opportunity to learn how to pitch late in the game or how to pitch when they're a little tired. That makes a big difference."
Furthermore, Glavine said, "Every time you go out with a pitch count, I don't care what a pitcher tells you, you know in the back of your mind 'I'm only throwing X number of pitches' and you end up thinking more about that than you think about just going out and pitching."
 
Economic Crisis Arises on the Mound
 Why do managers and pitching coaches treat pitchers so delicately these days?
"Because of the investment involved now," said Leo Mazzone, the Braves' pitching coach, who does not pamper his pitchers. "A lot of people cover their rear ends by not allowing pitchers to throw."
Ray Miller, another noted pitching coach now working for Baltimore, agreed that the matter has become an economic concern.
"The Pirates just signed Kris Benson for $2 million, said Miller, whose previous job was with Pittsburgh. "You want to take him to A ball and start throwing him every four days. But he's a big power guy and everybody's going to say: 'My god, if he gets hurt, it's my job. We better stay with five. Count his pitches. Make sure he doesn't get hurt.' "
A team's medical staff is influenced by economics as well, Miller said.
"In my first 10 years in the big leagues," he said, "if a pitcher had something bothering him. the trainer said go to the doctor's office tomorrow morning. The guy said it's not that bad and he pitched through it. Now you have an orthopedist in the clubhouse every day. This pitcher is making $3 million a year. If he says he's a little tender, the doctor is going to say I think you should rest him. He's not going to say pitch through it and have the guy go out and get hurt."
Phil Garner, the Milwaukee Brewers' manager, offered his own recent experience with Cal Eldred as proof of the prevailing mindset. Eldred, the American League's top rookie pitcher in 1992, averaged slightly more than seven innings a start in his first two and a half years in the major leagues. Then, in 1995, he developed an elbow problem, had ligament surgery on his right elbow and missed more than a season.
"I think everyone is scared to death of pitching a kid too much," Garner said. "We lost Cal Eldred, and part of the consideration is I threw him too many pitches. I'm not going to let that happen again. Whether that's right or wrong, and I've done research with several different doctors to try to determine if it was too many pitches, I don't want that to happen to a Jeff D'Amico or to Cal again."
But in exercising such caution, some baseball people believe, teams are risking the very thing they're trying to avoid.
"You end up trying to do so much to avoid arm injury," Mazzone said, "that you raise the risk of arm injury because the less you throw -- and when you do throw, you throw hard -- raises the risk."
Glavine readily agreed with his coach. "Everybody errs on the side of caution and that means keep throwing to a minimum," Glavine said. "The only problem is I don't think that's doing them any good. It's probably hurting them more."
 
Cy Young Winners, Despite Little Rest
 Since the Braves developed the starting rotation that has produced five of the last six National League Cy Young awards, they have come the closest of any team to using a four-man rotation, at times using the starters with three days rest but at other times inserting a fifth starter when the schedule doesn't provide a day off.
Whether Glavine is pitching every fourth or fifth day, though, he keeps busy between starts, throwing a baseball in some manner virtually every day. When he is on a five-day schedule, he plays catch the day after he starts to get loose, throws from a mound on the side the next two days, and then plays catch in the outfield with Mazzone the day before he starts again, going through his sequence of pitches in the process.
"It keeps my arm stronger," Glavine said, explaining the reason for his routine, "and the more you can throw a ball, the more you're going to develop touch with your pitches, the more you're going to develop feel for your pitches. The only way you're really going to be able to totally understand your mechanics and totally understand what it feels like when you throw the ball right or don't throw the ball right is to practice it."
A runner, the left-hander added, trains by running, a weight lifter by lifting weights. "Why if you're a pitcher, can't you throw?" he said.
Glavine recalled that it was Mazzone's throwing program that enabled him to strengthen his arm and overcome a naggingly sore arm he endured throughout the 1992 season. In a similar manner, Earl Weaver's pitching policy in Baltimore benefited Jim Palmer.
George Bamberger, who as Weaver's pitching coach helped produce 18 20-game winners in 10 years, told about how they nursed Palmer and his sore arm in 1968.
"Here's a guy who is hurt and doesn't know if he's ever going to play again," Bamberger, now retired, said. "We start pitching him in a four-man rotation and he wins the Cy Young award three times and 20 games eight times. A four-man rotation certainly didn't hurt Jim Palmer."
Palmer and the other three pitchers in the four-man rotation all emerged as 20-game winners in 1971. Palmer and Pat Dobson each pitched 282 innings, Mike Cuellar 292 and Dave McNally 224. No team has had four 20-game winners since, and it has been 10 years, since 1987, that the four busiest pitchers in either league collectively have thrown as many or more innings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Greg Maddux, talking with a coach, Leo Mazzone, is one of the more durable pitchers, registering nine consecutive 200-inning seasons. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SEATTLE MARINERS (58%); SEATTLE MARINERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (58%); SEATTLE MARINERS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; PINIELLA, LOU; RYAN, NOLAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



628 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: The B & B Alternative Spreads In Western Suffolk and Nassau

BYLINE: By REGINA MARCAZZO 

 BODY:
WHEN Diane Whalen bought her house on Oak Street in Port Jefferson Village, she envisioned opening a bed-and-breakfast in the 19th-century Victorian structure.
More than six years later the house has become the Brick Hill Bed and Breakfast. 
 "The house is just very conducive to a bed-and-breakfast," said Ms. Whalen, who has filled her quarters and four guest rooms with antiques.
Brick Hill is one of several new B & B's on Long Island; it is the second in Port Jefferson Village.
Although B &B's have long been popular on the East End, they have been opening in greater numbers in western Suffolk County and in Nassau, appealing to many as a desirable alternative to hotels and motels. The lodging option also works well in smaller areas that lack rooms for visitors.
While the number of B & B lodgings are growing, the total number of such rooms offered all over Long Island would not add up to the number of rooms in a large hotel, according to Robert Lipper of Metro Publications, who publishes a magazine distributed in Island hotel rooms. "It offers a quiet more secluded atmosphere and it's very personable. It's more like home."
B & B prices range from $50 to almost $300 a night in the Long Island Lodging Guide's spring 1997 edition. A number of facilities require a two-night minimum.
Two Suffolk Towns, Brookhaven and Huntington, adopted bed-and-breakfast ordinances in the spring.
"There's been an increase in bed-and-breakfasts over the years," said Mr. Lipper, who listed 38 in his Lodging Guide last year and lists 52 in the spring 1997 edition.
The guide lists 13, compared with 9 last year, west of the East End.
"A lot of these are business people," Mr. Lipper said of the guests. "It's not the traditional vacationer."
"Our perspective," said the president of the Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau, Michael Davidson, "is that there is a portion of the traveling public that likes nontraditional places to stay and that's where the bed-and-breakfast world comes from. It opens up opportunities. We think it's a good thing. We're becoming aware of more and more of them. I think they need to be supported by local government."
Wendy and Richard Duvall have been welcoming guests to the Country Life Bed and Breakfast in Hempstead for 15 years. The guests, they say, include foreign tourists who are looking for tranquil refuges close to New York City, doctors and patients involved with nearby hospitals and business people on temporary assignments.
The Duvalls' first guests, a British couple who visited on their honeymoon 15 years ago, have returned many times and have become like a part of the family. "After they left they called us Mom and Dad," Mr. Duvall said.
The Duvalls go to bed-and-breakfasts when they travel and share stories and recipes with other owners.
"We've had amazing people here," said Mr. Duvall, who said he had learned about World War II from many guests. He has also learned about taking apart musical instruments and had famous singers knock on the back door. An Italian organ builder stayed for a month two years in a row while taking apart and putting back together an organ that the guest's grandfather had built for a church in Garden City.
"He would give us daily reports on it," Mr. Duvall said. "He built some of the greatest organs in the world."
Nassau County has one other listing in the guide, My Country Home in Syosset.
The Lindenmere in Center Moriches, at the estate formerly owned by Ferdinand E. Marcos, the Philippine strongman, is the first bed-and-breakfast to open since the Town of Brookhaven passed its ordinance in April to promote them.
"It's too large for two people," said Jennie Magaro, who with her husband, Dr. Peter Magaro, bought the estate last year and readopted the former name.
With 12 guest rooms, the Lindenmere offers a bay view and a pool house. Mrs. Magaro said she believed that B & B's were a good alternative to other lodgings for small seaside towns like Center Moriches.
"To me it's really a salvation for a bunch of small towns," she said. "How many people want the upkeep of a house this size? It's not just for our benefit. I think it's a really nice alternative to preserve old properties."
Brookhaven will permit B & B's in historic and shoreline communities like Center Moriches and will require owner occupancy and no more guest bedrooms than the number already in existence, minus one for the owner.
"This planning mechanism," said Supervisor Felix Grucci Jr., "will help us protect and preserve property values and promote the efficient use of the town's existing stock of single-family dwellings while providing some measure of economic relief to families of modest income."
The five-year permits are not transferrable and require that guests stay for no longer than 14 days. The characteristics of the houses have to remain intact, with no special entrances and one kitchen. B & B signs can be no larger than six square feet.
Pat Darling said the Holly Berry Bed and Breakfast, which she has operated in Port Jefferson since 1995, was filled nearly every weekend through the summer.
An application for a third B & B is pending, but the village has imposed a six-month moratorium on approvals to look closely at the ordinance, according to Village Clerk Caroline Savino. "It was after the second application that the village realized that the law needed refining," Ms. Savino said.
"I think the greatest shortcoming is people not thinking of us as being a business," Ms. Darling said. "They're a tremendous investment if you do it right."
She devotes much time to details like serving candlelight breakfasts and decorating the rooms in themes, and she changes the decorations on her picket fence seasonally.
"It is my giant doll house," said Ms. Darling, who had a Holly Berry doll made and plays host to grandmothers, mothers and young girls for special weekends.
In Centerport Jean and Jim Vavrina were waiting for the Town of Huntington to pass an ordinance permitting B & B's.
The president of the Centerport Harbor Civic Association, Gloria Wertheimer, said her group had sent a questionnaire to its members for reactions on the Vavrinas' proposal. Of 100 questionnaires, 2 were returned, with one concerned about parking and another opposed to the entire plan.
"We really felt it was going to be quite harmless," Ms. Wertheimer said.
Councilman Steve Israel, who introduced a B & B ordinance in May, said, "If a bed-and-breakfast makes sense historically, environmentally, culturally and economically, then our Town Board should allow it to be considered on a case-by-case basis."
Under the measure a bed-and-breakfast has to be the main residence of the owner, and it must be limited to two bedrooms. No guests can stay for more than seven days, and the Town Board can revoke the permit at any time.
The house cannot harm the character of the neighborhood, and it has to have adequate parking. The bill also bars B & B's within 500 feet of each other. The Vavrinas have owned their house on Centershore Road, in a historic district, for 15 years. Mrs. Vavrina had registered her bed-and-breakfast as a business with Suffolk County and took a course in food service before finding out that she was not be able to open the business.
"Fifty percent of tourists in western Suffolk seek lodging," Mr. Israel said. "It helps our museums. It helps our local restaurants. It helps our merchants. There are a lot of historical properties that are deteriorating."
Bed-and-breakfasts are not always welcome. Neighbors are sometimes skeptical about parking, lengths of stays and other potential problems.
When Mark Russo applied last year to turn a former adult home on Woodbine Avenue in Northport into a B & B the Village Zoning denied the application.
"It's perfectly set up to run as a lodging facility," said Mr. Russo. "Northport is severely lacking in lodging facilities. It's about crossing all the legal 'T's' and dotting all the legal 'I's.' "
Although he is awaiting a decision from the village, Mr. Russo plans to open a three-bedroom B & B this weekend. Called the Hillcrest Manor, Mr. Russo is featuring Victorian and Provincial furniture, artwork by five artists and breakfast prepared by a gourmet chef and baker. He will charge $70 to $100 a night depending on the time of the week.
Mr. Russo expects to receive a summons from Northport Village and a subsequent court date. A zoning board of appeals decision on a May public hearing asking for approval for a multiple dwelling for occupancy of 10 or for a 10-bedroom lodging house is pending, according to village officials.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wendy Duvall, top, at her Garden City bed and breakfast; a bedroom, top right, at the 1800 House, a bed and breakfast in Westhampton, and Jim and Jean Vavrina outside their home, which they want to make into a B & B. (Photographs by Steve Berman for The New York Times; Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Bed and breakfasts have increased on the Island. The breakfast room, left, at the 1708 House, a bed and breakfast in Southampton, and the porch at the Westhampton Country Manor. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNTRY LIFE VITAMINS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BED-AND-BREAKFAST LODGINGS BED & BREAKFAST INNS (93%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (68%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (68%); TOURISM (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); 

PERSON: MARCAZZO, REGINA MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



629 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: A Chancellor's Fate

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
For seven years, W. Ann Reynolds has served as Chancellor of the City University of New York. How much longer she will continue is anyone's guess.
In recent weeks, criticism of her performance by trustees has mushroomed, and the chairwoman of the board has talked publicly about considering possible successors. 
 But if board members are so unhappy with her, why do they not just dismiss her, rather than continue their public attacks, attacks that some feel are undermining the university itself?
Procedurally, dismissing the Chancellor is not difficult. She serves at the pleasure of the board, and has no employment contract as Chancellor. Nor is there any due process. All it takes is a majority of the board -- nine votes -- deciding to make a change.
Until now, however, that majority did not seem to exist. Although the board leaders -- the chairwoman, Anne A. Paolucci, and vice chairman, Herman Badillo -- have led the attacks and are often seen as speaking for the board, they hold only two votes. There are 16 voting board members, including a student, and a faculty member who does not have a vote.
If Dr. Paolucci and Mr. Badillo can make the situation uncomfortable enough that the Chancellor resigns, they do not need more support. But in a vote, they would need seven other trustees. And while a loose coalition has formed around Dr. Paolucci and Mr. Badillo, the nine trustees that Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani named last summer have not always voted together.
The appointment of two new trustees this month could change the arithmetic. Some trustees predict that the new trustees will most likely join the Paolucci coalition, since one, Kenneth E. Cook, was sponsored by the same Conservative Party that backed Dr. Paolucci's appointment, and the other, Alfred B. Curtis Jr., was a loyal official in the Giuliani administration, with which Mr. Badillo has close ties. But it is too early to say definitively how they would vote.
Mr. Cook could not be reached for comment at his home on Friday. But Mr. Curtis, who was youth commissioner under Mayor Giuliani and is now president of the United Nations Development Corporation, said he is still trying to learn as much as he can about CUNY and is spending two or three hours a night poring over documents.
"My gut feeling is that something has got to give, and that we have got to make some decisions and move ahead," he said. "We need to return to a relationship of trust between the chancellor and the board."
He added, however, "I haven't arrived at any conclusion. I need to understand the full intricacies of the board and its politics before I can reach a decision."
But for other trustees, the blowup last month over Hostos Community College was a catalytic event. At its May meeting, the board believed it was reinforcing existing policy when it voted to require students at Hostos and all of the community colleges in the City University system to pass its writing test in English before graduating. The trustees later discovered that five of the six community colleges did not require the test for graduation, and many blamed the Chancellor for the embarrassment that resulted.
But even as their attacks on the Chancellor have escalated, Dr. Paolucci and Mr. Badillo have said they need more time to evaluate Dr. Reynolds, and that they will watch what she does this summer.
"Certainly by the end of the summer, we should have very clear movement on the issues we have outlined," Mr. Badillo said.
He said he and other trustees have clearly delineated areas where they want change, including reducing the time students spend in remedial classes, reducing grade inflation and fixing problems at Hostos.
"I want Ann Reynolds to take the leadership," Mr. Badillo added.
Another test, trustees say, will be the report they have asked the Chancellor to give them by Aug. 1, laying out the community colleges' graduation requirements and their policies on the English writing test, and also what actions they should take against the community college presidents for not having been forthcoming about their policies at the May board meeting.
"The report she gives us on Aug. 1 may be the litmus test," said Ronald J. Marino, the trustee who requested the report. "If she just gives us a couple of pieces of paper and calls that a report, it is not good enough."
But Edith Everett, a longtime board member and strong supporter of the Chancellor, called the report a foolish test and said the community college presidents should be punished for not being able to explain their campus procedures.
"Their behavior is irrational," she said, referring to the other trustees.
A spokeswoman for Ms. Reynolds, Jay Hershenson, yesterday reiterated her intention to work "cooperatively and constructively" with all trustees.
And at least one trustee, James P. Murphy, the former board chairman who has been working to bring the two sides together, held out hope that rapprochement is possible.
"My sense is that they can work together if they try to," he said. "And I think there are others on the board who feel the same and would prefer their best efforts at trying to work together rather than the kind of chaos that develops if that doesn't happen."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 1997, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Sunday about the fate of W. Ann Reynolds, the Chancellor of the City University of New York, who has been sharply criticized by some trustees, misstated the position of one trustee on whether community college presidents should be punished for failing to inform the trustees about testing requirements at their colleges. The trustee, Edith Everett, said the presidents should not be punished.
Because of an editing error, the article also referred incorrectly to Jay Hershenson, a spokesman for Ms. Reynolds. He is a man.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (56%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); DISMISSALS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (75%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: REYNOLDS, W ANN (CHANCELLOR); ARENSON, KAREN W; PAOLUCCI, ANNE A (DR); BADILLO, HERMAN; COOK, KENNETH E; CURTIS, ALFRED B JR RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



630 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2843 words

HEADLINE: Hold the Jokes, Please: Aeroflot Buffs Its Image

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
AEROFLOT has long held a worldwide reputation for rude service, disgusting food and scary landings. Comedians have made Aeroflot jokes for decades. Now the Russian airline is making fun of itself.
In its first big multimedia advertising campaign, Aeroflot has chosen a new image for itself: a flying elephant. 
 All over Russia, in magazine advertising and on TV commercials and billboards, a huge, gray, heavily wrinkled pachyderm will soon soar beatifically across blue skies.
The advertising slogan, taken from a familiar Russian idiom, translates loosely as "light on its feet" but the underlying, tongue-in-cheek message to skeptical consumers is to suspend judgment: elephants can fly, and so can Aeroflot. It is a startling, offbeat pitch, and a daring departure for one of the former Soviet Union's most somber and ponderous institutions.
Aeroflot, now officially known as Aeroflot Russian International Airlines, has shrunk drastically since the Communist state collapsed, bringing the world's largest airline down with it.
As it struggles to remold itself to fit Western standards of promotion, safety and service, Aeroflot offers a telling glimpse into the opaque inner workings of Russian business -- both the ways in which it has changed and the ways it has not.
Aeroflot is preparing to sell about 10 percent of its shares on the United States market in September, part of an ambitious drive to raise several billion dollars to start replacing its aging fleet with new Ilyushins, Boeings and Airbuses to compete better in the world market.
But the airline is lobbying the Government to keep protectionist restrictions on Russian air space, locking Moscow into a regulatory dispute with Washington that could sabotage Aeroflot's own triumphantly announced alliance with Continental Airlines.
The state retains 51 percent of Aeroflot's stock, but in many ways Aeroflot looks like a modern Russian corporation with all the trimmings: fancy offices in New York and London, a glossy annual report, an offshore subsidiary in Switzerland and a site on the World Wide Web (www.aeroflot.org).
The Export-Import Bank of the United States and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have agreed to lend Aeroflot a total of nearly $1.5 billion over 10 years to purchase new planes.
Because Aeroflot also wants to raise money from Western investors, Price Waterhouse is preparing an American-style audit of Aeroflot, due to be published in July, to help it meet the detailed disclosure requirements for an offering of American depository receipts. Though the eventual underwriters have yet to be selected, Salomon Brothers is the lead consultant on the deal.
Yet within Aeroflot, a Soviet mind-set lingers. Internal company charts and graphs still refer to competing Western companies like Delta and Lufthansa as "capitalist airlines."
Aeroflot, with 115 planes, transported 3.8 million passengers last year -- a fraction of the 5,400 planes and 138 million passengers it boasted in 1991. (In comparison, Delta has 552 planes and carried 91.3 million passengers in 1996.) Aeroflot had an after-tax profit of $24.5 million in 1996, slightly less than had been projected but a vast improvement over years of profits that may well have been more wish than reality. But in order to replace about 70 percent of its aged fleet, the company needs a lot more money than it currently earns. The debt-ridden Russian Government cannot help.
"The times when the state provided Aeroflot with everything from planes to napkins are gone," said Valery Okulov, a former Aeroflot navigator who was appointed last month as the company's general director. Mr. Okulov should know: his wife, Yelena, is the elder daughter of Boris N. Yeltsin, the Russian President.
Mr. Okulov, who hopes to lure back passengers, Russian and foreign, who fled Aeroflot in droves as soon as other, more reputable Western carriers became easily available, recently laid out his company's goals at a news conference. "We are making efforts to renovate our planes," he said. "We pay more attention to advertising. We are trying to be more flexible on tariffs and improve service and safety."
Aeroflot and Russian aviation reached a nadir in 1994, when a record number of crashes on domestic routes drove the United States Embassy to instruct employees not to travel around Russia by air. Aeroflot's most infamous disaster also occurred that year, when an Airbus A310 crashed on its way to Hong Kong after the pilot allowed his 13-year-old son to take over the controls. All 75 people aboard were killed.
The Embassy's warning was lifted after the Russian Government agreed to work with the Federal Aviation Administration to improve its standards, and crash rates have fallen in the last two years. But a 1996 book, "Flying Blind, Flying Safe," by Mary Schiavo, a former inspector general for the Department of Transportation, which advises passengers to "avoid Russian-made planes at all costs," caused a furor here. Public opinion, at home and abroad, remains deeply skeptical about aviation safety in Russia.
For good reason. Not one of Russia's 3,000 airports meets the top Western standards for radar and tracking equipment, while nearly all of the primary American airports meet those standards. Even the biggest Russian airports are filthy, poorly equipped, congested and chaotic.
Aeroflot's extreme downsizing occurred shortly after the Soviet Union collapsed, as newly independent republics and newly empowered regions of Russia laid claim to planes and equipment in their territories. The state was forced to break up Aeroflot's monopoly and to spin off almost all its domestic routes to more than 300 small, regional airlines known as "Babyflots."
But some things have not changed: flights within the former Soviet Union, whether Aeroflot's or its progeny's, are still often canceled or delayed, and they still feature bad food, surly service and alarmingly dilapidated cabins.
On a flight last summer to Stavropol in southern Russia, a passenger was scoldingly instructed to fasten his seat belt. When he held up a broken buckle, the flight attendant shrugged and ordered him to tie the two ends together.
In Soviet times, air travel was relatively cheap, and planes would often be filled with farmers carting huge bundles of produce -- even chickens and other livestock. The soaring costs of airplane tickets have driven those customers back to trains and buses, but it is still not unusual to see pet poodles and Labradors boarding Aeroflot planes alongside their owners. And, before takeoff, air-conditioning in summer is as rare as heat in winter.
ON international flights, however, service is noticeably better. To most major destinations, Aeroflot passengers can fly on a modern Airbus or Boeing jetliner. (Aeroflot now has 10 Airbus A310's, two Boeing 767's and six new Russian Il-96-300's. It also hopes to buy 20 Ilyushins -- outfitted with American Pratt & Whitney engines -- as well as 10 Boeing 737's. It plans to lease 5 more A310's in the next five years.)
Passengers on international flights receive service comparable to that on Western airlines. There are choices -- chicken or beef -- for meals. Smiling attendants are snappily dressed. There is a groaning beverage cart, a glossy in-flight magazine, duty-free shopping and movies. On some flights, there are first-class or business-class cabins, which are usually filled with newly rich Russians.
Fares are generally lower on Aeroflot than for its rivals, but there are exceptions: A regular round-trip economy ticket to New York from Moscow costs $1,700 on Delta and $1,137 on Aeroflot. But Finnair, the Finnish airline, which offers flights to New York via Helsinki, charges $984 -- one reason that last year, it carried three times as many Russian passengers abroad from Moscow as Aeroflot.
To undercut the competition, Aeroflot recently introduced a tantalizing special offer: From June 16 to July 6, the airline promised to sell round-trip tickets to Moscow from New York for $220, according to ads appearing in New York, and then the passenger could choose another round trip to one of several other cities -- Paris, Rome, Tokyo, Beijing and others among the 100 worldwide that Aeroflot serves -- for another $220. The ads noted that space was limited, and the red tape and ticketing delays were so severe at swamped Aeroflot booking offices that customers who actually secured the special fares are now treated with the envious awe usually reserved for lottery winners.
Aeroflot, however, has one selling point that no other major carrier offers: Smoking is permitted in special sections.
That is one difference Aeroflot intends to convey subliminally to Russian customers in its new ad campaign. One commercial, planned to debut in late summer or fall, features foreign passengers in business class, debating Russia's future. As the camera sweeps across the cabin, it glides over a beverage cart and a telltale cloud of blue smoke.
"We can't say it, but we can show it," explained the ad campaign's creative director, Yuri Bokser, of Premier SV, the Russian advertising firm that is producing Aeroflot's $7 million ad campaign. "Russians want to smoke."
But it will take more than a smoking section for Aeroflot to bloom. Aviation experts say the area with the most potential growth is the domestic market, and Aeroflot lost most of its domestic routes both to smaller Russian rivals and to foreign carriers like Lufthansa, which flies to many Russian cities, bypassing Moscow. Aeroflot is trying to recapture some of its lost routes, but it is currently focused on the international market, where it has few advantages over foreign competitors.
"The only real asset they have is landing rights in Moscow and St. Petersburg," said James R. Fenkner, director of research at Centre Invest Group, a consulting and securities company in Moscow that recently completed a less-than-bullish brokerage report on Aeroflot. Mr. Fenkner says he thinks that Aeroflot shares, currently selling for about $95 on the Russian stock market, are overvalued.
"Aeroflot is concentrated on the international market, where they have to compete with companies that are already operating very effectively."
AEROFLOT flies to 94 countries, and offers seven flights a week to New York. So does Delta Airlines, the only American carrier currently flying nonstop to Moscow from New York. That market may soon become more crowded: Transaero, a six-year-old privately owned Russian airline that boasts newer planes and better service, plans to offer a Moscow-New York flight by next year. It has made deep inroads into Aeroflot's domestic market and already flies to Los Angeles.
To wedge itself deeper into the trans-Atlantic market, Aeroflot signed a landmark code-sharing agreement with Continental this spring that would allow Aeroflot to sell blocks of seats on Continental flights between Moscow and Continental's hub in Newark. The arrangement would give Aeroflot passengers one-stop booking and lower fares to 70 cities Continental serves from Newark -- as well as frequent-flier miles on Continental.
But that deal is imperiled by Russia's refusal to grant other American carriers landing rights in Russia through their European partners, an arrangement known as third-country code-sharing. Delta, for example, wants to increase its service to Russia by routing Moscow-bound passengers through Vienna on Austrian Airlines, with which it has a code-sharing agreement.
Moscow has blocked this and a few similar arrangements.
"There has been a very bald refusal to meet the provisions of the U.S.-Russia bilateral agreement," said Paul Gretch, director of the office of international aviation at the United States Department of Transportation. "Until they approve third-country code-sharing, the U.S. will not agree to the Continental-Aeroflot deal."
Aeroflot is equally adamant that Russia should not allow more competitors in -- even at the risk of jeopardizing its agreement with Continental. "We are not going to open the sky in the foreseeable future either to American or other airline companies," Mr. Okulov said sternly. "At least I hope not."
The chief financial officer of Aeroflot is Nikolai Glushkov, who is also acting chairman of Logovaz, a leading media and oil conglomerate founded by Boris A. Berezovsky. Mr. Berezovsky, who handed control of Logovaz over to Mr. Glushkov when he became deputy secretary of the National Security Council, is a business leader who helped to bankroll Mr. Yeltsin's re-election campaign last summer. Mr. Berezovsky's companies are a symbol of the cozy co-dependence between big business and the Kremlin. Russian newspapers have raised questions about whether Logovaz's ties to Aeroflot are in the best long-term interest of the airline.
The Russian Government denies any plans to sell its Aeroflot shares in the near future, but in an interview Mr. Glushkov said he thought a sale could take place as soon as next year. He acknowledged that Logovaz planned to buy as many shares as it could when the sale occurred, but said that neither he nor Logovaz had yet bought any stock. They are well-positioned, however: A Logovaz team manages Aeroflot, and the company that registers sales and purchases of Aeroflot shares is Fondovaya Registratsionnaya Kompaniya, an offshoot of Sibneft, the big oil company in which Mr. Berezovsky has a large stake.
The price of Aeroflot shares quadrupled in the last six months, from $30 in December to more than $120 last month, before dropping to $83 this week after a decline in the overall Russian stock market. The recent gains occurred partly because unidentified companies have been buying employee shares; one Aeroflot spokesman said that as many as 15 percent of employee-held shares had been bought by outsiders. The company says no single buyer controls more than 2.5 percent of the stock.
IF and when the state's shares are sold, economic analysts wonder whether a new owner like Logovaz will make Aeroflot attractive to foreign investors. "If the company is effectively controlled by Logovaz, minority shareholders may not do so well," Mr. Fenkner said.
Aeroflot is run Russian-style, from the top down. Top directors make decisions with little input or preliminary research by middle-level executives. The daring new advertising campaign is a case in point: When Aeroflot decided it needed a face lift, its directors did not hold a competition or spend months weighing various proposals. They made a gut decision.
Mr. Berezovsky had put Mr. Glushkov in touch with Sergei Lisovsky, a protege who controls advertising time on ORT, the network in which Mr. Berezovsky owns a large stake. Mr. Lisovsky also owns the Premier SV advertising company, one of the most aggressive in Russia. Mr. Lisovsky brought Mr. Bokser to Mr. Glushkov, who listened a few minutes, then gave a green light. "He just said, 'Fine, let's do it,' " Mr. Bokser recalled admiringly. "It was so un-Soviet."
Others high in the company see something all too reminiscent of Communist-style decision-making. "There is no glasnost in the selection of proposals from advertising agencies," Mr. Okulov complained at his news conference. "Some of our ads harm the company's image."
When he was still deputy general director, Mr. Okulov is said to have preferred a Russian bear as a more dignified, nationalist image-builder for the company, but his aides say that though he has not warmed to the flying elephant mascot, he has no plans to kill it now that he is the boss.
Perhaps the most vivid sign that Aeroflot is becoming more of a Western-style airline is the attitude of its regular customers. Citizens of the old Soviet Union often viewed foreign travel as a Government-granted privilege and Aeroflot personnel as the eyes and ears of the state. Now Aeroflot passengers can be as blase or petulant as any frequent fliers in the United States.
"Before, a trip abroad was something exceptional for our passengers -- they behaved, they were even afraid of doing something wrong," said Irina Gudalina, 38, who has been an Aeroflot flight attendant for 21 years and was taking a refresher course last week at an Aeroflot training school in Moscow. She makes $152 a month, plus a per diem payment of about $45 for each day she works.
"Now there is freedom but no culture," she said. "They feel free to do anything they want. Some passengers are downright scornful -- one will throw a few bucks on my trolley and say, 'I smoke where I want.' "
 The chart also referred incorrectly to Aeroflot's plans to raise money to modernize its fleet; the company hopes to raise billions of dollars, of which only a part, still undetermined, will come from international equity markets.
 The chart also referred incorrectly to Aeroflot's plans to raise money to modernize its fleet; the company hopes to raise billions of dollars, of which only a part, still undetermined, will come from international equity markets.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 1997, SundayJuly 6, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the revamping of Aeroflot Russian International Airlines misstated the year of publication of "Flying Blind, Flying Safe," a book by Mary Schiavo that describes the perils of airline passengers. It was 1997, not 1996.
A chart with the article referred incorrectly to the start of civilian jet airline service. The first company to offer it was the British Overseas Air Corporation, not Aeroflot. The British service began in 1952; Aeroflot's started in 1956.
An article last Sunday about the revamping of Aeroflot Russian International Airlines misstated the year of publication of "Flying Blind, Flying Safe," a book by Mary Schiavo that describes the perils of airline passengers. It was 1997, not 1996.
A chart with the article referred incorrectly to the start of civilian jet airline service. The first company to offer it was the British Overseas Air Corporation, not Aeroflot. The British service began in 1952; Aeroflot's started in 1956.

GRAPHIC: Photos: That Was Then: Waiting for Aeroflot, above, at the Moscow airport in 1990. At left, a familiar cold war scene as Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev arrived at Kennedy Airport in 1989. (The New York Times; Archive Photos); This Is Now? Learning to lift spirits, above, in a refresher course for flight attendants at the Aeroflot training center. The airline's new mascot is an elephant light on its feet. (Inset by Gleb Kosorukov for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Aeroflot began the world's first civilian jet airline service in 1956 with its Tu-104 (above). The world's first supersonic jetliner -- completed before the Concorde -- was the Soviet Tu-144 (above), which first flew in 1968. The pride of Soviet aeronautics, it also became a symbol of Aeroflot's safety problems when a demonstration model crashed at the Paris Air Show in 1973 (right). (Gerard Cagyat/The New York Times; photographs by Associated Press (Tu-104); United Press International (Tu-144, Tu-144 crash))(pg. 13)
 
Chronology: "Taking the Measure of the Elephant"
Aeroflot Russian International Airlines, the successor to the giant Aeroflot airline of the old Soviet Union, is remaking itself to meet new challenges. The airline is seeking to raise money to modernize its fleet by selling about 10 percent of its shares on the United States market in September.
 
AEROFLOT THROUGH THE YEARS
 
Once it controlled all civil aviation in the Soviet Union, and the Cyrillic logo on its planes was a familiar feature in news photographs taken at airports around the world. Now its domestic monopoly, its mammoth fleet and its cold war role are all consigned to the past. Here are highlights of Aeroflot's long history.
 
1928 -- Russian Volunteer Airfleet and Ukrainian Airways, both started a few years before, are combined to form a single Soviet state airline, Dobroflot.
 
1932 -- Dobroflot is reorganized to become Aeroflot. Within three years, Aeroflot's network of routes extends across the Soviet Union to the Black Sea, the Caucasus and Central Asia.
 
1941 -- After Germany invades the Soviet Union, Aeroflot is absorbed into the Soviet air force for the remainder of World War II. For decades afterward, most Aeroflot aircraft are designed to be quickly converted to military use, if needed.
 
1956 -- Aeroflot initiates the world's first civilian jet airline service, between Moscow and Irkutsk in Siberia. The Tu-104 aircraft had the same engines and wings as the Tu-16 bomber.
 
1968 -- The world's first flight by a supersonic airliner, a prototype of the Soviet Tu-144, takes place; the prototype of the English-French Concorde does not fly until the following year. America's supersonic jetliner program is canceled by Congress in 1971 before the Boeing aircraft ever flies.
 
Aeroflot begins service between Moscow and New York, the first direct air link between the United States and the Soviet Union since the cold war began after World War II.
 
1972-73 -- Aeroflot is plagued by accidents, 10 in two years, including the crash of a supersonic Tu-144 at the 1973 Paris Air Show.
 
A crash of a three-engine Tu-154 leads to a drive within Aeroflot to match the airline's Western competitors in simulator training. Before, almost all flight training for pilots was carried out in actual aircraft, where practicing some kinds of emergencies is not possible.
 
1975 -- Aeroflot announces it will begin supersonic airline service on Christmas Day between Moscow and Alma-Ata. But the service does not actually get under way until almost two years later.
 
1980's -- Aeroflot offers air service to every continent (including, on occasion, to Antarctica).
 
1981 -- The Reagan Administration cuts off Aeroflot service to the United States after martial law is declared in Poland. Flights do not resume until almost five years later, following a 1985 summit meeting of Presidents Reagan and Gorbachev in Geneva.
 
1984 -- The supersonic Tu-144 is withdrawn from service permanently after seven years, mainly because of high operating costs.
 
1992 -- After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Government of the Russian Federation decides to split up Aeroflot. More than 300 small regional airlines, known as Babyflots, emerge to take over most domestic routes. Aeroflot retains most international routes and is reorganized as Aeroflot Russian International Airlines.
 
1997 -- Aeroflot plans to raise billions of dollars on the international equity markets in the autumn to pay for modernization of its fleet.
 
Graphs: "AEROFLOT AS A CARRIER"
In 1995, Aeroflot carried roughly the same number of international passengers as Continental and had a fleet about the size of Air Nippon Airways. In recent years, Aeroflot has had trouble increasing its passenger business, measured in passenger kilometers flown, an industry gauge that combines customer counts and flight distances. It has had better luck with freight, but only a fifth of Aeroflot's revenue comes from hauling cargo. Graphs show passenger and freight traffic, 1991-95. Charts show size rankings of airlines (1995) and the kind of passenger fleet owned or leased.
 
"AEROFLOT AS A BUSINESS"
Aeroflot has managed to increase revenue in recent years, but its profit margins have shrunk drastically, as have pretax profits. One reason: Aeroflot planes now fly only three-fifths full, on average, a load factor that is much lower than that of airlines like Air Canada or Continental, which carry similar numbers of international passengers. Aeroflot changed its accounting methods after 1994, somewhat reducing the profits it reports. Graphs show total revenue, net profit, and load factor.
 
(Sources: International Air Transport Association, "Aeroflot: An Airline and Its aircraft" (Paladwr Press), Centre Invest Securites, Aeroflot)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: AFLT (RTS) (92%); LHA (FRA) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (63%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (63%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SWITZERLAND (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (90%); UKRAINE (79%); ASIA (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); POLAND (79%); ANTARCTICA (74%); GERMANY (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (67%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AEROFLOT RUSSIAN INTERNATIONAL AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (92%); EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (63%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AEROFLOT RUSSIAN INTERNATIONAL AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); SWITZERLAND (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (90%); UKRAINE (79%); ASIA (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); POLAND (79%); ANTARCTICA (74%); GERMANY (72%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (67%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ADVERTISING; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES AIRLINES (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (73%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (72%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); ANNUAL REPORTS (70%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (70%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (70%); PROTECTIONISM (69%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (68%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); CHRISTMAS (59%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



631 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:

SUPREME COURT
Liberty for Cyberlibertines
In a sweeping endorsement of free speech in cyberspace, the Supreme Court declared unconstitutional a Federal law that was intended to protect minors by making it a crime to put "indecent" material on the Internet. The decision delighted a coalition of Internet users, the computer industry and civil liberties groups. In other decisions affecting business, the court gave Federal prosecutors and securities regulators a major victory, ruling that insider trading laws apply to people with confidential information even if they have no connection to the company involved. The court also struck down a landmark $1.3 billion class-action settlement for victims of asbestos exposure; upheld a New Deal-era Federal marketing program that requires agricultural companies to help pay for industrywide advertising, and denied prison guards employed by private companies the immunity from prisoner lawsuits enjoyed by guards on public payrolls.
 
THE MARKETS
Forget Stocks. Cut Velvet.
Stocks had a zigzag week that left traders' psyches as battered toward the end of the week as prices were on Monday, when they plunged 192 points on fear that the Japanese might sell United States Treasury securities. Tokyo hastily declared that remarks by Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto had been misinterpreted, and the market climbed back up. By the end of the week, prices were back at last week's levels. The Dow Jones industrial average was off 108.79 at 7,687.72, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index was down 8.95 at 1,438.15. A much better investment, it seems, was made by Diana, Princess of Wales. At a packed Christie's auction in Manhattan, an off-the-shoulder, ink-blue dinner dress in which she danced at the White House with John Travolta sold for a record $222,500. Altogether the auction of 79 dresses owned by Diana raised $3.25 million for cancer and AIDS charities. The dresses originally cost about $5,000 each, so the gain was more than eightfold. 

THE ENVIRONMENT
Tightening Pollution Rules
President Clinton approved significantly tighter pollution limits on deadly soot and choking smog, while offering states and cities substantial flexibility in reaching the new goals. Ending a fierce behind-the-scenes battle, Mr. Clinton sided with the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, Carol M. Browner, against the concerns of his economic advisers. They had balked in the face of industry complaints that the rules would cost far more than they were worth. Earlier in the week, European leaders were openly critical of the United States at a United Nations-sponsored conference, demanding that Washington be far more aggressive in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases.
 
TOBACCO SETTLEMENT
A Bargain at $368.5 Billion?
Will there indeed be a $368.5 billion tobacco settlement, or is it all a pipe dream? President Clinton called the agreement, which is intended to pay for public service advertising and medical costs, flawed but a beginning. It might hobble the Government's regulation of nicotine, he said. Critics contended that it was too favorable to the tobacco industry, and a panel of public health experts named to advise Congress labeled it unacceptable. The state Attorneys General who negotiated the landmark pact defended it. "It's the best anyone has put forward," said Christine Gregoire of Washington." If it is accepted, Philip Morris will provide the bulk -- $6.5 billion -- of the initial payment of $10 billion.
 
PERSONAL COMPUTERS
They Call Them 'User Friendly'
Today's personal computers have too many features and demand that users learn far too much. Calling the machines "user friendly" because of their endless choice of fonts and screen patterns "is tantamount to dressing a chimpanzee in a green hospital gown and earnestly parading it as a surgeon." The technophobe who uttered these words? None other than Dr. Michael L. Dertouzos, head of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's computer laboratory. "People should really revolt," he said. "I think we should take up arms." But children, of course, can master the monsters. So William H. Gates, the co-founder of Microsoft and the nation's richest person, is creating the Gates Library Foundation. It will spend $200 million over five years to bring new computers and the Internet into the nation's public libraries.
 
DIGITAL TV
Giving Broadcasters a Break
In April, Federal regulators lent each of the nation's 1,600 television stations a second channel so they could do parallel broadcasts -- standard and digital. Once the transition to new high-definition digital broadcasting was complete, the extra channels were to be vacated, and the Government would auction them for a projected $5 billion. But under provisions that lobbyists have managed to work into House and Senate budget bills, the broadcast-television industry could keep the additional channels indefinitely, while possibly delaying the introduction of digital television broadcasts far beyond Government-set deadlines.
 
THE ECONOMY
Confidence at a 28-Year High
Americans' confidence in the economy continued to climb this month, suggesting that consumer spending may rebound. The Conference Board said that its index of consumer confidence reached a 28-year high of 129.6, up from May's revised index of 127.9. And little wonder. The Commerce Department reported that the economy grew at a slightly faster pace than estimated in the first quarter, at a 5.9 percent annual rate, but inflation remained in check. Also easing fears of inflation, durable-goods orders unexpectedly fell six-tenths of 1 percent in May. Home resales in the month also confounded analysts' expectations, increasing 4.4 percent.
 
THE HAND-OVER
Red Chips Over Hong Kong
As the sun sets on 156 years of British rule, the Hong Kong stock market's Hang Seng Index rose 68.77 points, or five-tenths of 1 percent, to a record 15,196.79, led by the red chips -- the shares of China-backed investment companies. China Everbright International Ltd. jumped 36 percent, and Cosco Pacific Ltd. soared 18 percent. Chinese companies, eager to draw on Hong Kong's expertise in global marketing, see enormous business opportunities when Beijing takes over on Tuesday.
 
MERGERS
Compaq's $3 Billion Deal
Compaq Computer agreed to swap stock worth $3 billion for Tandem Computers, which makes fault-tolerant systems -- large mainframe-like machines used by banks, airlines and telecommunications centers that cannot risk computer failure. Compaq's goal is to grow beyond PC's -- where it is already No. 1 -- to become the world's third-largest computer company after I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard. In other big merger moves, Union Pacific Resources began a hostile $4 billion offer for Pennzoil, and Wachovia agreed to buy Central Fidelity Banks of Richmond for stock worth $2.3 billion. The Zurich Group plans to acquire Scudder Stevens & Clark for $1.67 billion in cash and stock, and Nationsbank was reported to be negotiating to buy Montgomery Securities for as much as $1.2 billion. Other bidders were also expected.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An ice sculpture melts outside the United Nations' conference on pollution. (Reuters; Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Graph shows the Conference Board's index of consumer confidence since the 60's. (Source: Haver Analytics); Chart shows the market share of Compaq in personal computers and Tandem's in computer server revenue for 1996. (Source: International Data Corporation)
 
Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (55%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SUPREME COURTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CARCINOGENS (74%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (72%); INSIDER TRADING (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); CHARITIES (71%); ASBESTOS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CLIMATE CHANGE (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); PARTICULATE MATTER (66%); EMISSIONS (66%); SMOG (66%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (62%); GREENHOUSE GASES (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (86%); CAROL BROWNER (50%); PRINCESS DIANA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1997



632 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1997
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 13; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
Bird Made Him a Sleuth

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
IT was in 1991, at the Golden Nugget flea market in New Jersey, in an overcast field of rusted tools, that the falcon fell in the lap of Ara Chekmayan. It was a mahogany-colored statuette about a foot tall, weighing five pounds and made of resin, for $8. On the underside of the base was inscribed the serial number 90456 WB.
"I suspected right away what that WB meant," said Mr. Chekmayan, 57, an Oscar-nominated director for his 1972 documentary "Children of the Darkness" and a three-time Emmy winner. "It meant Warner Brothers." 
 The director thought he had a quarter-million-dollar find, a means to finance a feature film. Mr. Chekmayan, a resident of Douglaston, Queens, thought he had found gold, but it may only be fool's gold.
You see, Mr. Chekmayan thought the statuette had been one of those used in John Huston's 1941 film noir classic "The Maltese Falcon," based on the novel by Dashiell Hammett. In that story, super-sleuth Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart) finds himself in the middle of an international hunt for a black-enameled bird. Beneath the enamel is thought to be a priceless statue of gold and jewels. A story of shadowy characters and double crosses, the Maltese falcon turns out to be a fake made of lead. So, Mr. Chekmayan, in effect, thought he had the real fake falcon, the holy grail of movie props. And why not? Flea markets and estate sales are packed with people who mine mountains of stuff with the dream of uncovering a lost Picasso or Civil War daguerreotype. True, there's a sucker born every minute, but every now and then someone hits. The new craze is movie memorabilia.
Fueled by theme restaurants like Planet Hollywood and a robust economy, even the big auction houses that once turned up their noses at movie memorabilia have been doing a brisk business since the late 80's. "There is a certain cachet and nostalgia for things Hollywood," said Vredy Lytsman, a spokeswoman for Christie's.
Memorabilia ranges from a $50 B movie hairpiece to a poster from the 1932 Boris Karloff classic "The Mummy," which fetched $453,000 in March at Sotheby's. In fact, last year one of the statuettes believed to have been used as the Maltese falcon, may have gone for as much as $1 million to an unknown European collector, more than three times its weight in gold, making it the most costly prop ever. The exact price has been kept secret.
"It's the most expensive 'fake' in the world," said Ronald Winston, the New York jeweler who bought that statue two years ago for nearly $400,000. It was discovered in the apartment of the actor William Conrad, star of the "Cannon" TV series, after he died in 1994. Mr. Winston turned the prop around and sold it "at an enormous profit" to the mystery collector, who keeps the bird to himself. "The mystique is that it's a fake," he said. "It's supposed to be gold but it isn't."
Before the Conrad piece surfaced, there was thought to be only one falcon, a 47-pound lead statuette owned by a Beverly Hills dental surgeon. The bird traveled the world in 1992 as the featured piece of a Warner Brothers retrospective. Dr. Gary Milan, the owner of that bird and considered the world's expert on the film, said: "Mr. Chekmayan can prove nothing, and since I own the falcon that has been in the movie, I have an interest in demanding that all pretenders prove themselves."
In 1993, Christie's East, believing Mr. Chekmayan had the real McCoy, listed the statue at $50,000. Then the auction house pulled the bird just weeks before bidding, after the studio threatened to sue Mr. Chekmayan or Christie's East if they advertised the falcon as being tied to the movie.
Mr. Chekmayan has spent thousands of hours and as many dollars to authenticate his find. But that doesn't add up to a hill of beans. What he needs is acknowledgment from Warner Brothers. His evidence: publicity photos of the bird taken with the actors on the set; the serial numbers on the resin falcon are consistent with the other two falcons; a 1941 internal memo stating that a plastic model was requisitioned eight days after production began (resin was an early form of plastic), and the 1994 interview that Mr. Chekmayan's brother did with Meta Carpenter Wilde, taped shortly before her death. Mrs. Wilde, the script supervisor, who took meticulous notes for the director John Huston, stated that the resin falcon was made because Bogey was too slight a man to cart a chunk of lead around the set.
"When we were on walking shots," she said, "on a moving shot, Bogart would have a smaller falcon, a six-pound one. Why should he carry around a 47-pound thing?"
Still, the doctor and the studio continued to claim that just one bird existed.
Mr. Chekmayan crisscrossed the country gathering evidence. His parents died. He slipped into a deep depression and dropped out of the movie business. Then, in 1994, William Conrad died. Suddenly, there were two lead birds.
"It looked fishy," said Glenn Brown, an auction house consultant who specializes in movie memorabilia and the organizer of the Profiles in History auction in October 1995 that was to feature the resin falcon. "Days before our auction, we were threatened with a suit and the bird was pulled," Mr. Brown said. "The crowd booed the doctor. It's a cutthroat world. If you think you have a piece worth a half million, you want to protect it."
There are hundreds of phony falcons, and a thousand mopes. The Library of Congress has a fake (according to Warner Brothers) and a sculptor from New Jersey made hundreds before being shut down by the studio.
A Warner Brothers executive said there is no sure way of telling who, if anyone, possesses the real falcon. Prop records were lost in the early 70's. "Basically it goes on faith," he said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
The studio now sanctions both the doctor's and the Conrad falcon.
As for Mr. Chekmayan's bird, Dr. Milan and the studio continue to dismiss it, even though the doctor initially offered $5,000 for the "curiosity." As for Mrs. Wilde, "She was an old woman," Dr. Milan said.
Now Mr. Chekmayan is left holding the bird, virtually worthless, a passage from Hammett stuck in his head. "If you lose a son it's possible to get another, and there's only one Maltese falcon." Perhaps. But it's the stuff that dreams are made of.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 13, 1997, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on June 29 with an article about Ara Chekmayan, who owns a statue of a falcon that may have been used in the film "The Maltese Falcon," misstated a plot detail in Dashiell Hammett's novel of the same name. In the novel, the falcon was found in a Paris shop in 1911, not 1931.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ara Chekmayan (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) spent thousands of hours and as many dollars to prove that his falcon played opposite Bogart.
 
Chart: "BOGART'S CATCH: Falcon Lore"
The Legend of the Maltese Falcon (According to Dashiell Hammett's, "The Maltese Falcon, Vintage Books)
 
* The Order of the Knights of Rhodes persuades Charles V of Spain to give it Malta, Gozo, and Tripoli. Each year, it was to pay one falcon in tribute.
 
* Instead of a live bird, the extremely wealthy Order creates "a glorious golden falcon encrusted from head to foot with the finest jewels."
 
* A bucaneer steals the falcon and takes it to Algiers, where it remains for 100 years before being stolen.
 
* The bird bounces around. At some point it is enameled to hide its true nature.
 
* In 1931, a collector founds it in an obscure shop in Paris. He is murdered.
 
* The bird comes into the the possession of a Russian general.
 
* One Mr. Casper Gutman, a.k.a. The Fat Man, hires stooges to steal it.
 
* It comes into the possession of Sam Spade, a San Francisco detective. Mr. Spade sells the bird to Mr. Gutman for a promise millions.
 
* The black bird turns out to be a lead fake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MALTESE FALCON, THE (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (67%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

COMPANY: WARNER BROTHERS INC PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: WARNER BROTHERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (67%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; MODELS AND REPLICAS; MEMORABILIA FILM (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); CELEBRITIES (75%); JEWELRY (73%); FILM GENRES (69%); THEME RESTAURANTS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (57%); 

PERSON: CHEKMAYAN, ARA; LEDUFF, CHARLIE; BOGART, HUMPHREY; CONRAD, WILLIAM (D1994); MILAN, GARY (DR) JOHN HUSTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1997



633 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
What Caliber Is Your Parachute? A Career Fable

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

THE AX
By Donald E. Westlake
273 pages. Mysterious Press/Warner Books. $23. 
 Here's a chilling little fable for the end of the millennium. Burke Devore, the 51-year-old protagonist of Donald E. Westlake's grim new thriller, "The Ax," has been downsized by Halcyon Mills, the paper company for which he has been product manager for 16 years.
Burke knows paper, even the kind you eat: as he explains, "a special kind of paper-source cardboard is used in many commercial ice creams, as a binder." He could "take over almost any managerial job within the paper industry, with only minimal training in a particular specialty."
But with downsizing general all over America, there are too few of those jobs for too many people. And Burke is really not quite the most qualified of candidates, not even for the job with the mill in Arcadia, N.Y., that is starting up a line in which Burke specializes. Ralph Fallon already holds that position. And if anything were to happen to Ralph, there would be others who would probably be hired ahead of Burke.
So Burke -- increasingly worried about the mortgage on his Connecticut home and the welfare of his wife, Marjorie, and their teen-age children, Billy and Betsy -- decides to take extreme measures. He writes an advertisement for a trade magazine announcing that B.D. Industrial Papers of Wildbury, Conn., is looking for a manufacturing line manager. As the resumes pour into the post office box Burke has given as the address of this phony company, he winnows them in search of his most qualified competition.
When he has narrowed the candidates down to six, he packs a Luger pistol he has found among his father's World War II souvenirs and sets out in his Plymouth Voyager to visit the home of the first one, Herbert Coleman Everly. When Everly comes out to get his mail, Burke aims the Luger at him and pulls the trigger. "The Luger jumps in the window space and the left lens of his glasses shatters and his left eye becomes a mineshaft, running deep into the center of the earth."
This leaves five competitors to go. Then Burke will kill Ralph Fallon, and the Arcadia job will be his.
You find this hard to believe? So did I at first. So does Burke himself, a basically decent man whose eyes begin to sting with tears of pity when a police detective investigating the murders shows Burke photographs of two of his victims.
But as Burke proceeds with his awful plan, he keeps tightening the screws of his logic. "The equation is hard and real and ruthless. We're running out of money, Marjorie and I and the kids, and we're running out of time. I have to be employed, that's all. I'm no self-starter, I'm not going to invent a new widget, I'm not going to found my own paper mill on a shoestring. I need a job."
And as he turns the screws, they bite deeper and deeper into the framework of these times. It all began with automation, Burke reflects. Automation attacked blue-collar workers, but because they were unionized "the pain of the transition was somewhat eased."
But now "the child of automation," the computer, was attacking middle management, the white-collar workers, the supervisors, "and none of us are unionized." Burke continues: "This is a transition we're in now, where middle management will shrink like a slug when you pour salt on it, but middle management won't completely disappear. There will just be fewer jobs, that's all, far fewer jobs." And Burke will have one of them.
With such irrefutable reasoning, Burke gradually seduces the reader, and you find yourself almost rooting for him as he works his way along "the learning curve" of murder. Besides, his bleak philosophy actually proves constructive, in a perverse sort of way. When his son, Billy, is arrested for robbing a computer store, Burke uses his new-found cynicism to get the boy out of trouble and thereby wins back the affection of his wife, who had been threatening to leave him because of his growing remoteness since becoming unemployed.
Will Burke succeed at his gruesome project, or will the bloody mayhem he's committing eventually catch up with him? To answer this question is, of course, what ultimately keeps you devouring Mr. Westlake's taut prose. And in the process you can't help being infected by the biting anger of a book whose deeper message really transcends its story.
As Burke muses when approaching his final crisis, "Today, our moral code is based on the idea that the end justifies the means." He continues: "The end of what I'm doing, the purpose, the goal, is good, clearly good. I want to take care of my family; I want to be a productive part of society; I want to put my skills to use; I want to work and pay my own way and not be a burden to the taxpayers. The means to that end has been difficult, but I've kept my eye on the goal, the purpose. The end justifies the means. Like the C.E.O.'s, I have nothing to feel sorry for."
Jonathan Swift would have been delighted with Burke Devore's modest proposal. And readers of "The Ax" will be darkly entertained by the way he goes about, uh, executing it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald E. Westlake (Arturo Patten/Mysterious Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AX, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); PAPER CONTAINER MFG (76%); LITERATURE (73%); CHILDREN (71%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (71%); MURDER (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; WESTLAKE, DONALD E MICHAEL MCMAHON (61%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



634 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Let It Be;
Ira Magaziner Argues for Minimal Internet Regulation

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
The wild gray mane is tamed. The manic 20-hour workdays are behind him. The health care debacle of President Clinton's first term seems all but forgotten.
But Ira C. Magaziner is still thinking big. Really big. The man behind the intricate architecture of the doomed effort to reorganize health care has spent the last 15 months studying the Internet, or, as he more grandly styles it, the Global Information Infrastructure. 
 And the man who produced a plan for health care management so complex as to be a byword in a town infatuated with complexity, has a new sort of answer for how to cope with vexing problems posed by the Internet, from international copyright protections to the overabundance of digitized smut.
What to do? The answer, offered in a White House report due for release this week: "Not much."
Mr. Magaziner believes the Internet community should be allowed to flourish free of most Government interference. Industry self-regulation would take the place of the Federal nanny, he says.
Is this the same Ira Magaziner who conceived the devilishly complex, 1,342-page scheme to remodel the entire American medical system? The same Ira Magaziner who tried to transform down-at-the-heels Brockton, Mass., into a workers' paradise? The same Ira Magaziner who as a radical student leader pressed Brown University to drop nearly all of its curriculum requirements?
"It is absolutely fascinating that Magaziner has ended up being the great champion of Internet freedom, given his history on health care," said Jeffrey Eisenach, president of the conservative Progress and Freedom Foundation in Washington. "This is a man-bites-dog story of epic proportions."
Communications industry officials who participated in the Magaziner review expressed equal surprise about Mr. Magaziner's transformation and they praised him for approaching the subject with an open mind.
Tom Evslin, who runs AT&T's on-line enterprise, said that he was impressed by the rigor of Mr. Magaziner's study of the electronic world.
"Clearly he had steeped himself in this industry and was a force within the Administration for this de minimis regulatory approach," Mr. Evslin said. "He came down in favor of letting industry solve the industry's problems. The whole effort was built on a coherent intellectual framework."
Last week, the Supreme Court came to much the same conclusion as Mr. Magaziner about the Internet as a free-wheeling forum for global speech and commerce in striking down the Communications Decency Act. The court ruled that the 1996 law to regulate indecent material on the Internet violated the Constitution's free-speech protections and threatened to choke off the potential of the information revolution.
Mr. Magaziner has an explanation for his seeming change of heart from statist central planner to laissez-faire capitalist. Mr. Magaziner has an explanation for just about everything.
But it takes some explaining.
"I view myself as a pragmatist, a problem solver," Mr. Magaziner, 49, said in an interview in his imposing corner office in the Old Executive Office Building next to the White House. "Health care is a very different industry than telecommunications. If you believe, as I do, that access to affordable health care is a right, then you're setting up the notion that the Government is guaranteeing something to people, which it should."
As Ross Perot used to say, stay with me here. Mr. Magaziner has given this subject a lot of study and he wants to make sure his approach is understood.
"You can't have a pure market in health care. Markets are the most efficient allocation of goods and services, but there is not an even buyer-seller relationship between a patient and a doctor," said Mr. Magaziner, who made a small fortune as a management consultant analyzing complex systems, from the city management of Providence, R.I., to the economy of Sweden.
"There has to be prepayment; you can't get seriously ill and then start shopping around for treatment," he continued. "And remember, the Government is already financing close to 50 percent of health care in this country. All that makes the solution to the health care dilemma very different from this."
The Internet, by contrast, is still in its infancy, not an established business like medicine. It has grown up in a decentralized fashion with worldwide choices and very few barriers to entry.
The relationship between buyer and seller -- the consumer at his personal computer and the company doing business over the Internet -- is essentially equal, Mr. Magaziner said.
"It is as close to 'friction free,' to use Bill Gates's term, as one can get," he added.
All of this argues for a hands-off approach by Government, Mr. Magaziner concluded after immersing himself in the culture of cyberspace for more than a year.
As he had in formulating his health care plan, Mr. Magaziner called on representatives of Government and industry, research centers and interest groups, to formulate his new policy. The position paper of his task force, called "A Framework for Global Electronic Commerce," is now in its 16th draft. It will be the basis for a new Administration policy to be announced by President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore at a public event now scheduled for July 1.
Mr. Magaziner's philosophy is spelled out on page 3. He writes that business conducted over the Internet is growing rapidly, but could be throttled by excessive Government intervention.
"For this potential to be realized fully," the draft report states, "governments must adopt a nonregulatory, market-oriented approach to electronic commerce, one that facilitates the emergence of a transparent and predictable legal environment to support global business and commerce. Official decision makers must respect the unique nature of the medium and recognize that widespread competition and increased consumer choice should be the defining features of the new digital marketplace."
Stripped of Mr. Magaziner's bureaucratese: Let a thousand Web sites bloom.
The study group concluded that Government involvement would be necessary in a number of areas -- negotiating international agreements on tariffs and taxation, for example, or protecting intellectual property from electronic piracy. Official oversight may be needed to protect against fraud and the exploitation of children as well, the group concluded.
The task force also accepted law enforcement's insistence on retaining some access to encrypted data, the one area where the computer industry is almost unanimous in opposition to the policy.
One participant, while criticizing the encryption policy, praised Mr. Magaziner for conducting a robust debate and listening to industry.
"He seemed very open and curious," said Solveig Bernstein, a telecommunications analyst at the libertarian Cato Institute. "I must say that Cato was certainly very much opposed to some of the ideas he came up with in the context of health care reform. In speaking to Ira, I felt he was sincerely trying to do the right thing and trying to learn about market solutions. That's unusual in someone with a regulatory bent."
This, too, represents something of a rehabilitation of Mr. Magaziner's image. As director of Mr. Clinton's health care task force, Mr. Magaziner endured as much criticism for the secrecy of the process as for the complexity of the product.
Much of the work of the health-care task force was conducted behind closed doors. Mr. Magaziner even tried for a time to keep the names of the members of the health care study group secret. He was sued by one health care advocacy organization, which contended that Mr. Magaziner had lied in a sworn statement about the composition of the White House task force he directed.
A court later found that the allegation was unfounded.
The Internet inquiry, by contrast, has included nearly every group with an interest in the subject and its hearings have been held in public. Drafts of its report have circulated on the Internet since December and hundreds of people have commented on it.
Mr. Magaziner has an explanation for this change, too.
He said that he had advocated an open process for the health care study but was overruled by senior White House aides, who believed that opening the hearings to the press and to interest groups would have brought intense pressure on the participants and slowed down the process. The group was under orders from President Clinton to produce a comprehensive plan in 100 days to redeem a 1992 campaign promise.
"The process was flawed and we ended up with a bill that was more regulatory than we wanted," Mr. Magaziner said with a surprising note of humility. "I blame myself. I could have put my foot down."
The Internet project gave him an opportunity to start at the beginning and take as long as he needed to complete his research, rather than being driven by artificial deadlines, he said.
Musing further on the differences between the highly structured world of health care and the free-wheeling cyberuniverse, Mr. Magaziner said that he tried to find a solution that would fit the reality of the industry.
"If there's ever an arena that should be market driven, this is it," Mr. Magaziner said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ira Magaziner, 1993; Ira Magaziner, 1997; Photo illustration by Lee Yarosh/The New York Times
 
OLD PHILOSOPHY
Health Care Reform
 
Centralized health care insurance-buying cooperatives.
 
New Government regulatory organizations.
 
Detailed 1,342-page plan to revamp the health care industry, including numerous mandates on providers and insurers.
 
Extensive legislative changes required to enact plan.
 
System of cost controls to insure affordable health care for all.
 
NEW PHILOSOPHY
Internet Policy
 
Decentralized global communications network.
 
Industry self-regulation with minimal Government oversight.
 
Broad 30-page framework document that prescribes a "market-oriented" approach to electronic commerce.
 
Little new legislation or regulation required by proposal.
 
In an electronic marketplace, competition will drive down prices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMMD (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS HOLDINGS INC (55%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (54%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (54%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PRIVACY, RIGHT OF INTERNET & WWW (91%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT (71%); CURRICULA (70%); COPYRIGHT LAW (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (69%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (67%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); LITIGATION (63%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (61%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); COPYRIGHT (54%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; MAGAZINER, IRA BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



635 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Basseterre Journal;
Death, Drugs and Courtroom Drama Trample on a Tranquil Caribbean Isle

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BASSETERRE, St. Kitts and Nevis, June 26

 BODY:
The scandal that toppled a Government and has led to a 27-year-old laborer's being tried three times on the same murder charge began in the summer of 1994.
More than a ton and a half of cocaine, on its way from Colombia to the United States, disappeared from a hiding place on an isolated beach here. Within days Vincent Morris, a son of the Deputy Prime Minister, had been killed, along with his girlfriend. Two of his brothers, Dave and Dean, were charged with illegal possession of guns and cocaine. Then Jude Matthew, the Superintendent of Police, who was in charge of the investigation into the Morris killing, was also slain, pumped full of bullets from a pistol as he sat in his jeep in his driveway. 
 The laborer, David Lawrence, was eventually charged with killing Superintendent Matthew. But the Morris brothers were released, prompting charges of favoritism that led to a prison riot. Troops from the Eastern Caribbean Regional Security System had to be sent to this normally tranquil island nation of 40,000 people, the smallest in the Western Hemisphere, 250 miles southeast of Puerto Rico.
During Mr. Lawrence's first trial, there were reports of threats being made and bribes being offered to jurors. The trial ended with a hung jury, as did his second, in December 1996. Mr. Lawrence's third trial, which began late last month in a sweltering courtroom here in the capital, offered more of the same. Testimony had barely begun when the police arrested six people and charged them with jury tampering, and the judge took the highly unusual step of ordering that the jury of eight women and one man be sequestered.
Then, on June 20, the trial ended with the jury once again announcing it was unable to reach a verdict.
The rest of the Caribbean has been watching the continuing drama in horrified fascination. It has also drawn the attention of the United States, which is struggling to contain the increased flow of drugs through the Eastern Caribbean into Puerto Rico and sees the twin island federation as perhaps the most vulnerable link in the drug interdiction chain.
"Of all the places in the English-speaking Caribbean, St. Kitts came closest to devolution into a narco-state, and is still under a great deal of pressure," an American official in the region said.
"This Government is doing its best," he continued. "But they have limited resources, and the drug traffickers have insinuated themselves into the legitimate economy through ownership of hotels, beverage franchises and car rental firms, so even if the Government is willing to work with you, there is a question of how much ability and freedom they have to do so."
For the Government now in power, much is at stake. Running on a platform of law and order, the Labor Party won an election in 1995 called three years early as a result of the scandal over the missing cocaine and the violence it generated. It has since stepped up cooperation with the United States and brought in a former Scotland Yard official to be interim chief of the demoralized police force.
"This case is important for transparency," Prime Minister Denzil L. Douglas said in an interview before the end of the third trial. "Of course this is a matter for the jury, but the right signal needs to be sent to criminals, to the local and international community and to the police that this Government will do everything to insure that justice is sought when one of its own is killed in the line of duty."
One name that has emerged in both the jury tampering and drug smuggling cases is that of Charles Miller, an influential local businessman. He is wanted in the United States on cocaine trafficking charges stemming from the 1994 shipment and was one of those arrested last month on the jury tampering charges. He is said by law enforcement officials here to have threatened Mr. Matthew, the police superintendent, the day before his death.
In an interview, Mr. Miller denied any involvement in Mr. Matthew's death and dismissed both the American drug trafficking indictment and the jury tampering charges here as "part of a political plot." He described himself as an aggressive but honest entrepreneur who imports soft drinks and frozen chicken and vegetables and wants merely to be a public benefactor.
"That kid never worked for me. I just gave him shelter when his own mother threw him out," he said, referring to Mr. Lawrence. "The problem is that I am too black, too young and too successful for the local elite."
Mr. Miller, 37, acknowledged that he was aware of the 1994 drug shipment and that he had even discussed the disappearance of the drugs, which he said was the fault of the Morris family, with "a bunch of guys who spoke English with a heavy Spanish accent." But he says his role was that of a peacemaker, not the leader of a conspiracy to ship the drugs to the United States.
"The Colombians had a serious problem: they were looking for a 1,500-kilo shipment of cocaine that had gone missing, and someone told them to talk to me," he said. "The only crime I am guilty of is telling the son of the Deputy Prime Minister to give back that cocaine and get it off the island so that peace could reign in our land."
Little more than a year ago Mr. Miller and three confederates were arrested here, with the United States quickly requesting their extradition to face drug charges in Miami. One man charged with Mr. Miller, Clifford Henry, has since been found guilty in Miami and sentenced to life in prison, but the extradition of Mr. Miller was foiled when a magistrate here refused to allow tapes of intercepted telephone conversations to be used as evidence.
"We were surprised by that outcome, because we were convinced by the Americans that they had enough information, enough evidence, with regard to the charges that were being laid," Mr. Douglas said. "We felt for a while that, well, everything had been lost," but the decision is now under judicial review.
The Prime Minister would not say if his Government would seek to try Mr. Lawrence a fourth time. But an American official who is watching the case said the stakes on the little island are larger than ever.
"If you lose a case like this, what's the message?" he asked. "Basically, that the drug folks are immune and can control the judicial system. They already feel they can act with a great deal of impunity, and if this case is lost, it will obviously have an impact on morale and the ability to go after these guys."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Children and teachers marched in Basseterre as part of an effort to encourage the young people of St. Kitts to grow up healthy, educated and drug-free. Meanwhile, the island is the center of a drug and murder scandal. (Larry Rohter/The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Basseterre, St. Kitts and Nevis: A ton and a half of cocaine disappeared on a beach near Basseterre.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); 

CITY: BASSETERRE, SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (91%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST KITTS AND NEVIS; CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%); BASSETERRE, SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (91%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COCAINE JURY TRIALS (90%); MURDER (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); COUPS (90%); COCAINE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); RIOTS (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); DRUG INTERDICTION (72%); ARRESTS (72%); VERDICTS (71%); MISTRIAL (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); PRISONS (68%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; LAWRENCE, DAVID LARRY DAVID (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



636 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Mir Astronauts Now Facing Uncharted Territory

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, June 29

 BODY:
Vasily Tsibliyev, the commander of the Mir space station, has had his brushes with danger. The veteran Russian Air Force pilot, 43, has made five space walks and spent long periods in space. He had endured a dangerous fire, which filled Mir with smoke and splattered chucks of molten metal around the space station.
But the commander, who carries a plastic rabbit from his daughter as a good luck charm, has his worries about his new assignment: repairing the stricken Mir, which was severely damaged last week when a supply vehicle crashed into it. 
 "I have never done this kind of work," he bluntly warned officials at Russia's ground control center. "Without training, it will not be possible to do this job."
By all accounts, restoring Mir to a functioning space station is a tricky venture into uncharted territory. Not only has the crew never trained for the mission, but they will also use special equipment that is only now being built.
The job will also require unusual dexterity, including maneuvering through a narrow portal to the damaged module while wearing a bulky space suit.
To choreograph the intricate maneuvers, earth-based Russian astronauts will experiment on an underwater mockup at Star City, the astronaut training center outside Moscow. Their results will be transmitted to Mir so the crew can practice before putting them to the test. If the Mir crew fails, it may even be necessary to abandon ship.
Michael Foale, the American member of the team of three astronauts in it, will be waiting in the Soyuz spacecraft docked alongside while the repairs are attempted in case the crew has to make a quick getaway and blast off to earth.
Life on Mir has never been glamorous. Mr. Foale has likened it to camping out in a dirty, old car. Others have not been so kind. Launched by the Soviet Union in 1986, Mir was originally intended to stay in space for only five years. After 11 years, it has had more than its share of problems.
In February, an oxygen canister caught fire, filling the station with smoke. In March, oxygen generators failed. In April, the cooling system began leaking antifreeze.
But Russia has powerful political and economic incentives to keep Mir in operation. The space station is not only a symbol of Russia's prowess in space, but is also a source of income for its fiscally strapped space agency. The United States is paying the Russians $470 million to train astronauts on Mir as part of a program to develop a new international space station.
NASA officials insist that the training and scientific experiments make the Mir missions worthwhile. But that assumes that the major problem on Mir caused by the collision last week -- the lack of adequate power to carry out scientific experiments -- can be remedied.
The crisis erupted on Wednesday when an unmanned Progress supply craft crunched into the 140-ton Mir while Mr. Tsibliyev was practicing a docking maneuver. The collision punctured Spektr, one of the station's seven modules and the module that housed medical experiments.
"I heard the big thump and a thud," Mr. Foale later recounted. "Almost immediately, we heard a hiss and felt pressure falling."
The crew rushed to seal off the damaged module, disconnecting cables that carry power from Spektr's three undamaged solar arrays to the rest of the station and closing the hatch.
"Since that exciting moment, we've been dealing with all the problems that resulted from that," Mr. Foale said. The main problem has been a power shortfall, as Spektr's solar arrays accounted for much of Mir's energy supply.
As the crew shut down air conditioning and other units to conserve energy, the space station grew hotter, humid and dark. Mir had trouble maintaining its orientation in orbit when the computer that fired the station's jets lost power. So the crew fired the rockets on the Soyuz to stabilize their position.
By today, life was getting back to normal -- or as normal as things can be on the aging Mir.
By turning the space station, the crew was able to point the solar arrays more directly at the sun, and recharge the station's batteries. The temperature and humidity dropped, and the crew was able to turn on the system that removes carbon dioxide from Mir's atmosphere.
Ground controllers also sent a signal activating Mir's gyroscopes to improve control of the space station. Some power was even used to run a greenhouse, an experiment to see how seeds grow in space.
Even so, Mir has only 50 to 60 percent of its power supply, which is not enough for most of the scientific experiments NASA and the Russians have planned, a NASA official said. The future of the space station depends on fixing the power problem.
The trick is to reconnect the cables from the Spektr module to the rest of Mir without letting the air escape from the space station. That was a problem that bedeviled the Russian and NASA scientists as they struggled to develop a plan.
The final plan is to launch a new Progress supply vessel about July 5 from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakstan. The Progress will transport equipment including a new laptop computer for Mr. Foale, lights and bolt cutters.
It will also carry a special plate to which the electric cables in Spektr can be connected. That piece of equipment was to be completed today at a factory near Moscow and flown to Baikonur on Monday.
Another key piece of equipment is already on board Mir. It is a cone-shaped device used for docking, Viktor D. Blagov, the deputy Mir mission controller, said in an interview.
The idea is for Russian astronauts to conduct an internal space walk. After donning their space suits, they will enter the section of Mir next to Spektr. The rest of the space station will be sealed off.
The Russian astronauts will then remove the hatch to Spektr, and at least one of them will maneuver through the tight portal and enter Spektr.
The astronauts will take the cables in Spektr and run them through the center of the cone-like device, which is open at the top. The cone will be inserted in the portal between Spektr and the rest of Mir.
The special plate will be used to seal the top of the cone. Cables from Spektr will be attached to one side of the plate. Cables to carry power to the rest of Mir will be attached to the other, Mr. Blagov said. That will enable the power to pass through while maintaining an airtight seal.
The section next to Spektr will then be repressurized. Once it is determined that air is not leaking, the section will be opened up to the rest of the space station.
During the difficult repairs, Mr. Foale will be zippered up in his space suit and waiting in the Soyuz space craft. That way the entire crew can make a quick evacuation if an emergency develops.
Today, the crew appeared relaxed in a Russian television broadcast. Commander Tsibliyev said his wife was not unduly worried. His flight engineer, Aleksandr Lazutkin, praised the training he has received. Mr. Foale said he would be prepared to go up in space again.
But the crew seemed less sure of itself when it was first informed about the repair mission during an off-camera session.
After the crew was informed of the plan, reporters in the Russian command center heard one of the Russian astronauts mutter, "It's very problematic."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Aleksandr Lazutkin, Michael Foale and Vasily Tsibliyev yesterday, in their first television link since the crash. (Reuters)(pg. A1)
 
Diagram: "THE MISSION: Repairing the Station"
About July 5, a Progress cargo ship will be launched from Kazakstan carrying equipment needed to repair the Mir space station. The Spektr module was punctured Wednesday and a solar panel damaged during a collision with an unmanned cargo ship. To seal off the depressurized module, the crew had to disconnect cables that carry power from Spektr's four solar panels to the rest of the station, three of which were operational. Here is how Russian space officials plan the operation.
 
*1 Progress will dock with Mir several days after the launch. Repairs should begin between July 10 and 14.
 
*2 The two Russian astronauts will enter the node in their spacesuits and seal it off from the rest of the station.
 
*3 They will open the hatch to Spektr. At least one of them will maneuver through the tight portal.
 
*4 They will install in the portal a specially made plate to which electric cables can be connected. This will allow them to reconnect power while keeping Spektr sealed off.
 
*5 They will repressurize the node, making sure that air is not escaping.
 
*6 The American astronaut will wait in the Soyuz capsule wearing his space suit. That way the entire crew can quickly escape in the capsule in an emergency.
(pg. A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: MIR AS (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; MIR (SPACE STATION); INTERNATIONAL SPACE COOPERATION AND VENTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SPACE STATIONS SPACE EXPLORATION (91%); SPACE STATIONS (91%); AIR FORCES (90%); SPACECRAFT (89%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); FIRES (77%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (71%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (70%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; TSIBLIYEV, VASILY

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



637 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: The SBC Deal Shelved, What Tack For AT&T?

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
For the AT&T Corporation, the big question is: Now what?
On Friday, the nation's largest telephone company suspended negotiations to merge with SBC Communications -- talks that AT&T never formally acknowledged, though they consumed the company's top executives and drew fierce fire from Washington regulators. 
 Now, AT&T must regroup and fashion a strategy to compete on its own in a deregulated market. That could be even harder than engineering a $50 billion merger. With every other phone company gunning for its long-distance franchise, AT&T has no choice but to compete for local-service customers. But by entering into talks with SBC, analysts and industry executives said, AT&T acknowledged that it cannot do it alone.
"This was a Hail Mary pass," Daniel Reingold, a Merrill Lynch analyst, said. "AT&T was attempting to declare peace on one front so it could defend all its other fronts."
Whatever the intrinsic merits of a deal, the company's peculiar handling of the negotiations may have tarnished both its credibility and morale. AT&T never confirmed the existence of talks, though its chairman, Robert E. Allen, defended the concept of a merger between AT&T and a regional Bell company in the face of withering criticism from regulators. SBC was noticeably silent on the subject.
Mr. Allen may also have undermined his president and designated heir, John R. Walter, by making it clear that SBC's chairman, Edward E. Whitacre, could become the chief executive of a combined company, according to executives who were involved in the talks.
That Mr. Allen was ready to tolerate these negative repercussions is evidence to many experts of just how desperately he wanted a deal.
"AT&T would have been willing to restructure this deal any which way to make it happen because they know that it would be such a formidable alliance," said Gene Kimmelman, co-director of the Washington office of Consumers Union.
A spokeswoman for AT&T declined to comment yesterday on the company's talks with SBC.
Still, the financial logic of a merger is so compelling that many experts suspect that AT&T may yet try to resuscitate talks with the San Antonio-based company -- which offers local phone service to more than 30 million home and business customers in seven states west of the Mississippi, including Texas and California.
"My suspicion is that the talks could reignite," said a former high-level AT&T executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "If it is a really good idea, AT&T will keep pursuing it."
Failing that, AT&T could try to forge a deal with another regional Bell company, like BellSouth, or with GTE.
Mr. Reingold calculated that a merger of AT&T and SBC would have added $16 billion to the value of the companies -- roughly a 15 percent increase in the market value of each partner. Of the $16 billion, he said $7 billion would come from less price competition in both local and long-distance service in SBC's territory. AT&T and SBC would no longer try to undercut each other's rates.
The remaining $9 billion would derive from a combination of cost-cutting, new business opportunities and the value for each partner in not losing market share to the other, Mr. Reingold said.
For AT&T, the economics of going it alone look unappealing. The company would have to wage a 50-state war for local phone customers against existing monopolies who would sooner or later be allowed into AT&T's core long-distance market. Analysts estimated that it would cost the company tens of billions of dollars to get into local service.
And after such expense, it is not clear that AT&T would emerge the victor. Mr. Reingold contends that the Bells -- with their hard-to-duplicate local networks and direct connections to customers -- would be able to retain customers more effectively than AT&T.
That is not to say that AT&T lacks choices. The company has one of the most robust balance sheets in the telephone industry. It could establish a presence in the local phone market overnight by acquiring a competitive provider of local service, such as the Teleport Communications Group.
AT&T could also develop new technologies, like its recently announced fixed-wireless service, to insinuate itself into the market. And the power of its brand name cannot be overestimated.
To capitalize on these strengths, though, people familiar with AT&T said Mr. Allen must return to a single-minded focus on the phone business. An employee who declined to be identified said that the reports about an SBC merger and Mr. Walter's future had been the stuff of incessant hallway gossip.
"SBC is a distraction," the employee said. "What will save AT&T is a real strategy."
AT&T may not regain its focus unless Mr. Allen settles the questions about Mr. Walter. Mr. Allen recently promoted another AT&T executive, John D. Zeglis, to vice chairman -- sowing doubts about Mr. Walter's future. Executives familiar with AT&T said Mr. Zeglis had been elevated partly because he had been offered the chairmanship of a utility company in the Midwest.
Mr. Zeglis may not be Mr. Walter's only rival for the top job. George M. C. Fisher, the chairman of the Eastman Kodak Company, had been AT&T's first choice as AT&T's president, people with knowledge of the company said. While Mr. Fisher turned down the offer, he recently joined AT&T's board.
Further complicating matters is that AT&T is pushing through a two-year, $2.6 billion cost-cutting campaign. So the same employees who must redouble their efforts to lead AT&T into a brave new world are worrying about being laid off or reassigned.
If AT&T's future seems murky, its minuet with SBC has muddied the picture for the rest of the telephone industry, too. Several industry experts said that longtime AT&T competitors like MCI Communications and Sprint would have to reassess their strategies -- even if the merger of AT&T and a Bell company remained only a rumor.
Indeed, MCI's chairman, Bert C. Roberts Jr., said in a speech last week that if AT&T and SBC were to merge, his company "will be taking names" from the Baby Bells that would like to tie up with MCI.
Some experts likened the merger talks to the opening of a Pandora's box, something that could forever change the competitive landscape. "The fact that this deal fell apart does not change the fundamental dynamic of massive consolidation in telecommunications rather than head-to-head competition," Mr. Kimmelman of Consumers Union said.
While officials at the Federal Communications Commission were gratified by news of the deal's collapse, they said the industry could still veer off the road to competition.
"It won't help if we prevent the reassembly of Ma Bell, only to allow similar deals in the future," said Blair Levin, chief of staff to the F.C.C.'s chairman, Reed E. Hundt.
Mr. Hundt was the Government's most outspoken critic of the talks, declaring in a speech that a merger of AT&T and a Bell company would never withstand antitrust scrutiny. But Mr. Hundt was not around to savor his role in scuttling what would have been the largest corporate merger in history. Instead, he was traveling in India over the weekend.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Time to regroup: AT&T's chairman, Robert E. Allen. (Associated Press)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: T (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (98%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP; SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC; BELLSOUTH CORP; GTE CORP AT&T INC (98%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC; BELLSOUTH CORP; GTE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); DEREGULATION (90%); MERGERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK JOHN R WALTER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



638 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON TAX PLAN BACKS G.O.P. IDEAS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
President Clinton will announce on Monday a revised tax-cutting proposal that his aides describe as an effort to give middle-class taxpayers somewhat deeper reductions than those passed overwhelmingly by the Senate on Friday, but one that accepts a number of the main concepts pressed by Republicans.
In a presentation at the White House, Mr. Clinton is expected to endorse, for the first time, tax proposals that would create education savings accounts that are similar to individual retirement accounts. 
 He is also expected to make proposals that edge toward a broader cut in capital gains taxes than he has previously endorsed, said officials who have been briefed on the broad outlines of Mr. Clinton's plan. But he will not agree -- at least for now -- on the House and Senate proposals to reduce those taxes to 20 percent, from 28 percent, the officials said.
Aides to Mr. Clinton declined today to provide details of his proposals, hoping that he will regain the public relations advantage for his tax plans by making the proposals at the start of a weeklong Congressional recess. But they said his broad effort would be toward pushing more of the $85 billion in net tax cuts down to the bottom 60 percent of taxpayers.
Under tax legislation passed on Thursday by the House, roughly 18 percent of the $85 billion in tax cuts would go to the 1 percent of Americans with the highest family incomes, according to Treasury Department estimates.
The Senate bill, passed on Friday, would channel about 13 percent of the total tax cuts to the same group. Mr. Clinton's proposal, the officials said, would cut that 13 percent by more than half, though White House officials acknowledge that the figure is subject to change as the negotiations proceed next month.
Nonetheless, the concessions the White House has made so far -- including virtual agreement to a sharp reduction in capital gains and estate taxes -- make it clear that the final bill will reverse many of the effects of the major tax increase for the top 1.2 percent of taxpayers that Mr. Clinton pushed through in 1993.
Mr. Clinton's political strategists had guessed that the richest Americans would not battle higher income tax rates if one result was enough deficit reduction to send the country and the stock market into a prolonged economic expansion that disproportionately benefited the rich.
The bet paid off, though Mr. Clinton was roundly criticized last year by fellow Democrats who had voted for those increases after he suggested that he thought he had raised taxes on the rich too much.
Mr. Clinton's aides now argue that the tax increase cut the deficit sharply and helped pave the way for the Dow Jones Industrial Average to rise to 7,800, more than double the level in 1993. Whether he can rightly take credit for that increase, a practical result is that many wealthy Americans are now sitting on huge capital gains -- which they are eager to liquidate at lower tax rates.
Although Mr. Clinton will not endorse a 20 percent capital gains tax rate on Monday, the body language given off by his aides in recent weeks suggests that he will ultimately agree to that figure. But they insist that he will veto any bill that also allows investors to subtract the effects of inflation on those capital gains. Such indexing is included in the House version of the tax bill, but not in the Senate version.
Mr. Clinton's proposal will open a round of three-dimensional chess on Capitol Hill that promises to dominate politics here for the next month. Starting a week from now, House and Senate negotiators will begin trying to work out differences between their respective tax bills. But because House and Senate leaders want to avoid a veto, the White House will play a major role in the negotiations.
Mr. Clinton's new proposal is described by aides as an effort to build on some provisions of those bills and limit the effects of others. The Senate tax bill, for example, creates classes of individual retirement accounts that are available to all taxpayers. Mr. Clinton's proposals will put income caps on those I.R.A.'s because Treasury officials argued that the Senate version would simply encourage rich Americans to move existing savings into tax-sheltered accounts.
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said in an interview today: "It's a question of how you look at the goals of tax relief. You could look at tax cuts as an effort to provide middle-class tax relief, or you could look at them as an effort to promote growth in the economy. What I have come to think in recent weeks is that those two criteria would lead you to roughly the same outcome."
Put another way, Mr. Rubin is arguing that the existing bills in Congress provide too many tax benefits to people who are rich enough to save anyway. The only way to encourage long-term savings for economic stimulus is to reorient those incentives to families making under $50,000 to $60,000 a year, the bottom three-quarters of the nation's taxpayers. Those are the families deciding between saving and spending.
Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and the principal author of the House tax bill, reiterated today in a letter to Mr. Clinton that the Administration was using figures that "artificially inflate people's incomes" to make it appear that too large a portion of the cuts were going to the rich. Mr. Archer argued that "71 percent of our tax relief goes to those who make between $20,000 and $75,000 a year."
Those statistical arguments stem from the fact that Mr. Archer's committee and the Administration are using very different measures of total income to make their case. The Treasury bases its estimates on a measure called family economic income, first put forward in the Reagan Administration. That measure takes into account not only salary and interest earned on savings but also pension benefits and other forms of remuneration that most families cannot immediately spend.
The Republicans are using more traditional measures of income. But in defining tax cuts, they are using statistics to make it appear that the wealthy do not benefit disproportionately. For example, they measure the effects of tax cuts only over the next five years, while many of the biggest gains for the wealthy would come after 2002.
Mr. Clinton is clearly hoping that at the end of the negotiations, he will be able to divert more of the tax cuts to families seeking to make use of education tax credits for attending community colleges. The Administration is also concerned that the education savings accounts that emerged from the House and Senate bills give too much aid to families that can save long in advance of college and too little aid to those who cannot afford such savings.
The White House also expects a long battle over the tobacco tax. The Senate plan would raise $15 billion over five years by increasing the tax on cigarettes by 20 cents a pack, to 44 cents, starting on Oct. 1. About $8 billion of those revenues would be committed to providing medical coverage for uninsured children. The House plan has no such provision.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (50%); DOW JONES & CO INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (94%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TUITION FEES (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (71%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



639 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Gore Warms Up to Iowa as He Warms Up for 2000

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: DES MOINES, June 29

 BODY:
When Senator Al Gore ran in the Democratic Presidential primaries in 1988, he never found his footing in this crucial early battleground. So he dismantled his flagging campaign here and condemned the early caucuses in "the small state of Iowa" as "madness."
But this weekend, Vice President Al Gore left no doubt of his political awakening. "I love Iowa," he assured voters. Recalling the movie "Field of Dreams," Mr. Gore told the audience in the rural community of Prairie City: "Is this heaven? To which Kevin Costner replies, 'No, it's Iowa.' " And to fit in, Mr. Gore changed his outfit at least three times in one day -- from standard blue suit and red tie to casual shirt and khakis and back again -- depending on the audience. 
 Despite his protestations about its being "way too early," Mr. Gore is running for President. And he is running hard. As Mr. Gore's 16-vehicle motorcade snaked around this state on Saturday, the route looked like a road map of Democratic constituencies vital to combatants in the caucuses here in 2000: unions, farmers, environmentalists and Democratic organizers. (He traded his White House-issue limousine for a Chevrolet Suburban sport vehicle.)
This was Mr. Gore's first trip to Iowa since last year's election, and his aggressive -- and early -- courtship underscores how, unlike in 1988, the Vice President views this state as crucial to his Presidential ambitions. Mr. Gore's advisers also said they were preparing for a relentless competition with Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader, who is already mobilizing his operation in the state, and who won the caucuses here in 1988. (Mr. Gore placed dead last, with less than 1 percent.)
It did not matter that Mr. Gore did not overtly announce his run for President: his carefully orchestrated appearances here, replete with American flags and picturesque backdrops for the cameras, had more the feel and content of partisan campaign events than White House courtesy visits. Sounding less buttoned-down than when he is in the capital, Mr. Gore liberally addressed audiences as "y'all." And he referred repeatedly to the fruits of his Administration's economic policies helping bring about Iowa's "astonishing 3.3 percent unemployment rate."
At stop after stop, Mr. Gore buttered up one of his traveling companions, Representative Leonard L. Boswell of Iowa, telling audiences that the freshman Democrat was "fantastic" and "wonderful" -- and off to one of the swiftest starts of any congressman in history. It was not that Mr. Gore was rewarding an old friend. That is the problem: Mr. Boswell is a longtime ally of Mr. Gephardt, and Mr. Gore wants to win him over.
(Mr. Boswell insisted that it was too soon to take sides. Reminded of his prediction that Mr. Gephardt could take the state, Mr. Boswell replied, "He's won here before.")
Not easily discouraged, Mr. Gore plunged into campaign overdrive on Saturday, careful not to skip any crucial constituent groups.
In Des Moines, he asserted at the state convention of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees that the Administration would avoid budget cuts that unduly fell on workers. He promised to protect the 40-hour workweek and pledged to "fight for more exports from Iowa." For good measure, Mr. Gore reminded the audience that his father was the first labor secretary in the state of Tennessee.
In Johnston, at the headquarters of Pioneer Hi-Bred, an agriculture research company, Mr. Gore trudged through corn and soybean fields. He scored points with farmers by mentioning that as Vice President he broke a tie in the Senate to preserve ethanol subsidies. As if he has the time to commute regularly from the capital to tend to his farm, Mr. Gore said, "Tipper and I live on a farm in Tennessee when we are not in Washington."
In Prairie City, at the dedication of the Neal Smith Prairie Learning Center at a wildlife refuge, Mr. Gore looked on with a smile as Mr. Smith, a former congressman, proclaimed him "a world leader in environmental affairs." Mr. Gore, who was essentially raised in Washington, but spent long summer stretches at his family's farm, tried to connect with the locals by saying that "Prairie City is a lot like my hometown of Carthage, Tenn."
And in Indianola, at a Democratic field training conference at Simpson College, Mr. Gore delivered a stump speech worthy of a candidate in the final throes of a campaign. After thanking the audience for re-electing him and Mr. Clinton, saying it was "really important," the Vice President implored the workers to look toward 1998 and beyond: "Fight and organize and register people to vote!"
Mr. Gore was looser on the stump than his critics give him credit for. He was not defensive when asked at the taping of a public television program about the uproar over his fund-raising activities in the 1996 campaign. He was especially comfortable at the two events that were stocked with his loyalists: the union conference at the beginning of the day and the Democratic meeting at the end. He larded his speeches with his self-effacing humor, as in his recitation of the historic list of unknowns who were also two-term Vice Presidents. (He did stumble when he praised the Democratic workers, saying "you really are the foot soldiers," before changing his mind in the next breath and saying, "you are the generals.")
For all his efforts, Mr. Gore was not able to deliver as fiery a speech as did Senator Paul Wellstone, Democrat of Minnesota, who is toying with running for President and who addressed the union convention this morning, a day after the Vice President's speech. Though Mr. Gore had been cheered loudly, the remarks by Mr. Wellstone, an unrepentant liberal, were received more enthusiastically; his speech was interrupted more than once by foot-stomping standing ovations.
But Mr. Gore got off one good quip when he recalled to the union audience his fleeting campaign here in 1988: "It's no secret that I ran for President in 1988, although it seemed like one at the time."
Not this time around. Mr. Gore's worst kept secret is his Presidential campaign in Iowa.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore trudged through farm fields yesterday in Johnston, Iowa, in one of a series of appearances in the state. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (96%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (96%); IOWA, USA (96%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (94%); LEONARD L BOSWELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



640 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Conglomerate Abandons Cuban Phone Venture

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 29

 BODY:
Hamstrung by American economic sanctions and its own financial problems, Grupo Domos, the Mexican conglomerate that has been the largest foreign investor in Cuba, has relinquished its stake in the Cuban telephone company and withdrawn from the island.
For the last three years, the telecommunications company based in Monterrey has been minority partner in a $750 million joint venture with the Cuban Government in that country's telephone monopoly. But Cuba's phone system once was owned by American interests, and that became an issue last year after the United States Congress approved a law intensifying the 35-year-old American economic embargo against Cuba. 
 The legislation, enacted after Cuba shot down a pair of American-registered civilian light planes over international waters, requires foreign companies to report to the United States any property they have in Cuba that was confiscated from American owners by the Communist Government of Fidel Castro. Those companies can then be sued for compensation in American courts.
Last summer, Domos was one of three companies identified by the Clinton Administration as violating the measure, known popularly as the Helms-Burton law, after its two main sponsors. As a result, top Domos executives, shareholders and members of their families have been denied visas to visit or study in the United States.
Cuban exile groups here, as well as some American Government officials, are celebrating the withdrawal of Domos and citing it as proof that Helms-Burton is an effective tool in weakening Mr. Castro and the Cuban economy. But business analysts maintain that Domos made the decision for reasons that are far more diverse and complicated.
"This should not be seen as a commentary on the validity of the investment," said John S. Kavulich, president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council, a New York-based group that monitors the Cuban economy. "Grupo Domos's problems stem in large part from the fact they weren't a company with substantial assets going into the deal."
Officials at Cuba's Ministry of Foreign Investment and Economic Cooperation did not respond to inquiries requesting reaction to the company's move, first reported Friday in The Miami Herald. Executives at Domos also did not return telephone calls seeking comment.
But both Mexico and Canada have severely criticized Helms-Burton, describing the law as a restraint on trade and investment that violates the North American Free Trade Agreement and other international treaties. The Clinton Administration's European allies have also attacked the measure and threatened to file a formal complaint against Washington with the World Trade Organization.
The Domos deal was announced amid great pomp at a ceremony in Havana in 1994 in the presence of both Mr. Castro and the Mexican President at the time, Carlos Salinas de Gortari. The agreement was then seen as opening the way to future Mexican involvement in refurbishing and expanding Cuba's cement, glass, mining, oil and tourism industries.
Later that year, however, the Mexican peso collapsed, plunging the investment into jeopardy. A weak peso made it increasingly expensive and difficult for Domos to obtain the dollars it needed to fulfill its obligations under the agreement, and it missed several deadlines, according to Cuban Government officials.
The passage of the Helms-Burton law last year only added to the company's problems. "They were having trouble getting financing even before Helms-Burton came along, but potential lenders became even more gun shy after that went into effect," said a European banker who follows Cuban economic policy closely.
Worried that plans to modernize the moribund Cuban telephone system, which had been expropriated from the ITT Corporation of New York in 1960, were in danger, the Cuban Government began looking for other foreign investors. The Italian telecommunications company Stet S.p.A. eventually came in as a partner, and has indicated that it intends to remain in Cuba despite the Helms-Burton law, Cuban officials and industry executives said.
American officials and industry executives said ITT, which has $130 million in outstanding Cuban claims, and Stet have been talking intermittently for several months about an agreement to compensate the American company for its confiscated holdings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GRUPO DOMOS; ITT CORP ITT CORP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRUPO DOMOS; ITT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES; CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS LEGISLATION (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



641 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Nationsbank Acquisition Of Montgomery Seen Today
Nationsbank is expected to announce an agreement today to buy Montgomery Securities for about $1.2 billion. 
 Montgomery becomes the latest of the fast-growing investment banks that specialize in health care and high technology to sell to large commercial banks. [Page D2.]
 
Suicide in Japanese Bank Scandal
A former chairman of Dai-Ichi Kangyo, Japan's fourth-largest bank, killed himself after being questioned by prosecutors. It was the latest development in a scandal involving charges of ties to gangsters that is engulfing the bank and Nomura Securities. [D2.]
 
Clinton Tax-Cut Plan
President Clinton is expected to endorse a tax-cut proposal described by his aides as giving middle-class taxpayers somewhat deeper reductions than those in a Senate bill. [A1.]
 
What, Mad Worry? Perhaps It Should
As the mainstream becomes more like Mad magazine than even Mad might have liked, a new generation of the "usual gang of idiots" scrambles for a fresh identity, offering racier fare to its adolescent audience. [D10.]
 
Leaving Cuba
Its own financial problems and American economic sanctions force Grupo Domos, a Mexican conglomerate, to relinquish its stake in the Cuban telephone company and to withdraw from the island. [D2.]
 
J. P. Morgan Seen in Talks
J. P. Morgan is in talks to buy a stake in American Century Investments, people familiar with the negotiations say. [D12.]
 
A TV Entrepreneur's Vision
The growing number of TV stations owned by Paxson Communications carry primarily infomercials and religious programming, but the company's founder has a grander plan to sell time on his stations to entertainment and news programmers seeking to reach a wider range of viewers. Broadcasting. [D10.]

Delivering Many Papers
The New Century Network, an Internet venture set up by a number of newspaper companies, is starting a service called Newsworks. It is a broad report on the news of each day, compiled and assembled by Newsworks editors from papers across the country, to which there will be links. [D8.]
 
Not Fade Away
Eastman Kodak and other companies are wading into a lucrative, largely untapped market in the tons of photographic memorabilia gathering dust in shoe boxes. It is no coincidence that old photos are getting all this new attention. As baby boomers age, more and more people are restoring pictures, aided by new technology, and sending them to family and friends. [D6.]
 
Digital 'Watermark'
Playboy magazine, which has been besieged by on-line piracy of many of its photos, will place a digital "watermark" on its images to help it track unauthorized copies. [D11.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 7,687.72 down 108.79
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.74% up 0.08
The Dollar -- 114.55 yen down 0.26
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows personal income and new-home sales, since Nov. 1996.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: EK (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS (54%); ION MEDIA NETWORKS INC (54%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SCANDALS (76%); TAX RELIEF (75%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (72%); SUICIDE (72%); INFOMERCIALS (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); ONLINE PIRACY (62%); INTERNET CRIME (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



642 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: A Partly Alien Place Joins China Today

SERIES: WAITING FOR CHINA

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Monday, June 30

 BODY:
There is in all of China, from the Gobi Desert to Manchuria, from the Forbidden City to the cloud-wreathed peaks of Guilin, no place like Hong Kong.
It is a place with a press as wildly free as the markets that help fuel its growth, a place accustomed to its own mind, a place where people insist on controlling their own future. 
 And at midnight tonight, it is this British colony and its 6.3 million people, half of them refugees from the waves of political and economic chaos that marked the first three decades of Communist rule in China, that will be returned to the embrace of the motherland.
Deng Xiaoping, the Chinese leader who died this year, appeared to recognize Hong Kong's distinctiveness, and in 1984 he said as much to Margaret Thatcher, who was then Britain's Prime Minister.
"We had to consider the actual situation of Hong Kong, China and Great Britain," Deng said the day that both countries agreed on Hong Kong's reversion to Chinese rule. "The resolution that all three parties would accept was 'one country, two systems,' which would allow Hong Kong to retain its capitalism, its status as a free port and its position as a financial center."
"There was," Deng intoned, "no other possible solution."
The formula, enshrined almost liturgically in the speeches of Beijing officials and of the man who will be Hong Kong's first post-colonial leader, the shipping magnate Tung Chee-hwa, is uttered to reassure Hong Kongers that things will not change too much, that the future is no cause for concern.
But words alone will not bridge the chasm between Beijing and Hong Kong, for many people here have lived in China. If, great numbers of people here believe, China so routinely lies to its own citizens about so much, why, they ask, would Beijing tell the truth to Hong Kongers?
"Let me tell you this," said a security guard at a housing project who gave only his surname, Ko, because he said he was afraid of retribution. "Hong Kong will become a Chinese colony. Hong Kong will become worse than when it was a British colony. The Communists can't be trusted."
A very different tune echoes from the aeries of Hong Kong's business community. "There's no lack of confidence," insisted Nellie Fong, a partner in the American accounting firm Arthur Andersen and a member of the incoming government's cabinet. "What Hong Kong people regain on July 1 is our own identity."
These voices, whether suffused with anxiety or enthusiasm, emanate from a society and an economy among the most varied and complex in Asia. From the larger economic indicators alone, Hong Kong is a startling success story. Its per capita gross domestic product of $23,500 has long since outpaced Britain's and is 40 times as large as China's.
Hong Kong's roads are home to more Rolls-Royces than any other city's, and one of every six residents carries a cellular phone. Just last month, the white colonial house owned by Eric Hotung, a descendant of a prominent 19th-century family, sold for just over $100 million, the most expensive house on earth.
More containers shuttle through Hong Kong's shipping terminals than any other port in the world. The greatest foreign investment in China is Hong Kong's, some 58 percent of all foreign money invested in the mainland.
Buttressing this dynamic economy is a political system that has become open and democratic, a boisterous press and a civil service whose incorruptibility is the envy of Asia's. At least 38 Chinese-language newspapers are published here daily, along with 12 English-language papers. And none is subject to overt censorship.
No less integral to Hong Kong's success, at least in the view of Hong Kong's last Governor, Christopher Patten, has been the transformation of the territory's politics from a secretive, colonialist authoritarianism to a fully elected legislature that acts as a decisive check on executive excess.
Despite the contention of many business leaders that Hong Kongers care only about money and not politics, recent polls show a very different picture. The percentage of people donating to political parties is rising, and 4 out of 10 people surveyed said they had put their names on political signature campaigns, the highest rate of such political participation in the world, according to the Hong Kong Transition Project, a multi-university study.
Yet the tensions between the complex dynamism of Hong Kong and the rigid intolerance of Beijing's leadership toward its own people will remain the fault line along which Hong Kong's future will be charted.
The elected legislature is already gone, to be replaced on Tuesday by an appointed body. And the outspokenness of Hong Kong's press is now more muted in the face of Chinese rule.
"Editors and reporters are being more careful," said a senior editor at one of Hong Kong's most respected papers, Ming Pao. "They don't say so, but you can see it."
Today, President Jiang Zemin and Prime Minister Li Peng will come here, the first Communist Chinese leaders to set foot in Hong Kong.
On the outside, the city that will greet them is an electric company's dream. Along the waterfront of Victoria Harbor, the glass-sheathed office towers have been draped in swirls of neon and popcorn strings of colored lights. Chinese slogans like "Celebrate the Return to the Motherland" glow from atop banks, and waterfalls of light beads stream from roof tops.
But on the inside, there is a mix of emotion, elation and indifference.
"I don't have any particular feelings about this," said Yeung Hung Wing, 42, a taxi driver who was eating his breakfast in a small park with a group of other drivers. "The Chinese Government says that Hong Kong will stay the same for 50 years. I think that'll be the case. As long as things get better here, it doesn't really matter who's in charge."
More enthusiastic, though, was Macey Ho, who was devouring a McDonald's hamburger on a viewing terrace atop Victoria Peak. "I'm currently very optimistic," she said, "but as for the future, there's no denying that the Chinese Government will be controlling Hong Kong. The only thing I worry about is that the Chinese Government may restrict our freedom."
In part, the vigorous mix of sentiment about the return to Chinese sovereignty reflects a broader division within Hong Kong over self-identity. Only a quarter of Hong Kong residents call themselves Chinese, according to a poll by the Hong Kong Transition Project. Instead, 44 percent describe themselves simply as Hong Kong people, with 24 percent more calling themselves Hong Kong Chinese.
Margaret Ng Ngoi-yee, a respected barrister and a member of Hong Kong's defunct legislature, tried to put the transition to Chinese rule in a Hong Kong context.
"If you look at the big picture of how Hong Kong has been developing," she argued, "it's been a process of Hong Kong's coming into its own and self-governance, although it did not have sovereignty. What is happening now is that we are suddenly checked in this development and the incoming sovereign would like us to go back several steps."
"Hong Kong," she continued, "is separate both from Britain and China. We have a government that is a Hong Kong government, not British, not Chinese. Once Britain is removed and we are reunited with China, that barrier is removed. Whether we can retain our identity -- I have a lot of doubts about it."
Tonight at midnight, that test of identity commences as Hong Kong enters an uncharted future. It is the end of one history and the beginning of another, a history now embedded in the fate of China itself.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the start of a sit-in yesterday in Hong Kong opposing the territory's return to China, democracy advocates raised a banner featuring the Goddess of Democracy, a symbol of the Tiananmen Square protest of 1989. (Reuters)(pg. A6); Thousands jammed Tiananmen Square in Beijing last night, before it was shut for the official celebration of Hong Kong's return to China. Page A6. (Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 
Chart: "Hong Kong at a Glance" shows population, per capita GDP, life expectancy and infant mortality statistics for China, Hong Kong, Britain and the U.S.
 
"What's changing in the handover"
 
(Photos: Old flag, New flag)
 
-- Government titles, uniforms and stationery lose references to the British Crown.
-- Some public holidays: Queen's Birthday is out, Chinese National Day is in.
-- National anthem: "God Save the Queen"yields to China's"March of the Volunteers."
 
. . . What's not
 
-- Official languages are still the Cantonese dialect of Chinese and English.
-- The currency remains the Hong Kong dollar, though the image of the Queen no longer appears on bills and coins.
-- Street names stay the same, and it is still Victoria Harbor.
-- American tourists will still be able to visit for up to 30 days without a visa.
-- Motorists will continue to drive on the left side of the road, not on the right as in China.
 
Hong Kong Superlatives
 
-- World's biggest public infra 2/3structure project, which involves railroads, bridges, highways, a tunnel and land reclamation, a new airport, a new town. Estimated cost: $21 billion.
-- World's busiest container port.
-- World's most expensive house -- it just sold for more than $100 million.
-- Highest per capita cognac consumption -- 2.2 bottles a year.
-- Most Rolls-Royces per capita (1,300 total).
-- Most cellular phones and pagers per capita.
 
Safer than New York
 
-- In 1996, Hong Kong, which has 6.3 million people, had 77 homicides and 3,852 robberies. New York, with 7.3 million people, had 986 homicides and 49,703 robberies.
 
(Sources: Population Reference Bureau Inc.; 1997 World Development Indicators, World Bank; 1996 World Factbook, Central Intelligence Agency; Federal Bureau of Investigation, Unified Crime Reports; Hong Kong Government; Hong Kong Tourist Association)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (92%); GOBI DESERT (92%); GUANGXI, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: ARTHUR ANDERSEN SPA (51%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN SPA (51%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN SRL (51%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); HONG KONG TOURIST ASSOCIATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; GREAT BRITAIN; CHINA; CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (92%); GOBI DESERT (92%); GUANGXI, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BRITISH MONARCHS (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (72%); REFUGEES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A MARGARET THATCHER (56%); DENG XIAOPING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



643 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3218 words

HEADLINE: THE WELFARE EVOLUTION: A special report.;
U.S. Welfare System Dies As State Programs Emerge

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
The nation's 62-year-old welfare system, condemned last year by Federal law, will formally die on Tuesday, and a season of state legislative debate has brought new clarity to the decentralized system rising in its place.
If the emerging programs share a unifying theme, it can be summarized in a word: work. States are demanding that recipients find it faster, keep it longer and perform it as a condition of aid. Most states regard even a low-paying, dead-end job as preferable to the education and training programs they offered in the past. And recipients who break the rules are facing penalties of unprecedented severity. 
 But the hard edge also has a softer side. Operating on the assumption that work requires support, many states are investing in work-related services. Near-record increases for child care head the list, but states are also spending more on transportation, job placement and programs that let working recipients keep more of their benefits even while earning paychecks.
The result is a system evolving from a national safety net into a series of state trampolines: they are better equipped to lift the needy into the job market, but much less certain to catch them during the inevitable slips and falls. Wide-ranging in quality, some state programs can already boast of impressive achievements, while others are still being cobbled together in an atmosphere of conflict and doubt.
In at least one preliminary way, the interesting development is what has not taken place. Critics of a state-driven system have worried about a "race to the bottom," in which strapped state governments cut eligibility and benefits to drive the poor away. Although that remains a concern when the economy falters, it has not happened yet.
"Some people predicted it'd be a disaster, obviously," said Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services. "But I see governors taking the extra money they've been given and using at least some of it to provide resources to help people work. Over all, I think there are more resources going into programs, not less."
In part the new investments may indicate that legislatures are quicker to spend money on needy people when they work. But there is also an old-fashioned fiscal lubricant involved: Federal dollars.
Though the new system has often been described as a cut, it will provide states with about $2 billion more this year than they otherwise would have had, according to a rough estimate by the House Ways and Means Committee. That is because Washington now sends the states fixed payments based on the welfare population of earlier years, even though the rolls are plummeting.
The Government is also giving states an additional $600 million this year for child care. Added together, the new Federal money represents an increase of about 16 percent, or an additional $650 for every family in the program.
The program, which used to be called Aid to Families with Dependent Children, serves about four million adults, most of them single mothers, and more than seven million children. As of Tuesday, it takes on a new name to stress a new ethos of time limits and work rules: Temporary Assistance for Needy Families.
The combination of freedom, money and new expectations has produced a moment of dizzying change. Wisconsin is essentially abolishing cash aid, substituting a giant work program that will stretch from the sprawling ghettos of Milwaukee to the Minnesota border. Oregon is putting its hopes in intensified casework; Texas in private contractors. Illinois has put up $100 million of state money to offer child care to all low-income workers, whether they have been on welfare or not. New Jersey has created a $3.7 million transportation fund, to get poor people to far-away jobs.
And there are more modest innovations. An Episcopal diocese in Warren County, Tenn., has placed $10,000 in a revolving loan fund, to help a few welfare families buy used cars. A social worker in Manassas Park, Va., is collecting donated clothes, to help clients look better in job interviews.
But along with new opportunities, the poor face new perils. Bureaucratic errors in Milwaukee have withheld benefits from thousands of needy people, even though they complied with the work program as instructed. Mississippi punishes those who break the rules by withholding food stamps as well as cash, placing families at risk of complete destitution.
In many places, the passage of the Federal legislation last August did less to inaugurate a new era than to accelerate changes that had already begun. That is because 46 states were already running experimental programs under Federal waivers. From Oregon to Virginia, from Michigan to Mississippi the move toward an employment-focused system was well under way.
But the states with the three largest welfare populations -- California, New York and Texas -- have mostly been absent from the trend. By themselves, California and New York contain nearly a third of the country's recipients. In these two states, restrictive proposals from Republican governors are being contested by Democratic legislators. Until those disputes end, much of the welfare canvas remains unpainted.
And everywhere it is a work in progress.
 
New Work Rules
States Sharing A Work Philosophy
Work -- it is an order to recipients, a philosophy for administrators and a mandate under Federal law. But the ways in which it is an actual program vary widely from state to state. Consider the differing emphases in Wisconsin and Michigan, whose Republican governors are typically considered leaders of stern reform.
In Michigan, Governor John Engler has invested in caseworkers to remove the "barriers" to work, like an inability to patch together child care or transportation. But he has been reluctant to create community service jobs for those who do not find work on their own. In Wisconsin, Governor Tommy G. Thompson has created thousands of workfare positions. But he has been quicker to assume that welfare recipients will find a way to hold them, and slower to emphasize the kind of home visits and casework that Michigan employs.
What virtually all states now share is a new philosophy, summarized in the phrase, "work-first." Though Federal law requires recipients to work within two years, few states are letting them wait that long. Education and training come later, if at all.
"It's no more, 'What am I going to be when I grow up?' " said Larry Temple, deputy director of the Mississippi Department of Human Services, which is paying private companies to place recipients in jobs. "If we've got a job that someone with a 10th-grade education can fill, and you've got a 10th-grade education -- you're working."
To place people quickly, almost every welfare office runs some sort of job-search program, in which welfare recipients write resumes, practice interviews and get leads on possible openings. Almost two dozen states also have "diversion" programs, requiring needy people to put in as many as 20 or 30 job applications before they can receive benefits.
The tougher question is what comes next? What to do for those recipients -- with little education or experience, and in some cases, bad attitudes and work habits -- whom employers continuously turn away?
Some states will now pay businesses to hire them, converting welfare and food stamps into a subsidy for an employer. Oregon and Mississippi have pioneered the effort, but without great success. Most businesses, there and elsewhere, seem less interested in the temporary payments than in finding reliable help. In Tulsa, Okla., the Chamber of Commerce has gotten more directly involved in polishing work skills. It has helped create an intermediary corporation to give recipients entry-level work, like assembling fishing tackle for a local manufacturer. Those who perform well get recommended to area employers.
So far, only a few places seem willing to take the next step: creating large numbers of community service jobs. Though such efforts can be expensive, they may be what is needed to make work universally available, especially in areas where the economy sags.
Efforts are under way in Massachusetts and New York City, but the leader is Wisconsin. Beginning Sept. 1, virtually all of the state's 42,000 welfare families will have to work 30 hours a week to receive benefits. Though the emphasis is on placing them in private jobs, the state has vowed to create community service positions for those left behind.
That caps a remarkable reversal from the late 1980's, when investments in education and training were in vogue. Studies found that those programs had little effect while others that emphasized immediate job placement worked better. But some advocates worry that the pendulum has swung too far in a world of diminishing returns for unskilled workers. "You have lots of women in the welfare system who've had one crummy job after another," said Sharon Parks of the Michigan League for Human Services. "A lot of them are not going to be in a position to support themselves and their families."
 
New Services
Removing the Barriers That Prevented Work
For many women on welfare, finding a job is the easy part. Keeping it comes harder. Reliable child care and transportation are part of the solution, and many states are making new efforts to increase the supply of both, though formidable challenges remain.
"States are doing more than I expected," said Helen Blank, a child-care expert at the Children's Defense Fund. "The question is will it continue?"
A survey by the American Public Welfare Association found that 11 states had expanded the eligibility for child-care programs and 20 are putting in more state money than required. "The heat is on, people are watching," said Elaine Ryan, the organization's lobbyist. "It's becoming a kind of political imperative."
Though most have expanded child care for welfare families, a few have gone substantially farther. Wisconsin, Illinois and Rhode Island are pledging subsidized child care on a sliding scale to any low-income working family that needs it.
Perhaps no state has expanded its aid as suddenly as Illinois, which has the nation's fourth-largest welfare population. A Republican governor, Jim Edgar, proposed adding $70 million in state money to the Federal pot, and a legislature split between a Republican-controlled Senate and a Democratic House added $30 million more.
Illinois said it can now offer a child-care subsidy to any family earning less than about $22,000 a year. "It doesn't matter if you're on welfare, used to be on welfare, almost on welfare," said Michele Piel, who runs the system for the Illinois Department of Public Aid. "We tried to wipe the slate clean, and envision a system as it ought to be."
But Ms. Piel warns that the increased financing has solved only part of the problem. Shift workers, mothers with infants, and parents in rural parts of the state -- all may still find child care in short supply. Those shortages could grow even more intense as the new system puts more mothers to work. And the quality of care remains a concern.
States are also expanding transportation programs, but here the problem may be even more vexing. Many states offer public transit vouchers, but new jobs are often beyond the reach of bus and rail lines. Cars are often unaffordable, and van pools can be difficult to coordinate.
"I'm surprised at how much attention states are paying to the issue," said Mark Alan Hughes, a researcher at Public/Private Ventures in Philadelphia and a leading expert on the transportation problems of the poor. "But the next step's the harder part: How do you solve it?"
While welcoming this early expansion of services, skeptics worry that it will prove ephemeral. Even in these flush times, most states are not reinvesting their full Federal windfall, using part of it instead to offset other state spending. When the economy falters, the skeptics worry, the new services will disappear. "The time when a race to the bottom will happen is when a recession hits," said Wendell Primus, a former Federal welfare official who resigned to protest the new law and who now works as an analyst at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington advocacy group.
 
New Penalties
Toothless Rules, Then Painful Ones
Those who fear that the new system will harm poor families have typically focused on time limits. But most families are still years away from exhausting their eligibility. Meanwhile, about 20,000 have already lost their benefits under a different circumstance, for failing to comply with the work rules.
"Sanctions are a much bigger issue than time limits -- much, much bigger," said LaDonna Pavetti of the Urban Institute, a Washington research group.
States have now made their penalties tougher than ever. In the past, welfare recipients who failed to report for work or training typically lost a third of their cash grant -- about $125 a month in an average state. But as their income went down, their food stamps rose, compensating for two-thirds of the loss.
If that system was essentially toothless, the new one takes a painful bite. A recent survey by the General Accounting Office, an arm of Congress, found that 33 states now strip noncompliant families of all cash assistance. Some, like Michigan and Wisconsin, allow recipients to immediately re-enroll and cooperate. Iowa makes recipients wait six months before they can reapply.
In addition, all states bar food stamps from rising, and Mississippi goes even further -- eliminating all cash and food stamps to those who do not comply with the work program. Of the 7,200 families in an experimental program there, as many as 19 percent temporarily lost all their aid. "We're talking about people who are refusing to go to work to feed their children," said Mr. Temple, the Mississippi official.
But in a time of sweeping bureaucratic change, mistakes are easily made. The G.A.O. report found that 44 percent of the penalties imposed in the first five months of Milwaukee's program were later overturned when officials discovered they had made errors. "That's outrageous," Ms. Shalala said. "The minimum we should expect is that we're not making mistakes with people's lives."
Avoiding mistakes may be harder than it seems. After starting a strict work program a few years ago, Utah officials began a study of about 100 families punished for failing to cooperate. In about half of those cases, the officials discovered factors that the social workers had not understood.
One woman who lost her benefits was already enrolled in a training program. Another had a phobia about leaving her home. "We found we were sanctioning people we shouldn't be sanctioning." said Bill Biggs, the Utah official who supervised the program before his recent retirement.
What happens to poor families that suddenly lose aid? No city has cut off as many families as Milwaukee, where the penalized seem to fall into several rough groups. Some have ignored the work rules because they had other options -- a secret job, a boyfriend to support them, a child receiving a disability check. They have been able to replace, or even surpass, their lost welfare income. Others, befogged by drugs or depression, have crowded the shelters where the numbers of women and children are at record highs. Though small as a percentage of the declining caseloads there, these newly homeless families may well number in the hundreds.
The one quantitative study available points toward a similar pattern, of punished families falling into two broad categories. Mathematica Policy Research, a Princeton, N.J., consulting firm, recently tracked down 137 Iowa families that had lost their benefits.
Of them, 40 percent saw their incomes rise, by an average of $496 a month. But 49 percent lost an average of $384 a month, in incomes already low enough to put children at risk. "It's really hard to know what's the right thing to do," Ms. Pavetti said.
 
Time Limits
Many States Set Tighter Rules
As of Tuesday, states must start limiting most recipients to no more than five years of benefits in a lifetime. But a survey by the National Governors Association found at least 20 states imposing shorter limits on all or part of their caseload.
Texas has the shortest limit, of 12 months for those deemed most able to work. Tennessee has a limit of 18 consecutive months, and in Connecticut the limit is 21 months. Ten states, from Massachusetts to Oregon, have two-year limits, but the details vary widely.
Some states promise extensions to those trying to work. Others let recipients back on the rolls after an intervening period. So far, Michigan is the only state pledging to ignore the limits altogether. While states can use Federal money to provide extensions to 20 percent of the caseload, Michigan officials have said they will help any recipient who complies with the work rules.
Some states have considered letting individual counties set time limits of their own. Republicans in Colorado pushed such a plan, but they were thwarted by the state's Democratic Governor, Roy Romer. Critics of such local autonomy worry that localities will abuse it to drive poor families away. In Colorado, skeptics issued a warning: Welfare reform is not a bus ticket to Denver.
In at least one important, but little-noticed way, welfare policy is now at odds with itself. While time limits are in, so are state plans that let recipients keep benefits while they work -- extending their stay on the rolls and further eating into the clock. "It may be that working families become some of the first casualties of time limits," said Mark Greenberg, a lawyer at the Center on Law and Social Policy who is critical of the limits.
As states succeed in winnowing their rolls, they may also find that those left behind have especially difficult problems - problems that a time limit alone will not solve. That has been the case in Utah, where the rolls have fallen by 35 percent over the last four years. "We weren't prepared for the group left behind," said Mr. Biggs, the former Utah official. "Over time they can move off the rolls, but it's a much more gradual process."
What percentage of the caseload will remain behind is anyone's guess. While the law exempts 20 percent, Mr. Primus has estimated that as many as half of the families on the rolls may hit a five-year limit. So far, limits have elapsed only in one experimental program, in Pensacola, Fla., where about 130 families have been dropped from the rolls. To the surprise of local officials, recipients there largely ignored the two-year limit, regarding the deadline as a long way off.
Among them was Theresa Sledge, 22, who has a 7-year-old son, a toddler, and another baby on the way. At first her social worker urged her to join a training program, pledging the necessary child care and transportation. Then, as the clock ran down, the worker urged Ms. Sledge to find a job. Failing to do either, Ms. Sledge now lives in a rickety trailer, feeding her children on food stamps and scrounging underwear and toilet paper from friends. "Hardship is not the word for it," she said. "They had told me it was going to happen, but it just didn't sink in."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As part of its plan to eliminate welfare, Illinois has pledged to subsidize child care for any family earning less than $22,000 a year. A group of 6-year-olds played on Friday in the learning center of the Christopher House day-care program in Chicago. (Lloyd DeGrane)(pg. B8)
 
Graph: "AT A GLANCE: The Welfare Rolls" shows number of recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children, from 1960 to 1996. (Source: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services)(pg. B8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; STATES (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LABOR; CHILD CARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILD CARE (88%); LEGISLATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997



644 of 644 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1997

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: On Schools, Court Upheld a Delicate Balance;
Freedom Lost

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I applaud your assessment that the Supreme Court's decision declaring the 1993 Religious Freedom Restoration Act unconstitutional leaves religious freedom at risk (editorial, June 27). 
 I agree that the Court should have taken this opportunity to bring back the stricter standard that was used before a 1990 ruling for reviewing laws that have an impact on religious freedom.
However, I do not agree that the Court's reasoning -- that Congress had exceeded its enforcement powers under the 14th Amendment -- was "defensible" and "not unreasonable."
When viewed together with the broad powers the Court has given Congress in the 20th century, the decision seems fundamentally flawed. For example, the Court has allowed Congress to expand its regulatory power over all aspects of the nation's economy through the commerce power.
This power can be intrusive in terms of its impact on both state sovereignty and individual liberty, but it was deemed necessary in the wake of the New Deal to allow the Government to take control of the nation's economy.
The Court's decision means that Congress can make laws through its power over commerce that burden religion but is now forbidden from trying to increase and protect religious freedom.
It is a sad day in a republic formed to protect individual liberty through limited government that the Government is allowed only to make encroachments on freedom and not to defend it.
 
ROBERT JACKMAN
Hamden, Conn., June 27, 1997
 
The writer is a recent graduate of Columbia Law School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; FREEDOM OF RELIGION; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION RELIGION (96%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); VERDICTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); LAWYERS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: JACKMAN, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997

 
