

401 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Add Retailers to the List of Those Who Never Saw Him Coming

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN; Colin Moynihan and Jeffrey E. Singer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In his three bolt-from-the-blue games with the Knicks, Jeremy Lin has proved too quick for opposing defenders, too quick for professional basketball's marketing machine, even too quick for New York's black market in counterfeit goods.
On Thursday, a savvy fan who wanted to be the first on his block sporting a Jeremy Lin jersey was, for the most part, boxed out. No official merchandise bearing Lin's name or number -- 17 -- was on sale at the shops in the lobby of Madison Square Garden or at any authorized retailers of Knicks merchandise. A search of the shops and sidewalk peddlers along Canal Street, often the place to go for imitation goods in Manhattan, proved fruitless. 
The city may be in the early stages of what has been called Linsanity, a mass hysteria especially prevalent among residents who share Lin's Asian heritage, like the chef David Chang. The owner of the Momofuku restaurants, he said the emergence of Lin as the Knicks' starting point guard in the past week was ''the most important event for Asian-Americans in sports history.'' Mr. Chang said that dressing like a superfan was not his style, but that even he might feel compelled to buy a jersey.
Not even a celebrity with the connections of a popular chef could have found one to buy on Thursday. On the eve of the Knicks' home matchup with Kobe Bryant and the Los Angeles Lakers, shopping therapy was not a treatment option.
At Gerry Cosby & Company, a store near the Garden that supplies the Knicks with their uniforms, the shelves were bereft of Lin gear.
Jim Root, the store's manager, said it could be two weeks before officially licensed T-shirts arrived. How long it would take to get authentic jerseys with Lin's name and number embroidered on them -- the kind that cost about $300 -- was anybody's guess, Mr. Root said.
He said Lin's burst into prominence had caught Adidas, the league's official provider of jerseys, flat-footed. The company could not have seen him coming, he said, because Lin was not even on the Knicks' roster a few weeks ago and he cracked the starting lineup only this week.
Modell's, the chain of sporting-good stores in the city and beyond, also had nothing to offer the Lin lover.
Nor did the National Basketball Association's official store on Fifth Avenue. A clerk there said ''a lot of people'' had asked for Lin jerseys.
On Thursday morning, the Knicks' online store started taking orders for $54.95 jerseys and $19.95 ''Linsanity'' T-shirts that would not be shipped before Feb. 20. But for those who were finding it impossible to wait that long to wear their feelings for Lin on their chests and backs, the Knicks' promotional staff was working Thursday afternoon on a cure.
In a cramped, windowless room in the Garden, a few employees arranged orange numerals and white letters on blank blue Knicks jerseys, then lowered hot presses onto them. And, voila: the only legal No. 17 Lin jerseys in the city, other than the ones the Knicks' player wears, were ready for sale.
Starting Friday morning, as many as 200 of them will be offered for $54 in the stores inside the arena, said Stacey Escudero, a spokeswoman for Madison Square Garden. She said Garden officials hoped that some of the T-shirts would arrive before the 8 p.m. tipoff.
For more than a week, that may be the only outlet to satisfy Lin's newfound fans, like Ben Chan, who lives and works in Chinatown. ''I'm looking all over for a No. 17 jersey,'' he said. ''I checked on eBay and found one for $150. That's way too much.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The quick rise of Jeremy Lin, left, led Madison Square Garden to begin fabricating copies of his jersey on Thursday to sell on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHY KMONICEK/ASSOCIATED PRESS, MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (77%); RESTAURANTS (75%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); COUNTERFEITING (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%); INTERNET RETAILING (70%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



402 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Poor Dropping Further Behind Rich in School

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Education was historically considered a great equalizer in American society, capable of lifting less advantaged children and improving their chances for success as adults. But a body of recently published scholarship suggests that the achievement gap between rich and poor children is widening, a development that threatens to dilute education's leveling effects.
It is a well-known fact that children from affluent families tend to do better in school. Yet the income divide has received far less attention from policy makers and government officials than gaps in student accomplishment by race.
Now, in analyses of long-term data published in recent months, researchers are finding that while the achievement gap between white and black students has narrowed significantly over the past few decades, the gap between rich and poor students has grown substantially during the same period. 
''We have moved from a society in the 1950s and 1960s, in which race was more consequential than family income, to one today in which family income appears more determinative of educational success than race,'' said Sean F. Reardon, a Stanford University sociologist. Professor Reardon is the author of a study that found that the gap in standardized test scores between affluent and low-income students had grown by about 40 percent since the 1960s, and is now double the testing gap between blacks and whites.
In another study, by researchers from the University of Michigan, the imbalance between rich and poor children in college completion -- the single most important predictor of success in the work force -- has grown by about 50 percent since the late 1980s.
The changes are tectonic, a result of social and economic processes unfolding over many decades. The data from most of these studies end in 2007 and 2008, before the recession's full impact was felt. Researchers said that based on experiences during past recessions, the recent downturn was likely to have aggravated the trend.
''With income declines more severe in the lower brackets, there's a good chance the recession may have widened the gap,'' Professor Reardon said. In the study he led, researchers analyzed 12 sets of standardized test scores starting in 1960 and ending in 2007. He compared children from families in the 90th percentile of income -- the equivalent of around $160,000 in 2008, when the study was conducted -- and children from the 10th percentile, $17,500 in 2008. By the end of that period, the achievement gap by income had grown by 40 percent, he said, while the gap between white and black students, regardless of income, had shrunk substantially.
Both studies were first published last fall in a book of research, ''Whither Opportunity?'' compiled by the Russell Sage Foundation, a research center for social sciences, and the Spencer Foundation, which focuses on education. Their conclusions, while familiar to a small core of social sciences scholars, are now catching the attention of a broader audience, in part because income inequality has been a central theme this election season.
The connection between income inequality among parents and the social mobility of their children has been a focus of President Obama as well as some of the Republican presidential candidates.
One reason for the growing gap in achievement, researchers say, could be that wealthy parents invest more time and money than ever before in their children (in weekend sports, ballet, music lessons, math tutors, and in overall involvement in their children's schools), while lower-income families, which are now more likely than ever to be headed by a single parent, are increasingly stretched for time and resources. This has been particularly true as more parents try to position their children for college, which has become ever more essential for success in today's economy.
A study by Sabino Kornrich, a researcher at the Center for Advanced Studies at the Juan March Institute in Madrid, and Frank F. Furstenberg, scheduled to appear in the journal Demography this year, found that in 1972, Americans at the upper end of the income spectrum were spending five times as much per child as low-income families. By 2007 that gap had grown to nine to one; spending by upper-income families more than doubled, while spending by low-income families grew by 20 percent.
''The pattern of privileged families today is intensive cultivation,'' said Dr. Furstenberg, a professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania.
The gap is also growing in college. The University of Michigan study, by Susan M. Dynarski and Martha J. Bailey, looked at two generations of students, those born from 1961 to 1964 and those born from 1979 to 1982. By 1989, about one-third of the high-income students in the first generation had finished college; by 2007, more than half of the second generation had done so. By contrast, only 9 percent of the low-income students in the second generation had completed college by 2007, up only slightly from a 5 percent college completion rate by the first generation in 1989.
James J. Heckman, an economist at the University of Chicago, argues that parenting matters as much as, if not more than, income in forming a child's cognitive ability and personality, particularly in the years before children start school.
''Early life conditions and how children are stimulated play a very important role,'' he said. ''The danger is we will revert back to the mindset of the war on poverty, when poverty was just a matter of income, and giving families more would improve the prospects of their children. If people conclude that, it's a mistake.''
Meredith Phillips, an associate professor of public policy and sociology at the University of California, Los Angeles, used survey data to show that affluent children spend 1,300 more hours than low-income children before age 6 in places other than their homes, their day care centers, or schools (anywhere from museums to shopping malls). By the time high-income children start school, they have spent about 400 hours more than poor children in literacy activities, she found.
Charles Murray, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute whose book, ''Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010,'' was published Jan. 31, described income inequality as ''more of a symptom than a cause.''
The growing gap between the better educated and the less educated, he argued, has formed a kind of cultural divide that has its roots in natural social forces, like the tendency of educated people to marry other educated people, as well as in the social policies of the 1960s, like welfare and other government programs, which he contended provided incentives for staying single.
''When the economy recovers, you'll still see all these problems persisting for reasons that have nothing to do with money and everything to do with culture,'' he said.
There are no easy answers, in part because the problem is so complex, said Douglas J. Besharov, a fellow at the Atlantic Council. Blaming the problem on the richest of the rich ignores an equally important driver, he said: two-earner household wealth, which has lifted the upper middle class ever further from less educated Americans, who tend to be single parents.
The problem is a puzzle, he said. ''No one has the slightest idea what will work. The cupboard is bare.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Educational Divide: The achievement gap between rich and poor children is double the gap between black and white children, according to a study by a Stanford University sociologist. (Source: Sean F. Reardon, Stanford University) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); TRENDS (77%); WRITERS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



403 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Markets Remain Cautious On Greek Developments

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks rose modestly for a third consecutive day on Thursday after Greece reached a deal to secure a financial bailout, but investors were cautious after weeks of gains.
Technology shares, led by Apple, gave a lift to the Nasdaq index and were the session's strongest sector. Concern that Greece would fail to follow through on promised austerity measures kept investors hesitant to raise stocks further.
The market's steady march higher also left investors reluctant to buy aggressively without a significant catalyst. More than 75 percent of S.& P. 500 stocks are trading above their 26-week moving average, according to Thomson Reuters data. The index has finished higher on six of the last seven trading days. 
''We've had a very strong run without a meaningful pullback, and a lot of people would feel like chumps for buying before we see some kind of dip,'' said Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at the ConvergEx Group in New York.
Leaders from major Greek parties agreed on reforms and austerity measures needed in exchange for a new bailout package to avoid a chaotic default.
''There's some relief that they've made it this far, since the negotiations could've gone meaningfully wrong, but this was largely priced in,'' Mr. Colas said. ''At the same time, there's still some concern that this deal isn't enough and we'll be back in this situation again later.''
Euro zone officials said the full package must be agreed upon by Greece and approved by the European Union, International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank by Wednesday, so legal paperwork can be completed in time to avoid a default that could destabilize the global financial system.
The Dow Jones industrial average was up 6.51 points, or 0.05 percent, at 12,890.46. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 1.99 points, or 0.15 percent, at 1,351.95. The Nasdaq composite index was up 11.37 points, or 0.39 percent, at 2,927.23.
Providing support to the market was a report showing jobless claims fell last week, underscoring improvement in the labor market. That followed Friday's report of a better-than-expected rise in the number of jobs created in January.
Apple's stock hit a record high. A brokerage firm, Canaccord Genuity, said its checks indicated strong iPhone 4S sales and increased its price target to $665. The Web site AllThingsD said Apple would introduce its latest iPad tablet version next month.
Shares of Apple surged 3.5 percent to $493.17, hitting a record of $496.75 earlier. The S.& P. information technology sector rose 1 percent as the day's best-performing group.
But the network equipment maker Cisco Systems limited gains by the tech sector as its forecast failed to impress investors. Shares fell 2.1 percent to $20.
PepsiCo fell 3.7 percent to $64.27 after it forecast lower-than-expected 2012 earnings and said it would cut thousands of jobs.
Groupon, the daily deal Web site, slumped 14 percent to $21.17. The company posted an unexpected loss in the first quarterly report since it went public.
Diamond Foods tumbled 37 percent to $23.13 after the company removed its top management and said it would restate results because of improper accounting of payments to walnut growers.
Expedia, the online travel company, fell 5 percent to $32.48 in extended trading after it reported lower quarterly profit. True Religion Apparel slumped 22 percent to $28.80 after its results.
In other company news, the networking service LinkedIn gained 8.2 percent to $82.70 after hours on fourth-quarter revenue that beat expectations.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 4/32, to 99 22/32, and the yield rose to 2.04 percent, from 1.98 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BAILOUTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EURO (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); APPROVALS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); TABLET COMPUTERS (60%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); JOB CREATION (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (85%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); CONVERGEX INC (69%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); CANACCORD GENUITY INC (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) GREECE (93%); EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



404 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Time Traveling With Old Friends

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
Like doting godparents to a cherished but difficult child, Stephen Sondheim fans have been waiting 30 years for ''Merrily We Roll Along'' to grow up. Staged on Broadway in 1981, when it ran for a mere 16 performances, this ambivalent collaboration between Mr. Sondheim and the book writer George Furth seemed, like many a problem child, to possess both glorious potential and a heartbreaking tendency to sabotage itself.
The ''Merrily'' that opened on Wednesday night -- inaugurating the new season of the Encores! series of American musicals in concert at City Center -- might be seen as the end product of years of finishing school, of three decades of revamped (and often rewritten) revivals. Ever since its watershed staging of ''Chicago'' in 1996, Encores! has acquired a reputation for turning former lame ducklings into high-flying swans. And so this latest production has been attended by an especially heady blend of optimism and anxiety. 
The cheers began with the first bars of the show's overture, the most infectious and conventionally stirring that Mr. Sondheim wrote, its shiny, brass-borne melodies gleaming with promises you hope will be fulfilled. Then the musical, a tale of three idealists in Manhattan told in reverse chronology, began its process of traveling backward in more ways than one. And by the end you felt that same old mixture of exhilaration and deflation that ''Merrily'' -- beautiful and damned ''Merrily'' -- always inspires.
This version is directed by James Lapine, a longtime collaborator of Mr. Sondheim (''Sunday in the Park With George,'' ''Into the Woods,'' ''Passion'') who has wrestled with ''Merrily'' before, in a popular 1985 production at La Jolla Playhouse in California. (He also oversaw ''Sondheim on Sondheim,'' the 2010 Broadway revue in celebration of its subject's 80th birthday.) He brings to this production an affectionate insider's yearning to make an old friend look good (I mean the show, not Mr. Sondheim), using all the latest mod cons of his trade.
Yet for the first time in my long and varied experience of ''Merrily,'' the show seemed not only a portrait of people trapped in time, but a work trapped in time as well. Though it features several well-drawn and vibrant performances, ''Merrily'' comes across here as oddly quaint and self-conscious. It has the air of something overexplaining -- and apologizing for -- its own flaws.
When theater fanatics sit down to dissect the problems of ''Merrily,'' it's usually its structure that is blamed first. Based on George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart's 1934 play about lost illusions, this musical held onto the central stunt of tracing its characters' fortunes from their jaded present to their idealistic past. It begins with a view of a 40-ish composer at the summit of his success (in 1976), then follows him and his two closest friends back to their first meeting, two decades earlier, when the world seemed new and unsullied.
In Harold Prince's original staging the ensemble was notable for its youth and lack of professional experience. Mr. Prince has said he envisioned the show as a sort of ''Babes in Arms''-like frolic for fresh-faced performers. But Mr. Sondheim, being Mr. Sondheim, streaked even the show's sunniest songs with chilling shadows of melancholy.
The general perception in 1981 was that a young cast couldn't do justice to the score's emotional complexity. Others -- including The New York Times's Frank Rich, who called the show ''a shambles'' -- felt the problems were more pervasive. ''All we get is fatuous attitudinizing about how ambition, success and money always lead to rack and ruin,'' Mr. Rich wrote.
That observation, alas, holds true. As the recent revival of ''Follies,'' a far better musical, reminded us, Mr. Sondheim's book writers have never been able to match the textured subtlety of his music, and the disparity is especially glaring in ''Merrily.'' A typical line: ''Is Frank the only person in the world who doesn't know you're in love with him?'' And: ''Did you want that kind of life so much that you went with her?''
That last question is asked of the rising musical-comedy composer Franklin Shepard (Colin Donnell) by his soon-to-be-ex-wife, Beth (Betsy Wolfe). Frank seems to inspire the kind of dialogue that went out of fashion with the tragedy-of-success movie glamour fests of the 1950s, like ''The Bad and the Beautiful.''
And though much is said about his wit and charisma, Frank has as much personality as a figure in an Everyman play. (I don't think it's the slick, handsome Mr. Donnell's fault that he never puts a distinctive signature on this blank page.) Fortunately Frank has two somewhat livelier friends, Mary Flynn (Celia Keenan-Bolger), an alcoholic novelist, and Charley Kringas (Lin-Manuel Miranda), a playwright who is Frank's collaborator and Jiminy Cricket-like conscience.
Mary and Charley are archetypes too, bringing to mind the fast-quipping, showbiz-savvy chums in old MGM musicals played by Nanette Fabray and Oscar Levant. But Mr. Sondheim invests them with that layering of anger, wit and wistfulness that makes him such a great portraitist as a songwriter. And Ms. Keenan-Bolger (who also does marvelously by the best lines in the script) and Mr. Miranda (the creator and star of ''In the Heights'') bring original verve and credibility to their songs. (The cast also includes the likable Adam Grupper as a Broadway producer and Elizabeth Stanley as his voracious diva of a wife.)
The conceptual design weighs everyone down, though. The show features continuing projections (by a master of the craft, Wendall K. Harrington) of familiar time-capsule images. (The Beatles! Jack and Jackie!) And thanks to Photoshop the characters' faces have been interpolated, so you now see them with the likes of Dick Cavett, Yoko Ono and Betty Friedan.
The device only underscores the musical's inherent gimmickry, and it distances characters who are hard to embrace to begin with. Even Dan Knechtges's choreography is saddled with threadbare quotation marks. (Must we really, in this year of ''Smash,'' have yet another variation on Marilyn Monroe doing ''Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend''?)
There's probably too much brass in Jonathan Tunick's retooled orchestrations; flash and stridency often overwhelm the tenderness in the score. (Rob Berman leads the Encores! orchestra.) Yet the charms of the music are still abundantly evident, not just in the ballads of hope and heartbreak (''Our Time,'' ''Not a Day Goes By'') but also in the sly reworking of frolicsome Comden-and-Green-style odes to companionship, good and bad.
As Mr. Donnell, Ms. Keenan-Bolger and Mr. Miranda perform the seemingly blithe trio ''Old Friends,'' you're aware of the contradictory feelings of love and irritation and resentment that inform every element of the song. No composer of musicals has ever sustained as many strata of emotions in a single number (or a single phrase) as Mr. Sondheim does.
That's why we'll probably keep revisiting ''Merrily We Roll Along,'' again and again, in the years to come. And why, in the face of disillusion, we continue to hope that through some miracle this show will have grown up, after all, to be a worthy mate for the blessed score at its center.
Merrily We Roll Along
Music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim; book by George Furth, based on the play by George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart; directed by James Lapine; music director, Rob Berman; musical staging by Dan Knechtges; sets by John Lee Beatty; costumes by Ann Hould-Ward; lighting by Ken Billington; sound by Dan Moses Schreier; concert adaptation by Mr. Lapine; projections by Wendall K. Harrington; hair and wig design by Tom Watson; music coordinator, Seymour Red Press; company manager, Michael Zande; production stage manager, Peter Lawrence; orchestrations by Jonathan Tunick. Presented by New York City Center Encores! at New York City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan; (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. Through Feb. 19. Running time: 2 hours 30 minutes.
WITH: Colin Donnell (Franklin Shepard), Adam Grupper (Joe Josephson), Celia Keenan-Bolger (Mary Flynn), Lin-Manuel Miranda (Charley Kringas), Elizabeth Stanley (Gussie Carnegie) and Betsy Wolfe (Beth Spencer).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Merrily We Roll Along: From left, Celia Keenan-Bolger, Colin Donnell and Lin-Manuel Miranda in this Encores! show at City Center. (C1)
 Lin-Manuel Miranda, left, with Colin Donnell and Celia Keenan-Bolger in an Encores! staging of ''Merrily We Roll Along.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARI MINTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); WRITERS (72%); THEATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Merrily We Roll Along (Play)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



405 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Central Banks in Europe Hold Line on Rates

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and JULIA WERDIGIER; Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt and Julia Werdigier from London.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- The European Central Bank left its main interest rate unchanged Thursday, as policy makers waited to see whether signs of improving growth meant that the euro zone economy had already put the worst behind it.
Separately, the Bank of England also left its benchmark rate unchanged Thursday at a record low, but decided to expand its asset-buying program by $:50 billion, or $79 billion, to $:325 billion to help the British economy avoid falling back into a recession.
Some major economic indicators in the euro zone have been better than expected recently, raising hopes that a downturn at the end of 2011 will be short-lived. But the picture is muddy, and turmoil in Greece continues to pose a threat to European economies.
Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, gave a slightly more upbeat assessment of the euro zone economy Thursday, saying there were ''tentative signs of a stabilization in economic activity at a low level.'' 
''We expect the euro area economy to recover very gradually in the course of 2012,'' he said at a news conference after the monthly monetary policy meeting of the central bank's governing council.
But Mr. Draghi also expressed concern that credit remained in short supply, and announced steps to expand lending by the European Central Bank to smaller banks, which are a crucial source of financing for small companies.
After just three months in office, Mr. Draghi has presided over a steep decline in financial market tension. Last month, the central bank allowed banks to borrow as much money as they wanted at the benchmark rate of 1 percent for three years, compared with a previous maximum of one year. That step compensated for a dearth of market financing for banks.
''We averted a major credit crunch,'' Mr. Draghi said.
The move also raised confidence that the European Central Bank would do what it took to hold the euro zone together.
''Because of this intervention by Draghi there is a kind of implicit understanding in markets that if the euro zone crisis explodes and you have a serious crisis of confidence, the E.C.B. will intervene even if it's against its mandate,'' said Harald A. Benink, a banking professor at Tilburg University in the Netherlands. ''You see that markets are much more optimistic.''
The European Central Bank will offer another installment of 1 percent loans to banks at the end of this month. Some analysts predict that banks will borrow as much as 1 trillion euros, or $1.33 trillion, more than double what they drew in December. If so, the central bank's lending would start to approach the size of the Federal Reserve's measures to help the United States economy.
Mr. Draghi urged banks to avail themselves of the low-cost money, and ridiculed chief executives who have boasted that they do not need European Central Bank's help. Without giving names, he called such boasts ''statements of virility'' made in some cases by heads of banks that in fact had borrowed from the European Central Bank. The E.C.B. does not disclose which banks use its credit lines.
Mr. Draghi's more optimistic view of the economy dampened expectations that the European Central Bank would cut its benchmark interest rate at its next meeting or in coming months. The rate is already tied with its record low.
''Leading indicators tend to signal the mild recession to end in spring,'' Jorg Kramer, chief economist at Commerzbank, wrote in a note to clients. ''This strongly suggests unchanged E.C.B. rates.''
With evident relief, Mr. Draghi also noted that he had received a phone call just before the news conference from Lucas D. Papademos, the caretaker prime minister of Greece and a former vice president of the European Central Bank, saying that an agreement had been reached to allow the country to receive another installment of aid and avoid a default.
''A few minutes ago, I got a call from the prime minister of Greece saying an agreement has been reached and has been endorsed by the major parties,'' Mr. Draghi said. He also said that an agreement appeared near between Greece and private creditors to reduce the country's debt load.
In announcing that the Bank of England would keep its benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent and expand its purchases of government bonds, Mervyn A. King, the governor of the central bank, explained that the extra stimulus was needed to avoid having consumer price inflation falling below the government's 2 percent target in the medium term. Inflation is currently at 4.2 percent.
''The underlying pace of recovery slowed during 2011,'' Mr. King wrote in a letter to the Treasury. ''Some recent business surveys have painted a more positive picture and asset prices have risen. But the pace of expansion in the United Kingdom's main export markets has also slowed and concerns remain about the indebtedness and competitiveness of some euro area countries.''
Britain has been teetering on the brink of another recession as an increase in energy and food prices combined with cuts in public sector jobs, pay and pensions squeezed disposable incomes. Consumers have held back on spending and many companies have postponed investments because of uncertainties about the economic crisis in the euro zone, Britain's largest export market.
''It's still very difficult for consumers,'' Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics in London, said. ''Inflation is still relatively high, and events in the euro zone will continue to impact'' the British economy.
The Bank of England said it would expand its purchases of government bonds and other assets by $:50 billion to ease pressure on the credit markets. Banks generally remain reluctant to lend, and smaller businesses, especially, continue to find it difficult to get loans.
Britain's economy might shrink 0.1 percent this year and then grow 2.3 percent next year as the strains of the euro zone spill over to Britain -- which is a member of the European Union but not of the euro zone -- the National Institute of Economic and Social Research said last month. Capital Economics predicts that the economy will shrink 0.5 percent this year and that the Bank of England will expand its bond buying program further.
Some positive data about the British economy, published over the past month, could point toward a return of consumer confidence, some economists said. But headwinds from the euro zone mean it is too early to predict an economic turnaround.
The Bank of England has so far pumped $:275 billion into Britain's economy through its asset-purchasing program, a practice called quantitative easing. Adam Posen, a policy maker at the central bank, told BBC Radio this month that the program was working and that ''things would have been much worse if we hadn't done the quantitative easing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mario Draghi, foreground, president of the European Central Bank, and the bank's vice president, Vitor Constancio, in Frankfurt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILY WABITSCH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); EURO ZONE (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (58%); NETHERLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



406 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Plan Gives Billions to Homeowners, but With Exceptions

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and JULIE CRESWELL; Shaila Dewan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As state and federal authorities announced the details of their $26 billion mortgage settlement with big banks on Thursday, millions of American homeowners were hoping that this time they would finally get relief.
Some, like Jessica Cooper of Toledo, Ohio, will discover the program's limitations.
Since she was laid off in June 2009, Ms. Cooper and her husband have been pressing Bank of America to modify the terms of the $112,000 mortgage on their home. But because the loan is owned by the Federal Housing Administration, it is not covered. Similarly, Carlos Sandoval de Leon has been seeking a break from Wells Fargo on the $662,000 he owes on a Brooklyn brownstone. But because that mortgage is held by a private investor, it too falls outside the scope of the agreement, which mostly covers loans held by the banks themselves.
The bulk of the settlement, about $20 billion, would go to one million American homeowners who would have their mortgage debts reduced or their loans refinanced at a lower interest rate. It also includes $1.5 billion for roughly 750,000 people who lost their homes to foreclosure between 2008 and 2011, with each receiving between $1,500 and $2,000. 
Economists do not expect a big boost for the economy, in part because the banks have three years to distribute the aid. Some experts questioned whether the accord would do much to stabilize the housing market and its glut of millions of foreclosed homes.
Critics also pointed to the fact that millions of mortgages owned by the government's housing finance agencies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, would not be covered under the deal, excluding about half the nation's mortgages.
''The effect of this settlement will be catalytic,'' Shaun Donovan, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, said in an interview.
He predicted it would spur more loan modifications through existing government programs as well as principal reductions -- when loan debt is written down for borrowers who owe more than their home is worth -- as well as additional mortgage relief provided by banks.
''We do believe there should be principal reduction at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,'' he added. ''We've been disappointed that this hasn't happened thus far.'' He said the government had proposed incentives for Fannie and Freddie to cut loan balances under an existing program, and the two mortgage giants were studying the idea.
Advocates for homeowners facing foreclosure expressed cautious optimism after the settlement was announced Thursday morning in Washington. ''We're hopeful,'' said Joseph Sant, a lawyer at Staten Island Legal Services' homeowner defense project. ''But we had a lot of programs that are good on paper. What will make the difference is that it's vigorously enforced.''
President Obama declared the deal the largest federal-state settlement in the nation's history.
''No compensation, no amount of money, no measure of justice is enough to make it right for a family who's had their piece of the American dream wrongly taken from them,'' he said. ''And no action, no matter how meaningful, is going to by itself entirely heal the housing market. But this settlement is a start.''
Homeowners in two states -- Florida and California -- will reap more than half of the $26 billion settlement, a reflection of the disproportionate number of loans that are delinquent or exceed the value of the underlying property there, government regulators said.
The amounts from individual banks were linked to their share of the servicing market. The biggest, Bank of America, would provide $11.8 billion, followed by $5.4 billion from Wells Fargo, $5.3 billion from JPMorgan Chase, $2.2 billion from Citigroup and $310 million from Ally. Bank of America would contribute an additional $1 billion for Federal Housing Administration loans.
And if nine other major mortgage servicers join the pact, a possibility that is now under discussion with the government, the total package could rise to $30 billion.
Banks stocks were mixed in trading Thursday, but shares of Bank of America rose 0.62 percent to $8.18, its highest level since September. Much of the money to pay for the settlement has already been reserved, and investors expect the settlement to remove at least one legal worry for Bank of America.
More than just an attempt to aid consumers and stabilize the housing market, government officials cast the settlement as an effort to finally hold banks accountable for their misdeeds, more than three years after the mortgage collapse brought on a full-scale financial crisis.
The deal is about ''righting the wrongs that led to the housing market collapse,'' said Eric H. Holder Jr., the United States attorney general. ''With this settlement, we recover precious taxpayer resources, fix a broken system and lay a groundwork for a better future.''
The agreement does not release banks from a variety of other suspected misdeeds. Regulators and prosecutors could still pursue allegations of fraud in the process by which those loans were made, known as origination, and the packaging of those mortgages into securities sold to investors by the big banks.
''We're going to keep at it until we hold those who broke the law fully accountable,'' Mr. Obama said. The agreement also imposes new standards that banks will have to follow as they deal with distressed homeowners. Mr. Donovan said the settlement would ''force the banks to clean up their acts. No more lost paperwork, no more excuses, no more runaround.''
Though some mortgage advocates praised the settlement as a needed step in the right direction, Katherine Porter, a law professor at University of California Irvine, was more skeptical.
''We have to look at this as being a modest settlement even thought the number itself, the $26 billion, is an eye-popping number,'' said Ms. Porter. ''There are millions of people who have lost their homes and this settlement will only affect a relatively small number of them.''
She was also surprises at the time -- three years -- that the servicers were being given to put the settlement into effect.
''That reflects to me a lack of urgency. That the banks don't think it is urgent or they still haven't gotten the staff, technology, ethos or platforms set up to help people quickly,'' said Ms. Porter.
''That three-year window makes me really nervous because a lot of people could be out of their homes by then.''
What is more, other critics are raising questions about so-called moral hazard, the danger that more relief encourages homeowners to default in the hopes of getting aid. News of the settlement also reignited resentment from homeowners who are current on their payments, and have shunned government aid.
Some state attorneys general closely involved with the settlement acknowledged that it provided only a small amount of restitution to individuals who lost their homes in foreclosures, even though they said their investigations uncovered rampant evidence of robo-signing and enormous problems with the servicing aspects of the loans.
''This agreement is more important for the foreclosures we're hoping to prevent,'' said Roy Cooper, the attorney general for North Carolina.
For homeowners like the Coopers and Mr. de Leon there is still hope, even if it won't come through Thursday's settlement. Both Bank of America and Wells Fargo said Thursday they were exploring other options that could prevent foreclosure.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama and Attorney General Eric Holder announced a settlement with banks to give mortgage relief to more than a million homeowners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
The $662,000 that Carlos Sandoval de Leon owes Wells Fargo on his Brooklyn brownstone is excluded from the settlement with big banks because the mortgage is held by a private investor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN PETIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) CHARTS: Help for Some Borrowers: A broad settlement with banks could help people with home mortgages that are underwater -- homes with values less than the size of the mortgage -- by reducing or refinancing their loans. People who have already lost their homes to foreclosure because of abusive practices by banks would receive an average of $1,800 to $2,000 in compensation. (Sources: Department of Housing and Urban Development
 CoreLogic) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (92%); FORECLOSURE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERVIEWS (68%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); ERIC HOLDER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



407 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: For This College Sport, the Playing Field Is a Boardroom

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE

 BODY:
Late last week, in a shadowy Manhattan boardroom, 16 deal makers gathered to lay the groundwork for multibillion-dollar deals that would move the markets - if only they were real.
At the first Wall Street Training Valuation Case Competition, aspiring moguls turned synergies into sport, in a deal simulation contest that was equal parts ''American Idol'' and ''Glengarry Glen Ross.''
Wall Street Training, a company that teaches corporate finance to budding bankers and regulators, originally conceived of the event last year as a friendly way to determine top talent for clients. It has since expanded it into a three-round gantlet, in which 25 teams of elite business students and undergraduates are winnowed down to four that competed in last week's finals at the New York offices of Oppenheimer, the investment bank. 
''Finance is a team sport,'' said Ted Michaels, Wall Street Training's vice president for strategic development. ''We're trying to find the next generation of superstars in the financial services industry.''
During the competition, each team had 20 minutes to pitch to a panel of judges their analysis on a company in one of five sectors: oil and gas, health care, real estate, clean technology or financial services. The groups were expected to assess the value of the business, identify potential growth and risk factors and propose possible strategic alternatives for the company, including mergers, acquisitions and spinoffs.
The lineup of participants filled out the tropes of a classic rumble. There were underdogs (Rutgers), blue bloods (Princeton), West Coasters (University of San Francisco) and an overseas contingent (four Chinese students who had met during an exchange program at Tulane, three of whom were flown in from China for the competition).
Rutgers kicked off the competition with its case for Transocean, the offshore drilling company. The team proposed Halliburton and BP as potential suitors, discussed possible synergies and settled on a best-case outcome: an acquisition by BP for $24.16 billion, or $50 a share. In the real stock market, Transocean closed at $48.87 that day. The team then faced questions from the judges, investment bankers and private equity investors who grilled them about litigation risks and regulatory concerns.
Four sophomores at Princeton studying economics and finance presented a discounted cash flow model and made a pitch for First Solar, a maker of solar panels, to be acquired by General Electric in an all-stock deal. Judges questioned whether First Solar could stand up to overseas competition. They also wondered whether G.E. would shy away from such a deal given the recent flap surrounding Solyndra, a solar components maker that filed for bankruptcy last year and became a political lightning rod.
The Tulane-via-Shanghai team pegged the intrinsic value of their chosen company - Chesapeake Energy Corporation, the natural gas giant - at $28.99 to $38.66 a share. They conveyed some risks of a deal, but pitched a $3.2 billion acquisition of RPC, an energy services company.
A team from the University of San Francisco put forth a situation involving PulteGroup, a large home-building company. The team members said that with the housing market stuck in the mud, the company needed a drastic change to avoid running out of cash.
''Not only is Pulte a sell,'' one member said, ''it should sell itself.''
The San Francisco team said that an ideal buyer would be Sekisui House, the Japanese home builder that has been looking to increase its American presence.
After the final presentation, judges deliberated for several minutes inside the boardroom, leaving the participants outside in a nervous scrum.
Lori Raineri, a member of the San Francisco team who, by day, works as the president of Government Financial Strategies, a financial consulting firm based in Sacramento, said that she and her teammates had formed as a business school study group and practiced for the competition over conference calls. The team, Ms. Raineri said, had been excited to fly to New York for the event, and had spent several days touring sights like the Empire State Building.
''The trip to New York was the prize,'' she said. ''I feel like we've already won.''
When the judges emerged, the event's organizer gathered all the contestants and their supporters and announced the champions, the Tulane exchange-student team. The team members - Bo Yuan, Bohua Liu, Feifan Qiang and Luo Xue - collected their prizes: an oversize check for $1,000 and financial calculators.
''Very cool,'' one contestant said, eying a winner's calculator with the quiet envy of a runner-up.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article on the DealBook page on Friday about a simulated deal-making competition for business students misspelled the names of two members of the winning team from Tulane University. They are Feifan Qiang, not Fiefan, and Luo Xue, not Xuo. The error was repeated in a picture caption.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After winning the Wall Street Training competition, a team of Tulane exchange students -- from left, Bo Yuan, Bohua Liu, Luo Xuo and Fiefan Qiang -- met with Halley Li of ICR, a public relations firm. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG WILLISTON/QOOL FOTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (87%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (70%); MERGERS (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); LITIGATION (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (65%)

COMPANY: CHESAPEAKE ENERGY CORP (82%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); SOLYNDRA INC (51%)

TICKER: CHK (NYSE) (82%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



408 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Stagnation as a Way of Life

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN and LANDON THOMAS Jr.; Liz Alderman reported from Paris and Landon Thomas Jr. from London. Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt and Stephen Castle from Brussels.

 BODY:
PARIS -- For all the struggles that Greece has gone through to satisfy its demanding lenders, Europe's troubles are not going away.
Because of the various, often incremental, steps European officials have taken during the nearly three-year debt difficulties that began in Greece, the crisis fever has cooled considerably in recent months -- including fears that the euro currency union might suddenly fall apart.
But crisis has given way to a grinding reality for Europe: economic stagnation and even, for much of the Continent, the specter of another downturn less than three years after the last recession ended.
Greek leaders on Thursday agreed to a new set of tough austerity measures, in hopes of receiving a new 130 billion-euro bailout package from the European Union and International Monetary Fund, aimed at avoiding a debt default in March. That agreement, though, is in some ways a microcosm of Europe's broader quandary, as similar measures are being embraced by other debt-saddled countries in the euro currency union, including Portugal and Ireland. 
Many analysts say the belt-tightening can only push those and other nations further into recession, sap the economies of their European trading partners and do little to address the systemic weaknesses plaguing Europe's banks.
''We take one problem off the table for the moment,'' Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., said. ''That still leaves us having to deal with the dramatic destruction of wealth that has taken place.''
Markets have recently taken a more optimistic view of Italy and Spain -- the nations where Greek ''contagion'' has long been feared to strike next, with even more dire regional consequences. Lately, both governments' borrowing costs have come down to more sustainable levels. Under new political leadership, Rome and Madrid are proceeding with restructuring plans intended not just to reduce high debts and deficits but also to lay the foundation for eventually restoring economic growth.
Investors have also been reassured by the European Central Bank's moves to lower interest rates and open the money taps to protect banks from being pushed to the wall.
''I don't see what's on the horizon that would derail this,'' said Stefan Schneider, the chief international economist at Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt. ''We are no longer in an environment where markets want to pick off Greece and move onto the next country.''
For Nicolas Veron, senior fellow at the Breugel Economic Research Institute in Brussels, that means Europe may be able to breathe easier, at least for a while. ''It doesn't mean the problems are solved,'' he said. ''But it removes some of the short-term pressure, and hopefully can create a virtuous circle.''
It all depends, though, on how the euro zone's economy fares in the months and years ahead. Investors who once criticized countries for not embracing enough austerity to mend tattered balance sheets have recently started to acknowledge that too much austerity is squeezing growth -- making it harder, rather than easier, to pay back debts.
And the growth divide that already existed between wealthy northern countries and those along the southern rim has widened even more in the last year, while those toiling in what is likely to be a drawn-out recession -- Greece and Portugal especially -- seem to be creating a third, ultraslow zone in the euro zone.
Those weak economies will weigh on Europe for years to come. They are already helping to weaken growth in Germany and once-robust countries like France, both of which are seeing their exports to other European countries suffer.
And if Greece were eventually to see no exit from its downward spiral and decide that it had no choice but to quit the euro zone -- something analysts still do not rule out, even if Athens gets this near-term bailout -- all bets are off.
''There would be contagion all over again if there is renewed talk of a Greek exit,'' Mr. Veron said. ''This will be a big theme to watch out for in the coming months.''
Serious doubts remain over Greece's ability to revive its economy and generate enough growth even to reach the goal of reducing its debt load to 120 percent of its annual economic output in 2020 -- a target stipulated by the European Union and the monetary fund.
Greece's debt was more than 159 percent of gross domestic product in last year's third quarter, according to the most recent data from Eurostat, the European Union's statistical agency. And Greek unemployment hit 21 percent in November, while industrial production plummeted 11 percent in December.
And while Greece will benefit from a debt revamping that reduces its interest rate burden in the years ahead, it is unclear how a country that has always depended on a state sector to help spur demand will be able to grow with its main economic engine effectively shackled by the budget cuts Athens is now promising.
Greece has a poor record of keeping its promises so far, raising the risk that it will not be able to meet the most recent conditions either.
''At the bottom of all this Greece still has to deliver,'' Mr. Weinberg said. ''As we saw with the first package, delivering the legislation doesn't necessarily deliver the performance. Greece could be out of compliance very quickly.''
What's more, the eventual terms of Greece's bailout deal could lead to a new set of regional uncertainties.
So far, the European Central Bank is resisting calls to help secure Greece's bailout by sending the profit from any of its Greek bond holdings toward a reduction of the nation's debt. But if the central bank caves, Ireland, Portugal and the other countries that have received crisis bailouts might ask for the same treatment.
As part of Greece's bailout deal, moreover, banks may agree to take up to a 70 percent loss on their holdings of Greek bonds. That is something Ireland and Portugal have said they want to avoid demanding of their own private creditors, so as not to frighten off investors when those countries eventually start borrowing in international markets again.
But that stance is not so popular with citizens. Enda Kenny, the Irish prime minister, said this week that, unlike the Greeks, he had no plans to press losses on banks holding Irish sovereign debt. Such talk has inflamed many Irish taxpayers, who have had to shoulder the banks' bad debts.
If Ireland asked for write-offs from lenders like those for Greece, it could pave the way for similar demands from Portugal and perhaps larger debtor countries like Spain and Italy.
''The Pandora's box has been opened for Ireland and Portugal,'' and possibly for other countries, Mr. Weinberg said. ''We don't know where this goes.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the regional implications of Greece's debt bailout negotiations used an out-of-date figure for the Greek debt level. In the third quarter of 2011, the most recent period for which data are available, Greece's government debt was 159.1 percent of gross domestic product -- not 142 percent. A figure for the fourth quarter has not yet been calculated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A graffiti-covered property for sale in Dublin, left
a broker, Luis Gouveia, in despair in Lisbon, right
and a workers demonstration in Athens, below, all speak to the economic cloud that hangs over Europe. Austerity measures and banking moves have helped ease the economic crisis somewhat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AIDAN CRAWLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS
FRANCISCO SECO/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ALKIS KONSTANTINIDIS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
Abandoned furniture in front of a closed shop in downtown Setubal, Portugal. The nation's drawn-out recession has put it in the least robust part of the euro zone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE MANUEL RIBEIRO/REUTERS)
 Enda Kenny, Ireland's prime minister, spoke on Wednesday in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLISON JOYCE/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); MADRID, SPAIN (78%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); GREECE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); IRELAND (92%); PORTUGAL (90%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (79%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



409 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: The Crowd Pleaser

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
At first glance, President Obama and Mitt Romney share some similar traits. Both Harvard Law School grads are smart and analytical. Both are emotionally reserved rather than touchy-feely. Both are traditionalist in their family and personal lives. But one glaring difference is that Obama seems self-sufficient while Romney seems other-directed.
I'm borrowing the phrase ''other-directed'' from David Riesman's 1950 classic, ''The Lonely Crowd.'' 
Riesman argued that different eras nurture different personality types. The agricultural economy nurtured tradition-directed individuals. People lived according to the ancient cycles, customs and beliefs. Children grew up and performed the same roles as their parents.
The industrial era favored the inner-directed personality type. The inner-directed person was guided by a set of strong internal convictions, like Victorian morality. The inner-directed person was a hardy pioneer, the stolid engineer or the resilient steelworker -- working on physical things. This person was often rigid, but also steadfast.
The other-directed personality type emerges in a service or information age economy. In this sort of economy, most workers are not working with physical things; they are manipulating people. The other-directed person becomes adept at pleasing others, at selling him or herself.
The other-directed person is attuned to what other people want him to be. The other-directed person is a pliable member of a team and yearns for acceptance. He or she is less notable for having a rigid character than for having a smooth personality.
I don't actually know what sort of person Romney is. He's a reticent man. He's unwilling to talk about his roots, home and family history, so it is hard to understand what's really going on in his head. But he is giving the impression of being a classic other-directed type.
He went to business school and learned to adapt to the needs of the marketplace. He didn't specialize in a specific industry, like shipping or airlines. He specialized in the management of management. In politics, he became the product he himself is selling, and that product has changed as his target market has changed. This presidential campaign Romney has been describing himself as a turnaround artist, suggesting to people that he is rootless hired gun, detached from any specific location, community or product.
Voters know that all politicians market themselves. But with Romney, many people wonder if it is marketing all the way down.
This is a bad moment to be coming across as an other-directed person. Americans are again in a state of spiritual anxiety, wondering if they are losing the hardy pioneer virtues that built the nation and defeated fascism and communism. In a period of fragmentation, information overload and social distrust, they want a leader who is rooted and resolute.
Republicans are especially suspicious of the other-directed type. They feel as if they are battling against the headwinds of a hostile elite culture. They want their candidate to have built his temple upon a rock, to possess an unshakeable set of convictions, to be impervious to the opposition of Washington's entrenched interests. They also believe that the next president is going to have to make some brutally difficult decisions in order to reduce the debt. This is not a task for someone who is perpetually adjusting to market signals.
If Romney is to thrive, he really needs to go on an integrity tour. He needs to show how his outer pronouncements flow directly from his inner core. He needs to trust that voters will take him as he really is. He needs to tell his own complicated individual story and stop reducing himself to the outsider/businessman advertising cliche. He needs to tell us what about his character is more fundamental than his national park patriotism and his skill at corporate restructuring.
He needs to stop opportunistically backtracking on his Medicare position, just to please whatever senior group he happens to be in front of. He needs to show that he is willing to pursue at least a few unpopular policies, even policies that are unfashionable in his own party. Since many people fear that he is a suck-up, it would actually help him at this point if he violated party orthodoxy in some bold and independent way.
He needs to step outside the cautious incrementalism that is the inevitable product of excessive polling and focus-group testing. He needs to find a policy like entitlement reform that is so important to him that he's willing to risk losing the presidency over it. The eternal rule of presidential politics is that a candidate has to be willing to lose everything if he's going to win everything.
If Rick Santorum weren't running for president, he would still be saying the same things he is saying today. Very few people believe that about Mitt Romney. If he can't fix that problem, he may win the Republican nomination, but it won't be worth much.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); FAMILY (77%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



410 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Pessimism High, Republicans Warn of Possible Expiration of Payroll Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congressional Republicans said Thursday that negotiations over extending a payroll tax cut were going so poorly that it was possible the tax break -- along with added unemployment benefits -- could expire at the end of the month.
If the benefits are allowed to lapse, it will be a stunning coda to a battle that has lasted months on Capitol Hill over whether and how to extend a two-percentage-point tax break for nearly every working American and to provide additional unemployment benefits for millions more. A temporary agreement forged in December cost Republicans politically and left both parties locked in another round of fights over how to cover the costs. 
In addition, Republicans are seeking numerous policy changes connected to unemployment benefits -- like a mandatory high school equivalency program and possible drug testing for beneficiaries -- that Democrats have rejected out of hand. They would also reduce the benefits to 59 weeks, far less than the 79 weeks sought by President Obama.
Democrats have dismissed a host of Republican suggestions for how to pay for the extensions and have made few significant public counteroffers, leading Republicans to insist that the party is not serious about making a deal.
''If the Democrats' solution means they are not paying for extensions, expiration is a real possibility,'' said Representative Renee Ellmers of North Carolina, a Republican member of the House-Senate committee charged with coming up with a deal.
The committee was formed last year after the two parties were unable to agree on how to pay for a full-year extension of the benefits, as well as a measure to prevent a cut in fees for doctors who accept Medicare.
An expiration of the benefits would present both parties with significant political risks. Democrats assume that voters will blame Republicans should working Americans see a sudden tax increase on their paychecks. However, many economists believe that the expirations would damage the nation's fragile economic recovery, and Mr. Obama could well ultimately receive the blame.
House Republicans say they believe that their various proposals inoculate them from the perception that they have not tried to reach an agreement this time, unlike in December when many of their members vocally opposed such a deal. Even Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, a top Republican negotiator who has repeatedly said he dislikes the payroll tax holiday, said he would like to see a package come together.
However, theirs is a far more calculated risk, since polling has shown that voters blame Congressional Republicans more than Democrats for dysfunction on Capitol Hill.
On Wednesday, Democrats presented a one-page counterproposal to the House offer on unemployment insurance benefits that would cap the length of time that unemployment benefits are paid out at 93 weeks for the remainder of the year.
Republicans all but laughed.
''The president and Senate Democrat leaders will not allow their conferees to support a reasonable bipartisan agreement on spending cuts,'' Speaker John A. Boehner told reporters Thursday. ''Worse, they've refused to allow any alternatives at all except for job-killing small-business tax hikes that they know can't pass the Senate, much less pass the House.''
Ms. Ellmers called the proposal ''an insult to the American people.''
The committee still has another week to work out a deal, and Democrats next week are likely to make suggestions for payment options that could be more difficult for Republicans to reject out of hand, including the closing of tax loopholes. In exchange, it is possible that Democrats will accept some of the policy provisions or payment options that they have so far rejected.
Democrats continue to insist that Republicans are trying to undercut a deal because they dislike the notion of a payroll tax holiday. Some Republicans have continued to cast a cold eye toward the tax cut, because they say it does not stimulate the economy and because it borrows from Social Security; those dollars are replaced from general fund revenues.
''Republicans are stating publicly that they oppose this middle-class tax cut -- with one calling it 'bad policy' and another stipulating that putting more money in the pockets of middle-class families is 'just a gimmick,' '' said Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader. ''Given the division within their own ranks, Republican leaders should spend their energy convincing their fellow Republicans not to block this middle-class tax cut yet again.''
While both sides of the aisle are less than excited to do another short-term deal, neither side would rule it out, and Mr. Reid has said he will pursue his own bill if the talks collapse. Optimism also continues to blossom in the office of the House Republican whip, which has listed ''the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act'' as legislation that could come to the floor next week before Congress takes a holiday break.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); TAX INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); MEDICARE (70%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (67%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); RENEE ELLMERS (58%); JON KYL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



411 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Santorum Adjusting to Star Treatment on Trail

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
PLANO, Tex. -- A crowd of well-wishers and autograph-seekers surrounded Rick Santorum at an event hall here this week. The place was packed; dozens of men, women and children stranded outside stood in the cold just to catch a glimpse of him.
People approached him with tears in their eyes. They gave him cowboy hats, personal notes, quilts sewn for his seriously ill 3-year-old daughter and envelopes with checks inside. His campaign had raised $1 million online in 24 hours. Earlier, at a nearby hotel, he had to apologize to those hoping to have their pictures taken with him, explaining that he had a television show to get ready for.
But as Mr. Santorum made his way through the crowd, he was asked if anything felt new. ''No, no,'' he said. ''The same old, the same old.''
Of course, that was hard to believe: This was the Santorum campaign, post-trifecta. 
On Tuesday night, Mr. Santorum stunned the political world by winning the Minnesota and Colorado caucuses and a nonbinding primary in Missouri, reviving his flagging candidacy. On Wednesday and Thursday, at a series of campaign stops in the suburbs north of Dallas and in Oklahoma, Mr. Santorum took advantage of a burst of momentum and campaign donations that have followed his three victories. Though overtaking Mitt Romney, the Republican front-runner, is still a formidable challenge, Mr. Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, has become as much of a political rock star as he has ever been in his life.
As his remarks suggest, he has had a curious reaction to the sudden attention -- he is trying to make it seem natural and inevitable, carrying himself not as an upstart or an underdog, but as a front-runner. In his speeches in Texas and Oklahoma, he cast his main rival as President Obama, not Mr. Romney or Newt Gingrich, his rival for the conservative Republican voter.
''We need to have someone who's going to go out and paint that vision of what America looks like versus Barack Obama,'' Mr. Santorum said on Wednesday evening in the Dallas suburb of Allen. ''We need to make him and his failed policies the issue in this race. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm the best candidate to do that.''
Though he may want to sound like a front-runner, the reality is that he has neither the organization nor money that a front-runner in a national race usually commands.
And his support among social conservatives, meanwhile, is hardly assured: the endorsement he received shortly before the South Carolina primary in January from a group of evangelical leaders and Christian conservatives meeting in Texas did little for him then.
''The voters took a serious look at him in Iowa, and then his poll numbers dropped precipitously, when they decided he wasn't ready for the biggest job on the planet,'' said Jim McGrath, a Republican strategist in Houston who is a supporter of Mr. Romney's. ''He pops up with a big night earlier this week, and he should be congratulated for that. But there's nothing to indicate that there is a durable confidence in Santorum in this bump that is any different than the last bump that faded. His political stock has been a little shaky.''
Mr. Santorum's three wins seemed to have had the biggest effect on those who came to see him this week. The more they swarmed around him trying to see what was causing the surge in momentum, the more they created the surge of momentum they were clamoring to see.
''I love that he carries the family values with him,'' said Becky Boydstun, 37, a stay-at-home mother from Frisco, Tex., who stood on a bench outside the packed barn-style hall in Plano trying to hear his speech. ''When you don't put yourself up on a pedestal, when you can relate to people on a general level, it draws them to you even more.''
As he has throughout the campaign, he linked conservative social values to economic prosperity. In Texas, he prayed with a group of pastors, met with Tea Party activists and told the members of the Republican Women of North Collin County that a strong family unit is not only good for the country, but also good for the economy.
In Oklahoma City on Thursday morning, he was scheduled to speak at a gun range and shooting sports complex, but because of the expected turnout, the event was moved to the ballroom of a nearby convention center. Mr. Santorum addressed roughly 1,000 people about the dangers of big government and attacked President Obama's health care, energy and economic policies.
Near the end of his one-hour speech, he pulled a copy of the Constitution from his pocket -- calling it ''the operator's manual for America'' -- and recited the opening of the Declaration of Independence, pausing at the word ''Creator,'' so the audience could say it out loud, which they did.
''Our rights don't come from the government,'' he said.
Before Thursday, Max Lubitz, 25, a military officer who is on leave at Tinker Air Force Base near Oklahoma City, had been torn between voting for Mr. Gingrich or Mr. Santorum. After watching Mr. Santorum, he said he would support him. ''I think this speech sealed it for me,'' he said. ''The electricity was alive in the room.''
A give-and-take unfolded at his events in Texas and Oklahoma. The confidence and ease Mr. Santorum has displayed on the stump in the days since his three victories has fed into -- and off of -- his audience's confidence and enthusiasm in him.
At one point in his remarks in Oklahoma City, Mr. Santorum mentioned Oklahoma's 43 Republican delegates.
''They're all yours!'' someone shouted, to applause.
To his supporters, everything was a sign of Mr. Santorum's new popularity and electability: the line of cars waiting to get into an event, the fact that he was running late because he had a television interview, even his style of delivering a speech without notes.
''Folks, we don't need a reader-in-chief, we need a commander-in-chief,'' he said, referring to Mr. Obama's use of a teleprompter.
But his digs at the president are not what people talk about as they crowd around him to shake his hand. It is his 3-year-old daughter, Isabella, or Bella, as she is known, who has a fatal chromosomal disorder called Trisomy 18. Bella's struggle is the emotional undercurrent of his campaign and, for his supporters, has become inseparable from Mr. Santorum's appeal as a Christian conservative who opposes abortion.
''When she got pneumonia, he stopped his campaign,'' said Stephanie Broardt, an Oklahoma City stay-at-home mother who stood on a chair to watch his speech. ''He strikes me as a good father. That's another reason why I love him, because he's a family man. Other candidates cannot say that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Lopez of Yukon, Okla., prayed with Rick Santorum at a rally Thursday at the Magnuson Hotel and Meridian Convention Center in Oklahoma City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARETT FISBECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); CAUCUSES (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); POLITICS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); SUBURBS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



412 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Bill Banning Insider Trades By Officials

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed a bill on Thursday to ban insider trading by members of Congress and to impose new ethics requirements on lawmakers and federal agency officials.
The 417-to-2 vote occurred less than three weeks after President Obama demanded such action in his State of the Union address. The Senate approved a similar bill by a vote of 96 to 3 on Feb. 2.
The lopsided votes concealed deep disagreements over details of the legislation, which now goes back to the Senate. The two chambers could try to work out their differences in a conference committee or through informal negotiations. 
House Republican leaders eliminated a provision of the Senate-passed bill that would, for the first time, regulate firms that collect ''political intelligence'' for hedge funds, private equity funds and other investors. Under the Senate bill, such firms would have to register and report their activities, as lobbyists do. In place of this requirement, the House calls for a study of whether to require the registration of people who collect political intelligence for the use of investors.
The swift response and the debate in both chambers showed how defensive and anxious lawmakers have become about the low esteem in which Congress is held. Its public approval rating has sunk below 15 percent.
''We need to stop the insidious practice of insider trading, giving members of this body an unfair advantage over Americans who sent us here to represent them,'' said Representative Kathy Hochul, Democrat of New York. ''Let us begin the long process of restoring the faith of the American people in this institution.''
Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York, who has been pushing ethics legislation since 2006, said, ''It appears that the House Republican leadership could not stomach pressure from the political intelligence community, which is unregulated and unseen and operates in the dark.''
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, who wrote the proposed disclosure requirement, denounced ''the chutzpah'' of House Republican leaders, who he said had ''wiped out any chance of meaningful transparency for the political intelligence industry.'' He said he would fight to restore the requirement.
The House majority leader, Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia, said the political intelligence section of the Senate bill was flawed.
''That provision raises an awful lot of questions,'' Mr. Cantor said Thursday on the House floor. ''There is a lot of discussion and debate about who and what would qualify and fall under the suggested language that came from the Senate. That is why we are calling for a study.''
The chamber's Democratic leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, said the House-passed bill had ''serious omissions'' and was ''much diminished'' from the Senate version. She supported it as a way to advance the legislation, but said, ''I don't want anyone to interpret the strong vote for it to be a seal of approval.''
Some Republicans described the bill as an overreaction, but voted for it anyway, saying they could not easily explain their concerns to a restive public. The votes against the bill were cast by Representatives John Campbell of California and Rob Woodall of Georgia, both Republicans.
The bill is known as the Stock Act, or the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act. The Senate version was written by members of both parties. The House version was prepared by Republican leaders -- Democrats said they had not been consulted -- and it was debated on the House floor under a rule that precluded amendments.
House Republicans had their own reasons for supporting the bill.
Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said: ''The risk of government self-dealing is heightened by the huge growth in recent years of the federal government and its increasing entanglement with the private economy. Big government can move markets. That's why we need strong rules to reassure the public that decision makers are not enriching themselves by investing based on insider knowledge of government policies.''
The bill would prohibit members of Congress from trading stocks and other securities on the basis of confidential information they receive as lawmakers. It makes clear that the insider trading ban in federal law applies to members of Congress and their aides and to officials in the executive and judicial branches of the federal government.
Moreover, the bill requires members of Congress to disclose the purchase or sale of stocks, bonds, commodities futures and other securities within 30 to 45 days of transactions. The information would be posted on the Web.
A similar disclosure requirement would apply to thousands of federal employees in the executive branch, including the White House, cabinet departments and independent agencies.
The House added a provision to prohibit members of Congress and executive branch officials from receiving special access to initial public stock offerings because of their positions. Republicans said the provision was inspired by an investment in the initial public offering by Visa Inc. in 2008 by Ms. Pelosi, who was then the speaker of the House.
The legislation, as passed by both houses, would deny federal pensions to members of Congress who are convicted of felonies involving public corruption. It would also require lawmakers to disclose the terms of mortgages on their homes.
Ms. Slaughter and Representative Tim Walz, Democrat of Minnesota, led the charge for the legislation in the House.
''The perception is that members of Congress are enriching themselves,'' Mr. Walz said. ''That's not only an affront to our neighbors, that we are not playing by the rules. It is a cancer that can destroy the democracy.''
Federal securities law does not explicitly exempt members of Congress, but experts disagree on whether and when lawmakers may be found to have violated the law. The bill is meant to eliminate any ambiguity.
The legislation says that lawmakers have ''a duty arising from a relationship of trust and confidence'' to Congress, the federal government and citizens of the United States -- a duty they violate by trading on nonpublic information.
Explaining his vote against the measure, Mr. Campbell said, ''This is an ambiguous bill that could potentially and unintentionally cause constituents and members of Congress to break the law by simply asking or answering a question about the prospects of federal legislation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); INSIDER TRADING (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (78%); ETHICS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%)

PERSON: KATHY HOCHUL (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); LOUISE MCINTOSH SLAUGHTER (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



413 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Ignoring Western Sanctions, India Explores Opportunities in Iran

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: India is "rebuking" sanctions against Iran, American lawmakers say. 

 BODY:
India announced its decision to send a large trade delegation to Iran Thursday, making India "a major new irritant" in Western efforts to isolate Iran, Rick Gladstone wrote in The New York Times. 
The delegation will, "exploit opportunities created by the American and European antinuclear sanctions that are increasingly disrupting Iran's economy." 
The trade delegation announcement coincided with new reports that India, an important consumer of Iranian oil, had eclipsed China for the first time as Iran's No. 1 petroleum customer last month, subverting efforts by the United States to persuade other countries to find non-Iranian sources for their energy needs or risk onerous penalties under a new American sanctions law. 
The situation was discussed at a confirmation hearing Tuesday for President Obama's nominee for ambassador to India, Nancy J. Powell. 
The Indian government,"seems to be rebuking the sanctions and looking for workarounds," Senator Robert Menendez, a New Jersey democrat said at the hearing. 
Asked by Mr. Menendez what she would do about it, Mrs. Powell, a veteran diplomat, responded that she understood that "this is going to be a very important topic and one of those that I will be dealing with very seriously and very early in my tenure." 
Read full article here. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Iran

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (67%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (79%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2012



414 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: College Is Increasingly Out of Reach for the Poor, Studies Find

BYLINE: DANIEL E. SLOTNIK


HIGHLIGHT: Several studies indicate a growing education gap between the rich and the poor, which extends to college. 

 BODY:
Our colleague Sabrina Tavernise wrote a story on Friday about studies that indicate a growing education gap in America between the rich and poor. The studies, derived from data measured before the recession, show that the divide is also growing in college while the education gap between black and white children has narrowed.
The changes are tectonic, a result of social and economic processes unfolding over many decades. The data from most of these studies end in 2007 and 2008, before the recession's full impact was felt. Researchers said that based on experiences during past recessions, the recent downturn was likely to have aggravated the trend.
"With income declines more severe in the lower brackets, there's a good chance the recession may have widened the gap," Professor Reardon said. In the study he led, researchers analyzed 12 sets of standardized test scores starting in 1960 and ending in 2007. He compared children from families in the 90th percentile of income - the equivalent of around $160,000 in 2008, when the study was conducted - and children from the 10th percentile, $17,500 in 2008. By the end of that period, the achievement gap by income had grown by 40 percent, he said, while the gap between white and black students, regardless of income, had shrunk substantially.
Both studies were first published last fall in a book of research, "Whither Opportunity?" compiled by the Russell Sage Foundation, a research center for social sciences, and the Spencer Foundation, which focuses on education. Their conclusions, while familiar to a small core of social sciences scholars, are now catching the attention of a broader audience, in part because income inequality has been a central theme this election season.
One reason for the growing gap in achievement, researchers say, could be that wealthy parents invest more time and money than ever before in their children (in weekend sports, ballet, music lessons, math tutors, and in overall involvement in their children's schools), while lower-income families, which are now more likely than ever to be headed by a single parent, are increasingly stretched for time and resources. This has been particularly true as more parents try to position their children for college, which has become ever more essential for success in today's economy.
A study by Sabino Kornrich, a researcher at the Center for Advanced Studies at the Juan March Institute in Madrid, and Frank F. Furstenberg, scheduled to appear in the journal Demography this year, found that in 1972, Americans at the upper end of the income spectrum were spending five times as much per child as low-income families. By 2007 that gap had grown to nine to one; spending by upper-income families more than doubled, while spending by low-income families grew by 20 percent.
"The pattern of privileged families today is intensive cultivation," said Dr. Furstenberg, a professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania.
The gap is also growing in college. The University of Michigan study, by Susan M. Dynarski and Martha J. Bailey, looked at two generations of students, those born from 1961 to 1964 and those born from 1979 to 1982. By 1989, about one-third of the high-income students in the first generation had finished college; by 2007, more than half of the second generation had done so. By contrast, only 9 percent of the low-income students in the second generation had completed college by 2007, up only slightly from a 5 percent college completion rate by the first generation in 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); FAMILY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); TRENDS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (62%); MUSIC (50%) For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors; Paying Your Way

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



415 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 1887 words

HEADLINE: Black and White: Charles Murray and Baratunde Thurston Quiz Each Other

BYLINE: GREGORY COWLES


HIGHLIGHT: Charles Murray, author of "Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010," and Baratunde Thurston, author of "How to Be Black," answer questions about race and class from each other's books. 

 BODY:
Charles Murray's book "Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010" about the class divide in white America, hits The New York Times hardcover nonfiction best-seller list at No. 9 this week. Mr. Murray - whose previous book, "The Bell Curve," spent 15 weeks on the list in 1994-95 - devotes a chapter in "Coming Apart" to a quiz measuring how much his upper-middle-class readers know about "the rest of America." (It includes questions about domestic beer, Nascar and "Desperate Housewives.")
As it happens, Baratunde Thurston's book "How to Be Black," at No. 24 on the e-book nonfiction best-seller list (and No. 21 on the extended hardcover list), also features a set of questions about cultural identity, including "Where did you get that name?" and "How black are you?" In the spirit of journalistic mischief, I invited Mr. Murray to answer Mr. Thurston's questions and vice versa, letting Mr. Murray substitute "white" for "black" where appropriate. 
Murray Answers Thurston's Questions
Q.
Where did you get that name?
A.
My paternal grandfather was a Charles and my middle name, Alan, was my dad's name. About as white-bread a way to get first and middle names as there is.
Q.
When did you first realize you were white?
A.
I grew up in an Iowa town of about 15,000 with one black family, no Asians, no Latinos and two Jewish families. So basically it was a town of about 14,988 white Christians (or nominally Christian, anyway). So it must have taken a long time to realize I was white. I do remember being fascinated by Ebony magazine, which was carried at the local library, and poring through it when I was in grade school. So I had to know I was white by the time I was 7 or 8. 
Q.
How white are you?
A.
Well, I did live for six years in a foreign culture (Thailand), and deep in it - not in the expat community - was married for 13 years to a Thai woman, used to speak Thai fluently. But I'm still really, really white - which is to say, I'm a white Iowan, than which there is nothing whiter. Everything Garrison Keillor says about Minnesotans goes double for Iowans. 
Q.
Do you know what an Oreo is?
A.
Yes! But surely there can't be anybody over the age of 40 who doesn't know the answer to this question. I will add that the Oreo concept drove me nuts. While I was writing "Losing Ground," I was a volunteer tutor for the HAP program in D.C., which provided after-school enrichment for the kids in the D.C. public schools who were doing the best (what a revolutionary concept: provide support to kids who were achieving). These students had to swim against a tide of accusations of being Oreos, "acting white" and the rest. We all know how powerful peer pressure is when you're young. White racism was a trivial barrier (in my view) to the future of these children compared to the damage done by the Oreo concept. 
Q.
Why are you wearing that black man's jersey?
A.
This seems to be the right way to amend Thurston's question "Why are you wearing that white man over your heart?" [Somebody asked this to one of Thurston's classmates in reference to the team logo on his Raiders N.F.L. Starter jacket; Thurston uses it as the entree to a discussion about black pride, separatism and assimilation.] Hundreds of thousands - maybe millions - of white kids wear the basketball or football jersey of their hero, and that hero is black. That's nice.
Q.
Have you ever wanted to be white?
A.
Why would I want a thing like that? All I've heard since I came of age is that we whites get all the breaks. 
Q.
Can you swim?
A.
Yes, but in sort of a black way.
Q.
How's that postracial thing working out for ya?
A.
Actually, pretty well. I've been noticing the last few years how normal and easy the relationships I see between blacks and whites have become. The bending-over-backward stuff of the 1970s and '80s has largely disappeared, at least in my neck of the woods (rural Maryland). There's a lot of just-folks-getting-long interactions around these days. It's especially noticeable in my children's generation, but people in their 50s and 60s also seem to be doing a lot better than they used to.
Thurston Answers Murray's Questions
Q.
Have you ever lived for at least a year in an American neighborhood in which the majority of your 50 nearest neighbors probably did not have college degrees?
A.
Yes. My neighborhood of Columbia Heights in Washington, D.C., fit this description for the 13 years in which I lived there. With all the gentrification of D.C. I'm not sure it would meet that criteria today. I mean, there's a Target and a wine bar in the neighborhood now.
Q.
Did you grow up in a family in which the chief breadwinner was not in a managerial job or a high-prestige profession (de\xAC\x81ned as attorney, physician, dentist, architect, engineer, scientist or college professor)?
A.
Yes, sort of. My mother transitioned steadily upward in her profession before and during my lifetime. I knew her as a computer programmer, but she held paralegal, secretarial and domestic jobs before that, so I'm not sure.
Q.
Have you ever lived for at least a year in an American community under 50,000 population that is not part of a metropolitan area and was not where your college was located?
A.
I don't suppose Boston counts. It can feel so tiny sometimes! Now I'm in New York where I'm pretty sure 50,000 people live in my apartment building.
Q.
Have you ever lived for at least a year in the United States at a family income that was close to or below the poverty line? You may answer "yes" if your family income then was below $30,000 in 2010 dollars. Graduate school doesn't count. Living unemployed with your family after college doesn't count. Take your best guess.
A.
I'd have to check my mom's pay stubs, which she left behind. We may have been close, but I'm pretty sure the answer is no. I know we were never on government assistance but she did declare bankruptcy at one point during my childhood.
Q.
Have you ever walked on a factory \xAC\x82oor?
A.
No. 
Q.
Have you ever held a job that caused something to hurt at the end of the day?
A.
I was a corporate strategy consultant for years. I know carpal tunnel doesn't count, but how about pain in my soul? Also, being black can sometimes be painful by the end of the day. Seriously, though, I did part-time landscaping, moving and janitoring (new verb!) during my school years.
Q.
Have you ever had a close friend who was an evangelical Christian?
A.
No. If you're an evangelical Christian and a friend of mine, I guess you just found out we were not "close." I do feel I should get points for having read the entire "Left Behind" series, however.
Q.
Do you now have a close friend with whom you have strong and wide-ranging political disagreements?
A.
Yes, thanks to Facebook.
Q.
Have you ever had a close friend who could seldom get better than Cs in high school even if he or she tried hard?
A.
No.
Q.
During the last month, have you voluntarily hung out with people who were smoking cigarettes?
A.
Yes, though I judged them heavily for it.
Q.
What military ranks do these \xAC\x81ve insignia represent?
A.
They all represent the ranks of people who can kick my butt.
Q.
Choose one. Who is Jimmie Johnson? Or: Have you ever purchased Avon products?
A.
I thought Jimmie Johnson was coach of the Dallas Cowboys, but that's Jimmy with a y. This dude drives Nascar, and I didn't know that. As for Avon, nope, but my mom was a very serious seller of Tupperware back in the day. I was forced to attend the parties.
Q.
Have you or your spouse ever bought a pickup truck?
A.
No. I live in New York. I won't be buying a car here. Ever.
Q.
During the last year, have you ever purchased domestic mass-market beer to stock your own fridge?
A.
No, no, no. It's taken me years to find a handful of beers I actually like. "Domestic mass-market" did not make the list.
Q.
During the last \xAC\x81ve years, have you or your spouse gone \xAC\x81shing?
A.
No, and stop asking about my spouse. I'm not married! By the way, I went fishing with my sister when I was a kid, and she lived in rural Pennsylvania.
Q.
How many times in the last year have you eaten at one of the following restaurant chains? Applebee's, Waf\xAC\x82e House, Denny's, IHOP, Chili's, Outback Steakhouse, Ruby Tuesday, T.G.I. Friday's, Ponderosa Steakhouse.
A.
Probably once at an IHOP and once at a T.G.I.F.
Q.
In secondary school, did you letter in anything?
A.
Track & Field. Swimming. Wrestling. Take THAT!
Q.
Have you ever attended a meeting of a Kiwanis Club or Rotary Club, or a meeting at a union local?
A.
No. "Clubs" that begin with the letter K make me nervous.
Q.
Have you ever participated in a parade not involving global warming, a war protest, or gay rights?
A.
I thought all parades were at least a little gay. I kid, I kid. I regularly attend the West Indian Day Parade in Brooklyn. I actually was a Boy Scout in the parade for the Inauguration of President George H. W. Bush. I had blocked that memory until taking this test. Now I'm scarred again.
Q.
Since leaving school, have you ever worn a uniform?
A.
No.
Q.
Have you ever ridden on a long-distance bus (e.g., Greyhound, Trailways) or hitchhiked for a trip of 50 miles or more?
A.
Chinatown. Bus. NYC to Boston and NYC to DC. Also, my mom and I hitched once. I just doubt it was for over 50 miles.
Q.
Which of the following movies have you seen (at a theater or on a DVD)? "Iron Man 2," "Inception," "Despicable Me," "Tron Legacy," "True Grit," "Clash of the Titans," "Grown Ups," "Little Fockers," "The King's Speech," "Shutter Island." 
A.
"Iron Man 2," "Inception," "Tron Legacy," "True Grit," "The King's Speech."
Q.
During the 2009-10 television season, how many of the following series did you watch regularly? "American Idol," "Undercover Boss," "The Big Bang Theory," "Grey's Anatomy," "Lost," "House," "Desperate Housewives," "Two and a Half Men," "The Of\xAC\x81ce," "Survivor."
A.
"Lost," and it consumed me. Part of me will be stuck forever on the Island.
Q.
Have you ever watched an Oprah, Dr. Phil, or Judge Judy show all the way through?
A.
Yes to Oprah and Dr. Phil.
Q.
What does the word Branson mean to you?
A.
As in Charles or Richard? Charles has the big mustache. Richard has the big ego. Oh wait, no I think that's Charles BRONson. You talking about Branson, Mo.? If not, is this some secret white knowledge you're holding back!? Now I have to know!!
According to Charles Murray's answer key, I scored 29 points. So what kind of white person does this make me? 
I just want to point out what a brilliant counter-marketing plan it is for Murray to release a book about white people during Black History Month. Sir, you can't even let us have these 29 days!? Clearly it's working. He placed higher than my own book, "How to Be Black," on the New York Times list. 
In an America and world increasingly populated, influenced and powered by nonwhites, focusing on white class identity may be a decreasingly relevant endeavor, but I'm now very curious to see what Murray's book has to offer. Maybe I can get more tips for my chapter "How to Be the Black Friend" or, if nothing else, some good insights for the revolution.

        
Book Review Podcast: Edward St. Aubyn Ends a Series With 'At Last'
        
Book Review Podcast: Michael Holroyd's 'Book of Secrets'
        
Book Review Podcast: The Real 'Downton Abbey' and the Feminism of Elizabeth Taylor
        
Graphic Books Best Sellers: Stan Lee Puts a Sci-Fi Twist on Shakespeare
        
Notable Authors Give Snail Mail a Boost

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); LITERATURE (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (73%); LIBRARIES (73%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (73%); NASCAR RACING (70%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (69%); ETHNICITY (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); BEER & ALE (55%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (50%) Baratunde Thurston; Book Review; Books; Charles Murray; Murray, Charles; Blacks; Books and Literature; Race and Ethnicity; Thurston, Baratunde; Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010 (Book); How to Be Black (Book); featured

PERSON: Murray, Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); THAILAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



416 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 27 words

HEADLINE: Swing State Economies

BYLINE: ECONOMIX EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: If weak state economies keep getting better -- which is not at all certain -- Republicans could be hurt in November, David Leonhardt notes on The Caucus. 

 BODY:
If weak state economies keep getting better -- which is not at all certain -- Republicans could be hurt in November, David Leonhardt notes on The Caucus. Read more 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



417 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: A Carbon Allowance in Every Pot

BYLINE: DYLAN WALSH


HIGHLIGHT: A researcher proposes that the distribution of personal carbon allowances and shorter working hours be embraced to reduce greenhouse gas emissions quickly and equitably. 

 BODY:
Imagine carbon allowances as a playground commodity, like the marbles and baseball cards of earlier generations.
That's a subset of an idea from Ian Gough, a researcher at the London School of Economics. Citing the failure of international climate change policy to achieve results, he proposed a different approach in a recent article, arguing that the distribution and trade of personal carbon allowances -- along with shorter working hours and higher taxes -- should be embraced to reduce greenhouse gas emissions quickly and equitably.
His proposal arises from the observation that, despite setting some of the world's most ambitious goals, Britain's current policy framework for reducing greenhouse gas emissions falls short of legally binding targets and will disproportionately affect the poor.

Britain has pledged to reduce its emissions to an amount that is 34 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, and 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. The country's absolute emissions have declined almost steadily since 1990, according to national measures.
But Dr. Gough emphasizes the fuzziness of such figures, which account only for greenhouse gases emitted within the country. The calculation is far higher - 50 percent higher for 2006 - when emissions generated elsewhere to enable British consumption are factored in. In other words, the nation is conveniently outsourcing many of its emissions.
He also reports that standard climate-change mitigation tools - efficiency measures, renewable energy standards and carbon markets - are likely to drive up costs for those with the fewest resources. "Any increase in the price of carbon will bear most heavily on low-income" households, Dr. Gough writes, reflecting a "contradiction between environmental sustainability and social justice goals."
He recommends personal carbon allowances as a first step toward addressing the problem. As unusual as the idea sounds, the British government considered the policy quite seriously in 2006. David Milliband, then environment secretary, led the initiative, announcing the need for "cumulative consistent radicalism" in the face of climate change. Two years later, the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs scrapped the plan as "an idea ahead of its time."
Dr. Gough suggests that the intervening years may well have brought about an economy-wide recognition that "carbon rights" should be allocated equally among all British citizens.
A reduction in working hours, also an unorthodox environmental policy, has been linked to improvements in environmental health. A survey of industrialized countries by Juliet Schor, a professor of sociology at Boston College, found that between 1970 and 2007, those with fewer working hours per year had significantly lower carbon footprints. Time-stressed families indulge in more carbon-intensive activities, like eating out, she wrote.
Working hours "is one of the most powerful levers for transformational change in a system, and also one of the most underappreciated," Dr. Schor said at a recent conference on the issue of work hours.
Dr. Gough said he hoped that his paper would serve as a "rallying call" acquainting people with the notion that emission cuts should neither be outsourced to other countries nor shouldered by the poorest households.

        
On Our Radar: Smog Grounds Flights in Beijing
        
A Challenge to Europe's Airline Emissions Curbs
        
European Commission Disputes Opinion on Biofuels Emissions
        
'Serious' Error Found in Carbon Savings for Biofuels
        
Documenting a Collapsing Ice Shelf

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); BASEBALL (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); FAMILY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (68%); DINING OUT TRENDS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) Britain; carbon allowances; climate change; emissions; Carbon Dioxide; Economic Conditions and Trends; Outsourcing; Working Hours; London School of Economics; Great Britain; Politics and Policy; Water Conservation; water quality; Water Quantity; Weather Extremes

ORGANIZATION: London School of Economics

PERSON: DAVID MILIBAND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



418 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2207 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES 
S.E.C. Reaches Settlement in Bear Stearns Fraud Case | The Securities and Exchange Commission has reached a settlement with two former Bear Stearns hedge fund managers that will avert a second trial over accusations that they had misled investors as the mortgage market was crumbling.
The deal, which is subject to court approval, could be announced on Monday, said two people with direct knowledge of the matter, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly.
A trial was set to begin on Monday in Federal District Court in Brooklyn. The former Bear executives, Ralph R. Cioffi and Matthew M. Tannin, were accused of lying to investors about the health of their hedge funds, which were laden with complex securities backed by subprime mortgages. 
DealBook 
Users of Citibank Bill-Pay App Charged Twice | A technical bug caused Citigroup, the nation's fourth-largest bank by deposits, to double the charge for customer payments in recent months. Some customers using their iPads to settle their cable bill or mortgage payment, for example, actually paid twice, according to customers and a bank official.
The problem, which began in July but went undetected by the bank until December, prompted bogus payments big and small. Some customers quickly spotted the redundant transaction and complained to Citi, while other consumers were caught off guard when the bank recently notified them of the discrepancy. The snag even led some unsuspecting customers to overdraw their accounts, though a bank spokesman said that was rare.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
For This College Sport, the Playing Field Is a Boardroom | At the first Wall Street Training Valuation Case Competition, 25 teams of elite business students and undergraduates competed to be top Wall Street deal makers.
DealBook 
Questions of 'Virility' in Europe | Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, attacked what he called "statements of virility" by banks who say it would be beneath them to borrow from the central bank, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Wall Street's New Drug of Choice | Lionel Bissoon, a doctor who specializes in treating men for testosterone deficiency, said that since the financial crisis he has had Wall Street executives and traders come to him with the hope of becoming alpha males, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Alibaba.com May Become Part of Deal With Yahoo | The Alibaba Group is working on a complex plan to buy back most of Yahoo's stake in the company, and using Alibaba.com could remove an additional complication.
DealBook 
Alibaba's Ma Faces Latest Challenge | Jack Ma, the Alibaba founder who is known to wear Mohawk wigs and kung-fu outfits at company parties, brings a blend of gumption and hopefulness to his company's deal with Yahoo, Reuters writes.
REUTERS
Judge to Weigh Halting El Paso Sale to Kinder Morgan | Leo E. Strine Jr., the chief chancellor of Delaware Court Chancery, says he will decide whether to block El Paso's $21.1 billion sale to Kinder Morgan by March 6, the date of a shareholder vote.
DealBook 
Rio Tinto Offers Cautionary Tale | The $8.9 billion write-down that Rio Tinto took on its Alcan aluminum unit shows the risks involved in mining deals, like the one between Glencore and Xstrata, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Diamond Foods Debacle May Crack Open a MAC | Procter & Gamble appears to have very good grounds to walk away from the sale of Pringles to Diamond Foods, the Deal Professor writes.
Deal Professor 
Ambition Cut Short at Diamond | Michael J. Mendes, who was ousted on Tuesday as the chief executive of Diamond Foods amid accounting concerns, created a series of deals as he sought to make the company a snack-food powerhouse, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
NYSE Euronext Profit Falls | The stock exchange company said fourth-quarter profit fell 19 percent to $110 million from $135 million a year earlier, after charges related to its failed deal with Deutsche Borse, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
NYSE Chief in the Spotlight | Duncan Niederauer, chief executive of NYSE Euronext, plans to outline a strategy for the company in the wake of the failed merger, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Samsung Life Hunts for Bargains | The Samsung Life Insurance Company, South Korea's largest insurer with $138 billion of assets, said it iwa looking for investment opportunities in distressed assets sold by European and American banks, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Oracle Embraces the Cloud With $1.9 Billion Taleo Deal | Oracle is acquiring Taleo, a maker of online human resources software, as it continues to expand its footprint in so-called cloud services.
DealBook 
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Barclays Caps Bonuses as Profit Falls | The British bank said on Friday that its profit fell last year as the economic climate deteriorated and that it might have to abandon its performance target for next year.
DealBook 
Goldman Held on to A.I.G. Mortgage Bonds | After buying risky mortgage bonds from the New York Fed, Goldman Sachs kept most of the face value, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bonus Deferral Helped Credit Suisse Profit | The Swiss bank pushed about $549 million of employee bonus costs into 2012 from 2011, allowing it to report a profit for the year, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Money Market Funds Buy French Bank Debt | American money market funds owned $8.6 billion of French banks' short-term paper in January, more than double their December holdings, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bank of America Executive Joins State Street | Dan McNicholas, who was Bank of America's head of financing sales in Asia-Pacific, is heading sales at State Street's prime brokerage group in the region, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
A Bond King at a Crossroad | Bill Gross, head of the bond giant Pimco, is at a crossroad, Reuters reports, after a bad year for the legendary manager's top fund and as regulators consider whether to designate his West Coast firm "too big to fail."
DealBook 
Gross Moves Back Into Treasuries | Bill Gross increased the percentage of United States government debt in Pimco's Total Return Fund to 38 percent in January from 30 percent in December, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Envisioning a More Transparent Buyout Industry | Privacy has long been a hallmark of private equity, but a roundtable of experts assembled by the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton discussed whether the industry would become more open in the future, The Wall Street Journal reports.
Timothy Hartnett, a partner in the transaction services practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers, said new regulations might lead to disclosures that recall "selling drugs under FDA guidelines."
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Pension Funds Growing Uneasy Over Private Equity | Public and private pension funds, which provide 42 percent of private equity's capital, seem to have taken the industry's negative publicity to heart, Bloomberg Businessweek writes.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Blackstone's Center Parcs Plans Bond Issue | Center Parcs, the Blackstone-owned company that operates a series of holiday villages in Britain, is planning a bond issue of 1 billion, or about $1.6 billion, as it looks to refinance debt, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Turkish Buyout Firm Raising $350 Million | Bosphera Advisory, based in Istanbul, is raising the money to invest in Turkey, and is in talks with eight potential companies, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
CVC Takeover Offer Rejected by Insurer | Phoenix, the British life insurer, ended talks with CVC Capital Partners after a disagreement over price, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Client Exits Fall to Record Low | As hedge funds bounced back in January, client exits were at the lowest level on record, according to the GlobeOp Capital Movement Index, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
European Bank Bet Is a Winner | Investors like David Tepper have been buying hybrid bonds of embattled European banks over the past year, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Och-Ziff Profit Plunges | The hedge fund said fourth-quarter profit fell 94 percent to $16.8 million from $303.1 million a year earlier, on lower performance fees, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Owl Creek Cuts Navistar Stake | Owl Creek Asset Management, a $7 billion hedge fund, said it held a 7 percent stake in the truck maker Navistar, down from 8.4 percent in December, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Bacon Hires His Brother | Louis Moore Bacon, founder of Moore Capital Management, hired his older brother, Zack Hampton Bacon III, as a managing director, Absolute Return + Alpha reports.
ABSOLUTE RETURN
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
LinkedIn Profit Jumps 30 Percent | The company said fourth-quarter net income rose to $6.9 million from $5.3 million a year earlier, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Facebook's Road to I.P.O. | As the company prepares to go public, regulators may scrutinize various aspects of its filing, including its definition of "active monthly users," Bloomberg Businessweek writes.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
DST Global's Deal With Facebook | DST Global, the investment firm founded by the Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, agreed to an extended lockup schedule for its Facebook shares in a contract from 2010.
DealBook 
Facebook's Marketing Strategy | The company plans to offer only about 5 percent to 7 percent of its shares to the public, creating a shortage of stock that would drive up the price, writes Allan Sloan in a column in Fortune.
FORTUNE
Zynga Teams Up With Hasbro | The online games company struck a deal with Hasbro, which will create physical games and toys based on games like "FarmVille," The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
FX Alliance Rises 14.5 Percent on Debut | The foreign-currency trading platform saw its stock close at $13.74, from an initial price of $12, Dow Jones Newswires reports.
DOW JONES
VENTURE CAPITAL 
V.C. Firm Reaps Nearly 200-Fold Return | Yozma Venture Capital, which in 2006 invested $1.5 million in Conduit, a publishing start-up, sold its stake to the private equity firm Silver Lake for $250 million, TechCrunch reports, citing an unnamed person with knowledge of the deal.
TECHCRUNCH
Consumer Demand Gives Alternative Energy a Lift | While some solar panel manufacturers have struggled, companies that team with banks to lease panels to homeowners are helping to revive the industry, Bloomberg Businessweek writes.
BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Google Breaking into Consumer Electronics | The search giant is developing a home entertainment device, The New York Times reports, citing unnamed people with knowledge of the company's plans.
NEW YORK TIMES
Early Google Employee Departs | Craig Silverstein, who was Google's third employee after Larry Page and Sergey Brin hired him, is going to work for the Khan Academy, the online learning organization, AllThingsD reports.
ALLTHINGSD
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Homeowners to See Bulk of Mortgage Deal Benefits | While a relatively small portion of American homeowners will receive aid from the $26 billion mortgage settlement struck this week, it is the broadest effort yet to help underwater borrowers, with about one million expected to have their debt reduced, and another 750,000 who lost their homes to receive $2,000 checks, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
A Win-Win Settlement? | Felix Salmon of Reuters writes in his blog that the mortgage deal can be thought of as "that rarest of settlements, one which really is a win for all sides."
REUTERS
Banks Before Greece in Debt Plan | While the fate of Greece remains uncertain in the bailout negotiation, Europe's banks are set to receive a fair measure of protection, writes Floyd Norris in The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
Central Banks Keep Rates Unchanged | The European Central Bank held its main interest rate steady on Thursday, as did the Bank of England, which also announced an expansion of its asset-purchase program, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Kodak to Exit Digital Camera Business | Eastman Kodak, which invented the digital camera, plans to stop selling the devices during the first half of this year, in a bid to cut costs, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Banks Said to Dismiss Workers in Rate Investigation | The Royal Bank of Scotland, Citigroup and Deutsche Bank have fired, put on leave or suspended employees in connection with an investigation into potential interest rate manipulation, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
House Passes Congressional Insider Trading Bill | The House of Representatives passed a bill to prevent members of Congress from trading based on privileged information, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Regulator to Focus on High-Frequency Traders | The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said it would start an advisory panel to look at super-fast computerized trading, the Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); MEN'S HEALTH (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); MARTIAL ARTS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (64%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (63%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (91%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (80%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%); ALIBABA.COM LTD (51%); ALIBABA GROUP HOLDING LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (51%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



419 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The 10-Car-Garage Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Saab's American subsidiary is auctioning its heritage collection, which consists of 10 cars, on Friday. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 Weeks after the holdings of the Saab Heritage Museum were sold for a reported $4.1 million, the Swedish automaker's North American subsidiary is scheduled to auction its heritage collection of 10 vehicles on Friday. The cars are to be offered as one lot, Hemmings reports, to prevent them from being scattered throughout the collector car world. Highlights include a 1956 Sonett Super Sport, one of six made, and a restored 1952 model 92 sedan, which evolved from the so-called Ursaab prototype of 1947. Interested parties are instructed by the Saab Club of North America to submit bids by noontime to McTevia & Associates, the firm retained by Saab Cars North America to work with its creditors. (Hemmings)
 BMW announced pricing Thursday for the 640i Gran Coupe sportback sedan, which is intended to compete with the Mercedes-Benz CLS, Audi A7 and Porsche Panamera. The sedan, at $76,895, is powered by the automaker's 3-liter TwinPower in-line 6-cylinder engine. Pricing for the 650i Gran Coupe, equipped with a 4.4-liter twin-turbo V-8, is to be announced closer to its sale date in midsummer. (BMW)
 Morgan, the niche British sports car manufacturer that intoduced its 3-Wheeler model at the 2011 Geneva auto show, said it would bring an electric-powered roadster to this year's show, where press previews are scheduled to begin March 6. The Morgan Plus E will be equipped with a manual transmission, a novel feature for an E.V., produced by Zytek, a British engineering firm. Production prospects for the E.V. roadster depend on the level of interest in evidence at the show. (Automotive News Europe)
 The Toyota Prius C, the third Prius-branded model from the automaker, will be priced from $19,710, inclusive of destination charge. The four-door hatchback hybrid received fuel-economy estimates from the Environmental Protection Agency of 53 miles per gallon in urban and 46 m.p.g. in highway driving. With four trim levels available, pricing for the Prius C tops out at roughly $24,000. Deliveries to American dealerships are scheduled to begin in March. (Toyota)
 This week, a House panel approved a bill to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency from mandating the adoption of E15, pending further study of the fuel. Critics of the fuel blend, which contains 15-percent biofuel composed primarily of corn-based ethanol, claim it could damage older engines. An earlier measure approved by Congress in December ended a tax subsidy for ethanol. Opponents of the House bill said further study of E15 was not needed, as the E.P.A. had previously approved its use for vehicles from the 2001 model year and later. (The Detroit News)

        
Wheelies: The Clash of the Teutons Edition
        
Toyota Introduces Compact Hybrid to Japanese Market
        
BMW 6 Series Gran Coupe: A Swept-Back Response to Audi A7 and Mercedes-Benz CLS
        
BMW and Toyota to Collaborate on Battery Development
        
Wheelies: The Codependency Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); SPORTS CARS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); HISTORY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (87%); BIOFUELS (87%); ETHANOL (87%); ALCOHOLS (86%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); APPROVALS (85%); LEGISLATION (84%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); BIOMASS (72%); ENGINEERING (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (60%) bmw; BMW 6 series; Environmental Protection Agency; Ethanol; Geneva Auto Show; Gran Coupe; morgan; Prius C; saab; Toyota; Automobiles; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Saab Automobile AB; Toyota Motor Corporation; Toyota Motor Corporation|TM|NYSE; Collectible Cars; Environment; Industry News; New Cars

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%) Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Environmental Protection Agency; Saab Automobile AB; Toyota Motor Corporation

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (91%); BMW (BIT) (91%) Toyota Motor Corporation; TM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



420 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Good Parent, Bad Parent

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Two economists suggest that wealth, rather than cultural mores, is the bigger determinant of successful parenthood. 

 BODY:
The Wall Street Journal is fond of publishing essays asserting one culture's superiority in the world parenting competition. First there was the "Tiger Mother" firestorm; more recently it's an article drawn from a book arguing that the French make better parents.
A couple of top-notch economists, however, suggest that wealth, rather than cultural mores, is the bigger determinant of successful parenthood.
In an essay written for the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Sendhil Mullainathan of Harvard and Saugato Datta of ideas42 argue that richer people are likely to make better parents. Why? Because "well-off people have the luxury of freedom of mind." By dodging the constant stresses of poverty, the wealthy have more bandwidth for rearing children.
The researchers write:
Good parenting requires psychic resources. Complex decisions must be made. Sacrifices must be made in the moment. This is hard for anyone, whatever their income: we all have limited reserves of self-control, and attention and other psychic resources ... 
Low-income parents ... face a tax on their psychic resources. Many things that are trifling and routine to the well-off give sleepless nights to those less fortunate ...
For the well-off, a broken-down car is little more than a temporary annoyance; if needed, they can "just take a cab." For those with less income, it necessitates real, meaningful trade-offs and painful sacrifices. If taking a cab becomes unavoidable, it may mean having to spend less on groceries. It may mean cutting back on the time spent with a child on account of having to work extra hours to make up for the unexpected expense. Equally, trying to avoid shelling out the cab fare may mean taking an extra couple of hours to get to work, with less time and energy left over for other things, not least supervising a child's schoolwork and keeping tabs on his social life.
Of course there are plenty of counterexamples of families where more money means more problems at home (e.g., approximately one-third of all "Law & Order" episodes).
But the authors here seem to be talking about the importance of having some bare minimum of resources in order to focus on the softer needs of being a good parent.
The policy implication, then, is that to make Americans better parents, we need to help them achieve greater economic security, whatever their cultural or ethnic background.

        
Lean on Me: Informal Safety Nets in Hard Times
        
Preferring Boys to Girls
        
The Different Costs of Motherhood
        
Delayed Child Rearing, More Stressful Lives
        
A More Nuanced Look at Poverty Numbers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PARENTING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); TRENDS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); ETHNICITY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); POVERTY RATES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (65%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (59%) behavioral economics; family economics; parents; Poverty; poverty trap; Saugato Datta; scarcity; Sendhil Mullainathan; social safety net; Economic Conditions and Trends; Parenting

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



421 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: At Lawyers' Luncheon, a Chilly Reception for Spotify's Chief

BYLINE: BY BEN SISARIO


HIGHLIGHT: A roomful of lawyers, many of whom represent artists worried about Spotify's royalty structure, was not the most sympathetic audience for the chief executive of the online streaming service. 

 BODY:
For the music industry's movers and shakers, the parties and symposiums leading up to the Grammy Awards on Sunday night are opportunities for schmoozing, back-patting and a bit of business. But for a struggling, shrinking industry there can also be some tension, particularly when it comes to the role of technology.
Daniel Ek, the moon-faced co-founder of Spotify, is for the most part the toast of Grammytown this year, turning up at private cocktail parties and meetings with business dons. On Thursday, his company got a bit of priceless publicity when President Obama's campaign staff released a Spotify playlist. And on Friday Mr. Ek was the keynote speaker at the Entertainment Law Initiative lunch, the annual gathering of the industry's most powerful lawyers, presented by the Grammy Foundation at the Beverly Hills Hotel.

But a roomful of lawyers, many of whom represent artists worried about Spotify's royalty structure -- paying fractions of pennies every time a song is streamed, much less than what iTunes pays for one download -- was not the most sympathetic audience. Josh Tyrangiel, the editor of Bloomberg Businessweek, who was interviewing Mr. Ek, alluded to this when he began his questioning: "I look forward to next year's lunch, where the Crips meet the Bloods."
Mr. Ek defended Spotify as a reliable generator of royalties and -- his longtime pitch to the industry -- a way to lure customers from the black market of illegal downloads. Spotify, like other subscription services, streams millions of songs to paying users, and also has a free version supported by advertising. 
"I want to be a friendly alternative," he said.
When introduced in the United States last July, Spotify had 1.6 million paying subscribers; by last month it was up to 3 million, and it continues to expand around the world. Mr. Ek said at the lunch that about 70 percent of Spotify's revenue goes "back to the industry," and that his company has paid $250 million in royalties since it opened in 2008. (At a press conference two months ago that figure was $150 million.) 
Mr. Ek also made a bold prediction, saying that in two years subscription services will pay as much royalties as iTunes does. In 2010, downloads generated $2.2 billion in the United States, according to the Recording Industry Association of America, and the vast majority of that money comes from iTunes. 
"What we're proving now is that this model works," he said.
The luncheon was held in honor of John Branca, the veteran music lawyer who is an executor of the estate of Michael Jackson. After joking that the shrinking of the music industry has made its lawyers the dinosaurs of the legal profession -- "this ceremony has more to do with paleontology than jurisprudence," he said -- Mr. Branca reminisced about representing Jackson, the Beach Boys, Mick Jagger, Aerosmith and others, and he mounted a defense of the role of lawyers in the ever more corporatized world of the music industry.
"While we are experiencing blatant consolidation in the channels of distribution in the music business, where an artist's manager, promoter, ticketing agency and merchandiser can be all under one corporate umbrella," Mr. Branca said, alluding to Live Nation Entertainment, which owns Ticketmaster and manages hundreds of artists, "we lawyers remain an independent voice in the life of the artist to protect and where necessary defend that artist."
He got a standing ovation.

        
As Ratings Rise, So Does Grammy's Ad Haul
        
Beach Boys to Join Maroon 5 and Foster the People on Grammys Stage
        
The Grammys: Does Anyone Stand a Chance Against Adele?
        
Chris Brown to Perform at the Grammys
        
With No Place at Grammys, Latin Jazz Artists Plan Their Own Concert

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); STREAMING MEDIA (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (64%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Grammy Awards; Grammys; Spotify; ArtsBeat; Music

COMPANY: SPOTIFY LTD (92%); THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



422 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: It Don't Mean A Thing If You Ain't Got Them Swings

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: But Obama may have what he needs. 

 BODY:
There's been an interesting back and forth between Ezra Klein and Ryan Avent over whether Obama has a problem in swing states, even if the national economy is doing a bit better. Overall, swing states have higher unemployment than the nation as a whole; but elections generally turn on the rate of change, not the level, and by that criterion things weren't clear.
Well, I couldn't resist some number crunching. I ranked states by the McCain margin in 2008, and decided to define the swing states as the range in that ranking from Missouri to New Mexico, on the general grounds that Obama ain't gonna take Montana, and despite our loud governor, I very much doubt that Romney can take New Jersey. And I took changes in the unemployment rate over the period Dec. 2010 - Dec. 2011 (January state numbers aren't in yet), then took an average weighted by electoral vote.
And the results are ... unimpressive. My "average" swing state had a 1.1 percentage point fall in unemployment, compared with a national fall of 0.9. No big difference.
But by normal political standards, either fall is enough to give Obama a decent chance. If the labor market continues to improve, there may be much howling in the GOP come November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



423 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: DealBook's Week in Review

BYLINE: ERIC OWLES


HIGHLIGHT: A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance. 

 BODY:
A look back on our reporting of the past week's highs and lows in finance.
Mergers & Acquisitions
 YAHOO'S SEARCH CONTINUES 

        
Four directors will not stand for re-election, giving Yahoo, which is under pressure from shareholders to improve returns, a fresh start to revive its fortunes, Michael J. de la Merced and Evelyn M. Rusli reported.
        
Alibaba.com's parent is said to weigh a buyback.
MINING MERGER, BUT SOME BALK Glencore International said it would buy the remaining stake in Xstrata that it did not already own. Mark Scott reported that the "long-anticipated deal that would create a mining giant with a market value of nearly $90 billion." But major investors in the mining company Xstrata were looking for Glencore, the largest commodities trading company in the world, to sweeten the offer.
ORACLE BUYS TALEO FOR $1.9 BILLION Once wary of Web-based applications, Oracle has now embraced the cloud. Evelyn M. Rusli reports that the acquisition of a maker of online human resources software "underscores the shift taking place in the enterprise software industry as more businesses turn to the Web to run their operations." 
Investment Banking
BLANKFEIN ON SAME-SEX MARRIAGE The Human Rights Campaign has recruited Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs to be its first national corporate spokesman for same-sex marriage, Susanne Craig reported.
EUROPE'S FINANCIAL CRISIS Mark Scott reports that as profits and sales slip, some European companies are scrambling to pay their bills, at a time when banks grow increasingly hesitant to lend.
FOURTH-QUARTER EARNINGS 

        
Net income at Lazard plummeted by 99 percent.
        
UBS profit dropped 76 percent on losses in its investment banking unit.
        
Credit Suisse posted a quarterly loss, its first in three years.
ERROR IN CITI'S DIGITAL ACCOUNTS Some customers using their iPads to settle their cable bill or mortgage payment actually paid twice, Ben Protess reported.
COLLEGE SPORTS IN THE BOARDROOM In a deal simulation contest that was equal parts "American Idol" and "Glengarry Glen Ross," Kevin Roose followed aspiring moguls who turned synergies into sport at the first Wall Street Training Valuation Case Competition.
Private Equity
FOURTH-QUARTER EARNINGS Kohlberg Kravis Roberts' profit dropped 68 percent.
I.P.O./Offerings
THE $1.6 BILLION WOMAN Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's No. 2 executive, considers herself a role model for women. But Nicole Perlroth and Claire Cain Miller report that her call isn't simply about mentoring and empowering; it's also a business strategy.
DEALBOOK COLUMN Andrew Ross Sorkin notes that "active users" add up in Facebook's prospectus, but some of those clicks aren't on the Web site.
Facebook counts as "active" users who go to its Web site or its mobile site. But it also counts an entire other category of people who don't click on facebook.com as "active users." According to the company, a user is considered active if he or she "took an action to share content or activity with his or her Facebook friends or connections via a third-party Web site that is integrated with Facebook." 
STRATEGIES Jeff Sommers notes that amid the Wall Street excitement over Facebook's planned initial public offering, it may be a good time to take a look at I.P.O. history.
We appear to be in an early stage in the I.P.O. cycle, says Jay Ritter, an I.P.O. expert at the University of Florida. Facebook's apparent valuation is frothy but "possibly justifiable," he said.
FOURTH-QUARTER EARNINGS Groupon posted a loss in its first earnings report since going public.
Legal/Regulatory
FAIR GAME An investor won an arbitration case over money lost in a complex security. But Gretchen Morgenson finds that he's still angry at financial institutions.
The Hayes case highlights this question: Exactly how did Wall Street price the loans that it bundled into securities and sold to investors?
$26 BILLION MORTGAGE PLAN In an effort to lift the housing market, government authorities and five banks agreed to a settlement that could provide help to nearly two million people, Nelson D. Schwartz and Shaila Dewan reported.

        
Years before the housing bust, a businessman set out to blow the whistle on the mortgage game. Ms. Morgenson reports that his warning went unheeded.
        
The talks gained momentum when California returned to the negotiating table after a four-month absence.
        
The scope of the agreement mostly covers loans held by the banks themselves.
MF GLOBAL INQUIRY Underpinning the misuse of customer money was a state of utter chaos at the firm, Azam Ahmed and Ben Protess reported, as the brokerage firm rushed to sell assets and unwind positions to stay afloat.
DEAL PROFESSOR Goldman Sachs appears to have done nothing improper in advising Kinder Morgan and the El Paso Corporation in a deal, but Steven M. Davidoff says that it raises questions about how investment banks do business.
The El Paso case will be the next test of how the Delaware court manages banker conflicts. Yet unless the court finds that Goldman or management deliberately steered this process toward Kinder Morgan, the plaintiffs will have a hard time winning.
REVOLVING DOOR 

        
Christopher L. Garcia, a federal prosecutor on insider trading cases, is leaving for the private sector.
        
Richard J. Holwell, the federal judge in Manhattan, is leaving the bench to hang up his own shingle.
BARNEYS WEIGHS RESTRUCTURING One of New York's temples of high fashion has hired restructuring advisers to help the retailer deal with $200 million in debt maturing this fall, Mr. de la Merced reported.
BIG BETS ON TROUBLED SECURITIES The Federal Reserve Bank of New York auctioned assets of the American International Group with a face value of $6.2 billion to Goldman Sachs, Kevin Roose reported.
FED DELAYS VOTE ON BANK TAKEOVER The Federal Reserve postponed its meeting to vote on Capital One's $9 billion takeover of ING Direct until Monday, Mr. Protess reported. 
THE TRADE When Sarbanes-Oxley was passed in 2002, it was attacked almost exactly like Dodd-Frank is today. But Jesse Eisinger of ProPublica says that for all the criticism, the law did help clean up American corporate accounting.
Today, there are certainly debates about stocks and their valuations - and some questionable accounting - but no company that finds itself under scrutiny now is anywhere near as large, respected or celebrated as those were then. 
SUBPRIME FRAUD CASE The S.E.C.'s deal with two former Bear Stearns hedge fund managers averts a second trial over charges that they had misled investors, Peter Lattman reported.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); WOMEN (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MINES & MINING (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CLOUD COMPUTING (73%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); COMMODITIES TRADING (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (68%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (67%); MARRIAGE (66%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (66%); EURO CRISIS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (62%); WEB SITES (61%) Top Headline 1; Week in Review

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL AG (72%); KKR & CO LP (63%); ALIBABA.COM LTD (57%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); GLEN (LSE) (72%); 0805 (HKSE) (72%); KKR (NYSE) (63%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (72%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: SHERYL SANDBERG (77%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



424 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Why Manufacturing Still Matters

BYLINE: LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's support for manufacturing was heartening, but he needs to do more to bolster this important sector and help train people to work in it, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
As one of a rare group of economists who believe that "manufacturing matters" for the health of the American economy, I was heartened to hear President Obama emphasize manufacturing in his State of the Union address. During the last two years, the manufacturing sector has led the economic recovery, expanding by about 10 percent and adding more than 300,000 jobs. 
Admittedly, this is a small number compared with overall private-sector job gains of 3.7 million during the same period, but it reverses the trend of declining manufacturing employment since the late 1990s. 
And promising signs are emerging that American companies are shifting some manufacturing production and employment back to the United States. Policies to strengthen the competitiveness of the United States as a location for manufacturing can strengthen these nascent developments. 
Though there are economists who do not share my heretical view, I believe that a strong manufacturing sector matters -- and deserves the attention of policy makers -- for several reasons.

First, economists agree that the United States must rebalance growth away from consumption and imports financed by foreign borrowing toward exports. 
Manufactured goods account for about 86 percent of merchandise exports from the United States and about 60 percent of exports of goods and services combined. Exports support more than one-quarter of manufacturing jobs in the United States. 
Even though service exports are becoming more important, the only way the United States can rebalance growth and make a significant dent in its trade deficit for the foreseeable future is by increasing exports of manufactured goods.
American manufacturing exports are becoming more attractive as a result of rising wages abroad, the decline in the dollar's value, increasing supply-chain coordination and transportation costs, and strong productivity growth in American manufacturing.
Germany and Japan, two high-wage countries, have maintained substantial shares of manufacturing in their economies, and are major exporters of manufactured goods to emerging market economies. Like manufacturing in these countries, manufacturing in the United States can win larger shares of global export markets with the right policies in place. 
Second, on average manufacturing jobs are high-productivity, high value-added jobs with good pay and benefits. Even though the premium on manufacturing wages has been declining over time, it remains significant. Between 2005 and 2010, average weekly earnings in manufacturing were about 21 percent higher than average weekly private non-agricultural earnings. In 2009, the average manufacturing worker earned $74,447 in annual pay and benefits compared with $63,122 for the average non-manufacturing worker. In that year, only about 9 percent of the work force was employed in manufacturing, down from about 13 percent in 2000. 
The fall in manufacturing employment during the 2000s was a major factor behind growing wage inequality and the polarization of job opportunities between the top and bottom of the wage and skill distribution, with a hollowing out of middle-income jobs. 
Even with continuing labor-saving automation, stronger growth in American manufacturing would mean more middle-income job opportunities for workers both in manufacturing itself and in the many domestic business services that support it. 
Third, manufacturing matters because of its substantial and disproportionate role in innovation. Few economists dispute the importance of innovation to the growth of living standards, but few acknowledge the strong links between innovation and manufacturing. 
A strong manufacturing sector supports the key building blocks of the nation's innovation ecosystem -- its skilled scientific, engineering and technical work force, its research and development, its ability to identify technical challenges and provide creative solutions. 
Although manufacturing is only about 11 percent of gross domestic product, it employs the majority of the nation's scientists and engineers, and it accounts for 68 percent of business R.&D. spending, which in turn accounts for about 70 percent of total R.&D. spending. 
American leadership in science and technology remains highly dependent on R.&D. investment by manufacturing companies, and the social returns to such investment are substantial, far exceeding the returns to the companies that fund it. 
Despite the offshoring of parts of the manufacturing supply chain, manufacturing companies in the United States continue to situate most of their R.&D. investment and research work force in the United States. 
American multinational companies that account for about 84 percent of all private-sector (non-bank) business R.&D. in the United States still place about 84 percent of their R.&D. activities in the United States, often in clusters around research universities, as Matthew Slaughter of Dartmouth calculated for our article, "Warning Sign From Global Companies," which will be published in The Harvard Business Review next month. 
But this share is gradually declining as American companies shift some of their R.&D. to Asia in response to rapidly growing markets, ample supplies of technical workers and engineers and generous subsidies. The number of foreign research workers employed by American multinational companies has more than doubled in the last decade. 
China and other emerging economies are actively building their R.&D. capabilities and aggressively competing for the R.&D. of American manufacturing companies. Meanwhile the attractiveness of the United States as a location for such activities is slipping because of shortages in the skilled scientific, engineering and technical labor force and restrictions on the number of immigrants with these skills. 
Congress's failure to extend and broaden the R.&D. tax credit, as President Obama has urged, is also encouraging companies in the United States to look to other countries offering far more generous R.&D. tax incentives. 
In his State of the Union speech, President Obama proposed several additional changes in business taxes to discourage the outsourcing of manufacturing jobs and to encourage their creation in the United States. 
A significant reduction in the corporate tax rate in the United States, which is the second highest among the developed countries, would be a much more powerful incentive to encourage American manufacturing production than these changes. Nor is it likely that they would have much effect on American manufacturing employment, because outsourcing has not been the major cause of manufacturing job losses. 
Between 2000 and 2011, American manufacturing employment declined by about 5.6 million while American manufacturing output, after contracting during the 2001-2 and 2008-9 recessions, expanded by about 1 percent. 
The contraction in employment occurred throughout the manufacturing sector not just in multinational companies that are often criticized for outsourcing jobs in pursuit of lower labor costs and taxes. The remarkable divergence between manufacturing output and employment reflects strong labor productivity growth, driven by labor-saving technological progress. This trend is likely to persist independent of changes in corporate taxation. 
The other policies President Obama is promoting to support manufacturing -- measures to increase high-school graduation rates; work-force training programs at community colleges; more support for basic research, infrastructure investment, and scientific, engineering and technical education; and immigration reform -- would benefit not just manufacturing but the entire economy. 
There is widespread support for such policies among economists, whatever their view of the role of manufacturing.

        
Jobs Deficit, Investment Deficit, Fiscal Deficit
        
The Outlook for China's Currency
        
The Logic of Cutting Corporate Taxes
        
Charles Duhigg Responds to Readers on Apple and the iEconomy
        
Some Good Economic News, but Will It Last?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%) Daily Economist; job training; Laura D'Andrea Tyson; manufacturing; Outsourcing; research and development; skilled workers; wages; z; Obama, Barack; Factories and Manufacturing; National Assn of Manufacturers; United States; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (84%) National Assn of Manufacturers

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



425 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: So the White House Didn't Cave on Birth Control, Right?

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: The administration is standing by the core principle of the contraceptive coverage rule, but I'm not clear on how the new "accommodation" will work. 

 BODY:
It's a law of politics that when you're losing the debate, you change it. So with the economy improving and President Obama rising in polls against his likely general election opponent, Mitt Romney, it's not surprising that the Republicans went looking for an inflammatory social issue. They came up with contraception, which apparently is really controversial even though 99 percent of women rely on it at some point in their lives.
I'm referring, of course, to the ridiculous brouhaha over the new health care rule mandating that businesses provide insurance coverage for birth control. The original version exempted religious institutions, like Catholic churches, but not religiously affiliated ones, like Catholic universities, that cater to the general public.

That concession wasn't good enough for the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. Along with such opportunists as House Speaker John Boehner and Rick Santorum, they claimed the president was disregarding the First Amendment and assaulting religious freedom. The idea was to paint Mr. Obama as irreligious, and to chip away at the health care reform law in the process. I guess they were unaware of the 1990 Supreme Court decision , which established that religious liberty doesn't trump an otherwise neutral law. As Justice Antonin Scalia, that notorious atheist, wrote: "To permit this would be to make the professed doctrines of religious belief superior to the law of the land, and in effect to permit every citizen to become a law unto himself."
The latest development is that, under intense pressure, the president today announced an accommodation, of sorts. He said that his administration was standing by the core principle of the rule, which was great news, especially since I'd observed the tell-tale signs of another Obama administration cave-in. "Women will still have access to free preventive care that includes contraceptive services - no matter where they work," he said.
But, he said, "if a woman's employer is a charity or a hospital that has a religious objection to providing contraceptive services as part of their health plan, the insurance company - not the hospital, not the charity - will be required to reach out and offer the woman contraceptive care free of charge, without co-pays and without hassles." (I feel obliged to point out that the concept of hassle-free insurance coverage is pretty hilarious, and that I don't see why women should have to jump through hoops because of their employers' religious views. Let's move on.)
Mr. Obama continued: "The result will be that religious organizations won't have to pay for these services, and no religious institution will have to provide these services directly. Let me repeat: These employers will not have to pay for, or provide, contraceptive services. But women who work at these institutions will have access to free contraceptive services, just like other women, and they'll no longer have to pay hundreds of dollars a year that could go towards paying the rent or buying groceries."
The Catholic Hospital Association, Catholics United and Planned Parenthood have already released statements in support of this needle-threading. But I'm still sort of confused about how this payment scheme will work.
Sarah Kiff pointed out on the Washington Post's Wonkblog today that "by one report's measure, it costs about $21.40 to add birth control, IUDs and other contraceptives to an insurance plan. Those costs may be offset by a reduction in pregnancies. But unless drug manufacturers decide to start handing out free contraceptives, the money to buy them will have to come from somewhere."
The White House's argument is that universal access to birth control will lower pregnancy rates (and costs) so much that it will all balance out, within a year. The idea, I guess, is that insurance companies won't charge more for packages that cover birth control.
I'm skeptical. That puts a lot of faith in the willingness of insurance companies to pass their savings along to their customers.
I'm also uncomfortable with the spectacle of the president and the rest of the government having to tie itself in knots to make the law of the land conform with a particular religious doctrine. What will they do if Jewish- or Muslim- or Protestant-affiliated organizations start asking for specially tailored loopholes?
And how is it that these big ideological brawls keep taking the White House by surprise? Laurie Goodstein reported in the Times today that the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops has been planning this battle for months. The administration seemed utterly unprepared for the "death panel" attack on the health care reform law, the debt limit debacle, Scott Brown's victory in Massachusetts, and now this.

        
Catholic Bishops Stamp Their Feet
        
It's Not About Religious Freedom
        
Stop Compromising
        
The President's Dance With the Campaign Finance Devil
        
Opinion Report: Taxing the Poor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CONTRACEPTION (92%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); WOMEN (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (75%); CHARITIES (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (70%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (53%); APPEALS (52%) Barack Obama; birth control; Catholic Church; contraceptives; health care reform; Birth Control and Family Planning; Roman Catholic Church

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (56%) Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); RICK SANTORUM (57%); ANTONIN SCALIA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



426 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Power vs. Natural Gas

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: One of the biggest risks the Southern Company faces in embarking on a big nuclear project is that natural gas will remain far more affordable. 

 BODY:
When critics say nuclear power is risky, they often mean the risk of an accident. But people in the nuclear industry say that the bigger threat is natural gas. 
To look like a smart move, the $14 billion nuclear project undertaken by Southern Company and its partners must meet several challenges, including actually completing the job for that figure, always a question in nuclear construction.
But for the 104 nuclear reactors now running in this country, and for many of the ones that have retired, the big issue has always been the price of electricity from competing sources. And generally, that comes down to a prediction about the future cost of natural gas, which usually sets the price of electricity on the grid in much of the United States.

The nuclear industry must also reckon with the prospect that in the 2020's or 2030's, that the United States will get more serious about limiting carbon dioxide emissions, which would be a plus for nuclear operators. Substituting gas for coal does reduce emissions, but there is still far too much carbon in natural gas to allow its widespread use if the electric system is to reduce its emissions by 80 percent by 2050. That was the national goal endorsed by President Obama when he ran for president in 2008. 
In fact, some electricity experts say that if the economy as a whole has to cut emissions by 80 percent, the electric sector will have shoulder even deeper reductions, given that other areas, like transportation, can probably manage less. 
If companies that burn gas had to pay a tax for the carbon dioxide produced, that would be as good for Vogtle 3 & 4, the two new reactors Southern is to build near Augusta, Ga., as an increase in the market price of gas would be. 
Southern itself has a big investment in gas. In a filing with the Georgia Public Service Commission, the company said that in 1989, about 7 percent of its capacity ran on gas, a proportion that has since risen to 37 percent. Without the two new reactors, it would rise to 49 percent by 2017.
The argument that a utility should diversify its energy mix is most conspicuously invoked these days in favor of wind power, which also has trouble competing with cheap natural gas right now but that, unlike gas, carries no risk of a rise in the energy cost. 
Thomas A. Fanning, Southern's chairman, told reporters on Thursday that the company was going to rely on wind, sun, gas, energy efficiency and "21st century coal'' (meaning cleaner coal-burning), a diversity he described as "all the arrows in the quiver." 
That echoes a theme in President Obama's State of the Union address last month, in which he called for many different kinds of energy production. (Yet he also called for more natural gas drilling.) 
Southern's enthusiasm for nuclear exceeds that of almost every other utility. 
John W. Rowe, the chairman of Exelon, the nation's biggest nuclear utility, had said that he would not build a new reactor at today's natural gas prices. Referring to the geologic formations from which natural gas is extracted, he said in a recent speech, "Shale is good for the country, bad for new nuclear development."
"There must be a shortage of natural gas and stable high prices to make the economics right, '' he said of nuclear power 
And the Union of Concerned Scientists, a group that is generally critical of nuclear energy, argues that new reactors will be more expensive than other "readily available alternatives, including energy efficiency, renewable energy and natural gas."

        
Disputed Reactor Design Moves Forward
        
Aid Sought for Nuclear Plants
        
Is a New Reactor Rust-Prone?
        
A Nuclear Milestone?
        
Thirsty Power Plants Threaten Watersheds, Study Finds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); WIND ENERGY (73%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%) Georgia; Natural Gas; nuclear power; Plant Vogtle; Southern Company; Obama, Barack; Rowe, John W; Electric Light and Power; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Nuclear Energy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Exelon Corporation; New York Times; Public Service Commission; Union of Concerned Scientists; United States; Exelon Corporation|EXC|NYSE; Business; Conventional Energy; Emissions Reduction; Fossil Fuels; Politics and Policy

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (84%) Exelon Corporation; New York Times; Public Service Commission; Union of Concerned Scientists

TICKER: SO (NYSE) (91%) Exelon Corporation; EXC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%); JOHN W ROWE (74%) Obama, Barack; Rowe, John W

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (77%) GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Georgia; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



427 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: States Sue E.P.A. Over Delayed Soot Rules

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO


HIGHLIGHT: Eleven states argue that drafting new rules is vital to public health. But the Obama administration faces pressure from Republican critics who say that tighter air pollution rules could hurt the economy. 

 BODY:
The Obama administration, already contending with a lawsuit from health and environmental groups arguing that ozone pollution standards are inadequate, now faces another suit over soot.
Eleven states, including New York and California, joined forces on Friday to sue the federal Environmental Protection Agency in Federal District Court in Manhattan over the agency's delays in tightening air quality standards involving fine particulate matter, or soot, from diesel trucks, buses, power plants and other sources. 
In New York City and other urban areas, health officials blame the pollution for increasing the risk of early death, heart attacks and emergency room visits from people with asthma and other illnesses.
Yet the Obama administration faces intense opposition to stricter air quality regulations from Republicans and industry critics who argue that they would drive up energy costs and hurt economic growth. When the E.P.A. postponed revising the soot standards last fall as part of a scheduled review under the federal Clean Air Act, the states decided to sue. The E.P.A. last revised the standards in 2006.

New rules are "vitally important to public health," the suit says. 
The states joining the legal action are New York, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Mexico, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington. 
"Clean air is a public right, and standards that protect it are a necessity," Eric T. Schneiderman, New York State's attorney general, said in a statement. "Every day, air pollution from soot risks the health of more than one-third of Americans, including our most vulnerable -- children, the elderly and the sick. These risks are simply unacceptable."
In a statement, the E.P.A. said it was "continuing to work" on proposing new standards.

        
On Our Radar: Capsized Ship Stirs Environmental Worries
        
Evaluating Feedback on Fracking Rules
        
E.P.A. Limits Coal-Plant Emissions
        
Lung Association Ads Fault House Panel Chairman
        
Republican Moves to Strip Funds for Chesapeake Bay Cleanup

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (96%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); AIR POLLUTION (92%); PARTICULATE MATTER (91%); LITIGATION (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); LAND RECLAMATION (73%); ASTHMA (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HEART DISEASE (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%) Environmental Protection Agency; lawsuits; New York State; particulates; pollution; soot; Schneiderman, Eric T; Air Pollution; Clean Air Act; Suits and Litigation; Republican Party; California; Connecticut; Manhattan (NYC); Maryland; Massachusetts; New Mexico; New York City; Rhode Island; United States; Vermont; Washington (State); Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%) Environmental Protection Agency; Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Schneiderman, Eric T

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) California; Connecticut; Manhattan (NYC); Maryland; Massachusetts; New Mexico; New York City; New York State; Rhode Island; United States; Vermont; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



428 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Swing State Economies: Weak but Improving

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: If weak state economies keep getting better -- which is not at all certain -- Republicans could be hurt in November. 

 BODY:
Ryan Avent has an eye-opening poston The Economist's Free Exchange blog, noting that the economy is improving more rapidly in swing states than in the rest of the country.
Swing state economies remain weaker than the national economy, as The Timesand others have noted. But most political scientists and political experts believe that the economy's direction matters more than its level. So the weakness in the swing states may not end up helping the Republicans as much as seems at first glance - so long as the economy keeps improving, which is no sure thing.
Mr. Avent writes:
Manufacturing states, which suffered very heavily in the downturn but bounced back relatively quickly, feature prominently on the list. And it's interesting that some of the largest and most electorally important swing states - including Ohio and Florida -- have seen large drops in the unemployment rate both over all and in just the past 12 months. That's important; the political science literature suggests that it is the change in key economic variables in the 9 to 12 months prior to an election that is most impactful.
As the chart with the post makes clear, the economy is improving in the Midwest (including Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin), Virginia and North Carolina. Things aren't much better in the Sun Belt (including Florida, Nevada and New Mexico), which continues to suffer from the housing bust.
In a separate post, at The Atlantic, Derek Thompson notes that the swing-state improvement may not enormously help President Obama, because voters makes judgements on the national economy. The larger point is that swing-state economies may not be the drag on Mr. Obama's campaign that their unemployment rates, taken in isolation, suggest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); TRENDS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



429 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Winning Over His Own

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney vies for favor with conservative leaders, Rick Santorum adjusts to being the front-runner and Congress heads for a battle over new ethics rules. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:

        
Hoping to dispel concerns over his losses on Tuesday and his more moderate past, Mitt Romney met with conservative leaders on Thursday. But many of those who have expressed reservations about his candidacy were absent, highlighting the challenge Mr. Romney faces in winning them over, Michael D. Shear and Erik Eckholm report.

        
Rick Santorum is handling his emergence at the front of the Republican pack in a curious way: by acting not like an upstart or underdog but like a front-runner. He has neither the organization nor the money of a typical presidential front-runner, though, Manny Fernandez reports.

        
The House overwhelming passed a bill Thursday to ban insider trading among lawmakers and impose new ethics rules, just one week after the Senate overwhelmingly approved similar legislation. But what the vote tallies mask are the deep disagreements between the two chambers over the details that will have to be resolved, Robert Pear reports.

        
The Pentagon announced Thursday it will allow women to serve in crucial and dangerous military jobs closer to the front lines of war, taking a small step that largely formalizes existing arrangements - but stopping short of officially permitting women to serve in combat, Elisabeth Bumiller reports.

        
Negotiations over extending a payroll tax cut are not going well, and the tax break and unemployment benefits are at risk, Congressional Republicans said Thursday. Insisting that Democrats are not serious about making a deal, Republicans said the benefits could expire at the end of the month, Jennifer Steinhauer reports.

        
Newt Gingrich may be known as the candidate of big ideas, but he might also be called the candidate of everyday facts. During campaign stops and debates, Mr. Gingrich has used his knowledge about things like cane sugar and Brazilian Portuguese to impress voters and beat back challenges, Trip Gabriel writes.
Washington Happenings:

        
On Friday, President Obama will sign into law the Ultralight Aircraft Smuggling Prevention Act of 2012, the last piece of legislation sponsored and voted on by former Representative Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona. She and her husband, Mark Kelly, will be present, along with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

        
Mitt Romney, Rick Santorum, Newt Gingrich and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin are scheduled to speak Friday as the annual convention of the Conservative Political Action Conference continues.

        
The Treasury Department releases the federal budget for January at 2 p.m. on Friday.

        
The Early Word: Decision Time
        
The Early Word: Money Wars
        
The Weekend Word: More Jobs, More Risks
        
The Early Word: Think Small
        
The Early Word: Flow

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ETHICS (88%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); BUDGETS (75%); APPROVALS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); INSIDER TRADING (54%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); RICK SANTORUM (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (77%); JOE BIDEN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); SCOTT WALKER (56%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



430 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: From 'Change' Candidate to Changed Candidate

BYLINE: RICHARD W. STEVENSON


HIGHLIGHT: If circumstances and his own political skill allowed President Obama to run in 2008 as something other than an ordinary politician, this time around he faces all the challenges, and carries much of the baggage, of any other standard-issue Democrat. 

 BODY:
2:55 p.m. | Updated "One of the things about being president," President Obama said the other day during an interview with NBC News, "is that you get better as time goes on."
Whether he has gotten better is a judgment voters can make in November. But as his handling of two controversial decisions this week showed, there is little doubt that he is different, changed by three years in the White House in ways that speak to fundamental questions about him among both his supporters and his critics.
If Mr. Obama was naive back when he began his presidential run five years ago Friday, as many Republicans asserted during the 2008 campaign, he is a lot less so now. If he aspired to post-partisanship when he took the oath of office, as many of his admirers hoped, he is much more openly combative and political now. If he thought then that he could change how Washington works - a proposition viewed skeptically, to say the least, by many experienced people in both parties -- he has opted, for now, to play by its existing rules.
If circumstances and his own political skill allowed him to run in 2008 as something other than an ordinary politician, this time around he faces all the challenges, and carries much of the baggage, of any other standard-issue Democrat. To the degree that he and his team ever fully bought into the image they created of him as a transformational figure, it has given way to a practical focus on holding together a center-left coalition that can get them to 270 electoral votes. 
"In my religion we call it a baptism of fire," said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, referring to how Mr. Obama's experience over the last few years has made him less inclined to give Republicans the benefit of the doubt and more pragmatic about what is within reach.
"Every presidential candidate, whether running the first time or for re-election, is a person of aspiration," Mr. Durbin said. "Then they are going to face reality, and the desperation of achieving what is possible."
The most recent manifestations of Mr. Obama's more prosaic approach came this week with his shift in course on a key element of his campaign fundraising and his handling of the backlash against his policy on insurance coverage for contraception.
In the first case, he abandoned his long-held position against steering his campaign contributors to friendly "super PACs," the outside groups whose vast expenditures on negative advertising are reshaping politics. Faced with the choice of running for re-election armed with the principle or armed with potentially millions more dollars to help offset the current Republican advantage in the super PAC wars, he set aside the principle, prompting quiet cheers from party operatives and expressions of outrage from advocates of tighter campaign finance controls.
The decision was only the latest in which Mr. Obama has displayed a new willingness to confront Republicans much more aggressively, following his ill-fated effort last year to reach a bipartisan agreement on deficit reduction - by all accounts a turning point in his views.
At this stage, the White House is happy to be perceived as going around, under or through Republicans to get what it wants.
Last month the president swatted aside pointed threats from Republicans on Capitol Hill and made four recess appointments, including the chief of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
He has shown little inclination to compromise with Republicans over his demand for further extension of the payroll-tax holiday. He is hitting hard on themes of inequality and striking a clear populist note in his campaign appearances.
"He has been sobered by the reality of his political opposition," Mr. Durbin said.
But if his more confrontational style has been welcomed by other Democrats on the ballot this year, it carries risks as well. He still does not fit neatly into an ideological box, but he is facing greater challenges in holding the party together -- witness the White House's efforts over the last few days to find a path through the politics of its decision to require institutions with religious affiliations to offer health coverage that pays for contraception.
Mr. Obama finally acted on Friday after centrist Democrats like Senators Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and Robert P. Casey Jr. of Pennsylvania broke with him on the issue and Republican presidential candidates used it to make a case that the White House is anti-religion. The White House said it made no substantive compromise, and it brought liberal groups along with the decision, but the speed with which it responded to the uproar demonstrated how attuned Mr. Obama has become to potential electoral trouble.
And the administration has shown signs of internal strains on other issues with the potential to divide left and center, from the pace of withdrawal from Afghanistan to the rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline.
At the same time, Mr. Obama is still searching for a compelling narrative for his re-election in the post-Hope and Change era. He has tried somewhat subtler versions of "It Would Have Been Worse Without Me," "By Comparison to the Other Guys I Look Pretty Good" and "Change Takes More Than One Term." As he put it in the NBC interview, "It turns out that our founders designed a system that makes it more difficult to bring about change than I would like sometimes."
For the moment at least, his chances appear to be improving. A Washington Post-ABC News poll this week found Mr. Obama running slightly ahead of Mitt Romney on a national basis.
But his opportunity to rally the nation in a big way is no doubt more limited than it was four years ago, when voters could project onto him almost anything they wanted to.
He can no longer claim to float above the partisan fray. He has a record. And where he could once shape his fate by reaching for poetry in his own words, he is now hostage to a large extent to monthly job-creation and unemployment numbers churned out by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Whether those get better will go a long way toward determining whether voters decide he has gotten better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (76%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%); RELIGION (63%); CONTRACEPTION (50%) Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; On Politics

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



431 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Santorum Says Pragmatism Would Lead to a 'Hollow Victory'

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Rick Santorum takes aim against the Republican front-runner, Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
Rick Santorum on Friday told conservatives not to listen to those who urge pragmatism in choosing a presidential nominee, saying that to do so would lead to a "hollow victory" against President Obama in November.
His comments at the Conservative Political Action Conference were directly aimed at Mitt Romney, who is seeking to convince conservatives to coalesce around his candidacy as the best hope to win back the White House.
But Mr. Santorum derided that message as one that provides false hope to Republicans and would fail to provide the kind of leadership that can undo the nation's problems. 
He said that in the past "we listened to the voices who said we had to abandon our principles and our values to get things done, to win. We hear those same voices today. We need to compromise, do what's politically reasonable."
"I think we have learned our lesson," Mr. Santorum said to raucous applause. "We will no longer abandon and apologize for the principles that made this country great for a hollow victory in November."
Mr. Santorum, who defeated Mr. Romney in all three presidential contests on Tuesday, received a boisterous reception at the conservative conference, where thousands of activists were gathered.
He pledged a conservative vision for the country that includes an economic plan to revive manufacturing and create jobs. And he promised an administration that would mirror the values of the people gathered in the hall.
And he hammered Mr. Obama for policies that have undermined the country's future and the liberty of its citizens. He cited the president's recent decision requiring access to free birth control as an example.
"It's not about contraception," he said. It's about economic liberty. It's about freedom of speech, It's about freedom of liberty. It's about government control of your lives and it's got to stop."
Mr. Santorum also criticized his rivals - though not by name - as holding what he characterized as moderate positions that would not offer the kind of contrast with Mr. Obama that conservative voters would find compelling.
He suggested that Mr. Romney had been the architect of a "government run" health care system and would be "someone who would simply give that issue away in the fall."
"Why would an undecided voter vote for a moderate candidate who the party isn't excited about?" he asked.
 The Romney campaign responded, calling Mr. Santorum a creature of Washington. 
"Senator Santorum conveniently left out of his speech the fact that he is an ardent defender of earmarks, joined with the big-spending establishment in Washington to vote five times to raise the debt ceiling and sided with big labor by opposing right to work legislation," said Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, in an e-mail. " There are a lot of questions about his record that are still left unanswered."

        
In Colorado, a Struggle Between Pragmatism and Passion
        
As Rivals Blast Romney, Santorum Offers Milder Criticism
        
Rick Perry Jokes About Chrysler's Super Bowl Ad. The Punch Line: Obama.
        
Bachmann Assails Obama Before Conservatives
        
Romney Holds a Policy Round Table, but Attendees Must Raise $10,000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (68%); HEALTH CARE (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); JOB CREATION (65%); CONTRACEPTION (63%); RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (50%) cpac; romney; Santorum; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Conservative Political Action Conference; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Conservative Political Action Conference

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (93%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



432 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Romney Makes His Case in Maine, Touting His New England Roots

BYLINE: MURRAY CARPENTER


HIGHLIGHT: A day before the caucus results are announced, Mitt Romney swings through Maine. 

 BODY:
PORTLAND, Me. -- A day before the results of the Maine caucuses are to be announced, Mitt Romney, holding a town hall-style meeting here on Friday, touted his conservative politics - and his New England bona fides.
Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, mentioned his house on the waterfront on Lake Winnipesaukee in New Hampshire. "We sure enjoy the lakes here, and enjoy being with New Englanders. It's good to be back with you this evening."
Mr. Romney talked about his brand of conservatism, and the economy. "These are tough times for America," he said. "This president has failed us."
The crowd was enthusiastic, interrupting him frequently with applause. And Mr. Romney, looking casual in faded jeans, a navy V-neck sweater and brown loafers, appeared comfortable.
But the audience also asked about some of his more controversial statements and revelations. The first question came from a young man asking about Mr. Romney's recent comment that he was not concerned about the very poor.
"The poor have a safety net, and I want to make sure that's kept in place," Mr. Romney responded. "The wealthy in America are doing just fine. But I'm very concerned about all the people who are not doing just fine, and who don't have a safety net. Middle-income families have fallen into poverty under this president."
Another voter asked if it was patriotic for Mr. Romney to stash his money away in the Cayman Islands. The candidate responded that he did not manage his money, which is in a blind trust. "I pay all the taxes I'm required to pay under the law, and by the way, not a dollar more."
Throughout the evening, Mr. Romney was interrupted by several outbursts from hecklers, one shouting, "No fracking." At least one young woman was escorted from the room by a Portland police officer.
After the event, Ann Roberts of Alfred, Me., said she liked what she saw. "I am so impressed with him," she said. "He is head and shoulder above Gingrich and Romney. I want him to make the United States as successful as he's made himself and his family." Ms. Roberts said she planned to vote in Alfred on Saturday.
Joanne Hartford, a retired art teacher from Portland who planned to vote for Mr. Romney, bought a campaign button on her way out. "I've always loved him," she said. "He's wholesome and kind and fair."
Susan Flaherty of Cumberland was more pragmatic. "I want them to nominate an electable person," she said. "That's what I want, because I am very unhappy about what's going on." But she said she would not be voting in the caucus.
Michael Quatrano, executive director of the Maine Republican Party, said the party would announce the winner of the Maine caucuses Saturday night in Portland, when 85 of 91 caucuses will have been held over the last week.
Mr. Quatrano said the party tried to consolidate the caucuses this year. He said they used to be "salt and peppered" over the first two and a half months of the year. The change in schedule forced some caucuses in rural areas to consolidate in a central location. "It forced a lot of people to travel, and a lot of people couldn't make it. That might have negated a little bit of turnout."
Mr. Quatrano said other factors could affect turnout, which was about 5,500 in 2008. "Now you've got to factor all in the intensity and the attention that's going on right now, and then, on top of that, you've got to factor in we're supposed to get a snowstorm tomorrow, anywhere from 2 to 4 inches to 10 inches -- or no snow -- across the state. There are so many factors now. I was thinking maybe 5,000 to 6,000, but it depends on this storm now."
Outside the meeting, a raucous and enthusiastic crowd of Ron Paul supporters handed out leaflets. On Saturday morning, both candidates will attend the same caucus in the southern Maine town of Sanford, less than an hour apart.

        
As Maine Goes ... ?
        
The Early Word: Next Up, New Hampshire
        
The Early Word: It's Showtime
        
The Early Word: Iowa Heat
        
2008: In Iowa and Florida

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%) caucus; Maine; mitt romney; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (93%) NORTHEAST USA (94%); MAINE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%) Maine

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



433 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CRIME SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: In a Mailbox: A Shared Gun, Just for the Asking

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON. 
Twitter: @mwilsonnyt

 BODY:
Shanell Crute and her boyfriend were walking toward East 163rd Street in the Bronx to buy marijuana that night. With two blocks to go, they stopped when a group of five guys called out to her. The men had been drinking and smoking.
Ms. Crute's nickname was Sweetz because she was quite friendly, but that night, Sept. 30, 2010, she gave as good as she got for the last minutes of her 26-year-long life. 
''She says, 'I might know these guys,' '' said Lt. James Ruane of the 44th Precinct detective squad. ''She gets into a bit of an argument with them when she figures out she doesn't know these guys. Somebody said, 'Get the Waka Flocka.' ''
Two men broke off, crossed East 161st Street, entered the lobby of an apartment building, approached the bank of 207 mailboxes and opened one.
Waka Flocka is the name of a rapper. But to these men, the phrase described something else.
The community gun.
Hidden and shared by a small group of people who use them when needed, and are always sure to return them, such guns appear to be rising in number in New York, according to the police. It is unclear why. The economy? Times are tough -- not everyone can afford a gun. ''The gangs are younger, and their resources are less,'' said Ed Talty, an assistant district attorney in the Bronx.
Or perhaps it's not that there are more communal guns, but rather, that they are easier to identify through forensic science.
''We get a lot more ballistic matches than we ever have before,'' Lieutenant Ruane said. ''It's amazing. You go, how the hell did that match up to that shooting? It's a different command, a different borough, Brooklyn or something.''
The two men who opened the Bronx mailbox may have been momentarily surprised by what they found inside -- nothing. But they simply went to another hiding spot in the building, in a bag under the stairs, the police said. The building was routinely referred to as ''Vietnam,'' a name coined during more violent times in the 1980s.
There was the gun.
The two men emerged from the apartments on East 161st Street, and one of them, Solomon Corbett, 23, raised the gun and ended the argument with Ms. Crute by shooting her in the head and chest, the police said. He later told the police that he felt threatened by her boyfriend and intended to shoot him, but missed. That he hit her nine times seems to have weakened his case for self-defense.
Mr. Corbett has pleaded not guilty and is awaiting trial. The gun was never found. It may have been thrown away, or it may be stashed somewhere else, because when it comes to community guns, hiding holes abound.
''Wheel wells,'' Mr. Talty said. ''The bottom of a light pole.''
''Garbage pails are a big one,'' said Capt. Richard Dee, with the Police Department's Gang Division. ''A hallway radiator.''
''Behind some bushes or under a building,'' said State Senator Malcolm A. Smith, who has visited the scenes of shootings in his Queens district that were linked to community guns. ''Somewhere where you can essentially borrow it for an hour if you need to use it.''
The police believe that a community gun is now in play in a series of gang-related shootings in East New York, Brooklyn, between the Rock Starz and their colorfully named rivals, the Very Crispy Gangsters.
Sharing guns predates the Wild West, but the sophistication of maintaining today's community gun can be striking.
''You call it a community gun, so that name has to be able to market itself,'' Senator Smith said. ''You have a business model behind this concept, a schedule, which is a shame. If they used that intellect for something positive, who knows how successful that person could be?''
Sometimes the hiding place is human. ''One guy will hold the gun down,'' Captain Dee said. ''They call him the 'holster.' Often, it's a female. Someone who is above suspicion.''
This was the case, prosecutors said, in the 2011 arrests of several members of the 137th Street Crew, which sold crack in Harlem. One defendant, Afrika Owes, was the girlfriend of the gang's leader, Jaquan Layne, and she visited him in jail at Rikers Island. Their conversations were recorded. They referred to times when Ms. Owes ''was carrying the big old nine,'' according to the indictment brought by the Manhattan district attorney. The 9-millimeter pistol ''was part of defendant Africa Owes's life,'' the indictment states.
She told her boyfriend it was heavy.
E-mail: crimescene@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A communal gun was stored in one of these mailboxes in a Bronx building, the police say. Such hiding holes abound. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (87%); FORENSICS (75%); CANNABIS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



434 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: When Cars Meet Politics, A Clash

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
''Good morning to you all,'' Chrysler's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, began as he made a surprise appearance last Sunday morning before 700 Chrysler dealers at the annual meeting of the National Automobile Dealers Association. ''Although it wasn't planned, I decided to stay overnight here in Las Vegas to greet you personally.''
But there was another reason, he said: to show the dealers a preview of a commercial that would be broadcast that evening during halftime of the Super Bowl. ''Those who have lived through difficulties and have seen the dark days of desperation,'' Mr. Marchionne continued, ''know that the only way to get through them is by finding the values that are important in life; rediscovering a sense of belonging to a project, a community, a nation; embracing hope; looking ahead; and taking your destiny into your own hands. 
''If Chrysler -- a company that was practically sentenced to death by the press, the financial world and the public at large -- was able to do it, then there's hope for everyone. There's always a light at the end of the tunnel and there's always a way to get there. We don't presume to teach anything or show the right way ahead. We are just one example among many. Our message to the United States is one that comes from people who feel a duty to encourage the country they love.''
The lights faded and a man's dark silhouette walked onto a giant screen as an ominous rumble swelled on the sound system. ''It's halftime in America, too,'' intoned a familiar resonant voice. ''People are out of work and they're hurting.'' Only in the closing moments did Clint Eastwood's face fill the screen. ''Detroit's showing us it can be done,'' he said as the music swelled. ''This country can't be knocked down with one punch. We get right back up again and when we do, the world's going to hear the roar of our engines. Yeah. It's halftime, America. And our second half is about to begin.''
''Nothing more needs to be said,'' Mr. Marchionne concluded.
Overcome by emotion, he bowed his head and turned his back to the audience, according to those present, and there was a moment of stunned silence. It was the first time anyone had seen the video outside a closely guarded circle. Then the dealers rose and started applauding, an ovation that went on for several minutes.
Mr. Marchionne ''cried, and then he left the room,'' recalled David Kelleher, president of the Chrysler National Dealer Council and of David Dodge Chrysler Jeep in Glen Mills, Pa. ''We were all crying, crying and applauding at the same time. We were blown away. We knew what he was talking about. We'd all been through hell and back. No one was more publicly flogged than we were. We were failing. And here we are. We're making money.''
Later that day, ''Halftime in America'' was seen by an estimated 111 million viewers. Chrysler had seemingly done the impossible: to surpass its acclaimed 2011 Super Bowl commercial, which starred the hip-hop artist Eminem and introduced the memorable tag line ''Imported From Detroit.'' Coincidentally, the Clint Eastwood spot was broadcast just two days after a report that the unemployment rate fell by two-tenths of a percentage point, to 8.3 percent, buttressing Chrysler's message that the American economy can bounce back.
Not everyone reacted like the Chrysler dealers. The combination of the strong jobs report and comparisons between the inspirational commercial and Ronald Reagan's stirring 1984 ''Morning in America'' campaign seems to have touched some raw nerves. ''I was frankly offended by it,'' Karl Rove told Fox News on Monday. He then lambasted the rescue of Chrysler and General Motors and insinuated that the ad demonstrated that Chrysler executives ''feel they need to do something to repay their political patrons.''
But the $80 billion lent to the two companies came from the administrations of both President George W. Bush and President Obama. And as it happened, Mr. Bush, whom Mr. Rove served in the White House, was addressing the auto dealers in Las Vegas the same day that Mr. Rove took to the airwaves. ''I'd do it again,'' the former president said of his decision to bail out the auto industry. ''I didn't want there to be 21 percent unemployment.''
Chrysler executives were incensed by Mr. Rove's remarks. ''The former spokesperson was attacking not only a short video, but the essence of the bailout of Chrysler and G.M. while his former boss, the former president, was saying exactly the opposite,'' a Chrysler spokesman, Gualberto Ranieri, pointed out to me.
Just as Mr. Rove was thrust into the awkward position of criticizing both his former boss and Mr. Eastwood, an 81-year-old national icon (who told The Los Angeles Times last fall that he couldn't recall ever having voted for a Democrat for president), candidates of either party who strap their campaigns to the weakness of the national economy run the risk of looking as if they are rooting for high unemployment and economic hardship.
This year that role falls to Republican candidates, but Democrats tried a similar tactic in running against Ronald Reagan in 1984 (which backfired) and George H. W. Bush in 1992 (which worked). Mitt Romney has made President Obama's stewardship of the economy a centerpiece of his presidential campaign. As soon as the monthly job report was released last Friday, one of his advisers, the Harvard economist Gregory Mankiw, wrote in a blog post that the news increased the probability of Mr. Obama's re-election by a full 2 percentage points. Mr. Romney himself said: ''We welcome the fact that jobs were created and unemployment declined. Unfortunately, these numbers cannot hide the fact that President Obama's policies have prevented a true economic recovery. We can do better.''
Just a few months ago, the weak economy seemed likely to doom Mr. Obama's re-election chances. In October, Goldman Sachs's chief economist placed the likelihood of another recession in the United States at 40 percent and warned that unemployment in 2012 could hit 9.5 percent. But economies can turn when experts and pundits least expect it, as seems to have started to happen last fall. And once they do, they tend to gain momentum for months.
''Taken at face value, it's a very positive number,'' Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody's Analytics, told me. ''I think it's too early to say that we're off and running, or that the coast is clear, but it feels very good. I speak to clients and it feels like a light switch is going on. They're profitable; they've got strong balance sheets. Can they hire? They could have before now, but they lacked the confidence. Now they feel good. It feels like this is evolving into a sustained expansion.''
If Mr. Kelleher, the Chrysler dealer, is any indication, Mr. Zandi may be right. Mr. Kelleher said his dealership was reduced to 38 employees at the low point of the recession. Now it has 61, and he's looking to hire more. ''I'm at the epicenter of customer sentiment,'' Mr. Kelleher said. ''I'm on the showroom floor every day. I can tell from the traffic. I can tell when people feel like spending. I never bought into the double dip. We over-worried about Europe. We just got these great employment numbers. People have jobs, and they want to spend their money.''
Predictably, Democrats have been taking credit for the strengthening recovery, and part of what annoyed Mr. Rove was that an Obama campaign adviser, David Axelrod, instantly called the Chrysler ad ''very powerful'' in a Twitter message. Taking credit can also be risky if the economy turns again, but Mr. Zandi says he believes the administration deserves some credit.
''No one policy effort ever makes or breaks the economy, but the totality makes a big difference over time,'' he said. ''It's fair to say that a very aggressive response by the Federal Reserve, by the Treasury, and by both the Bush and Obama administrations during the panic and great recession has made the difference. It's a matter of great debate, but without that response we'd be in a measurably worse place. The real debate should be about how we're going to achieve fiscal sustainability. That's the next big thing.''
Mr. Kelleher is a Republican, but said he wasn't especially political and was dumbfounded by attacks on ''Halftime in America.''
''My customers loved it,'' Mr. Kelleher said. ''I've heard from a chorus of people. They filled up my Facebook page. They thought it was monumental. The American people will see this ad for what it is and they're going to rally behind an American icon that was scarred and down and now it's risen again.''
Mr. Kelleher said his fellow dealers, Republicans and Democrats alike, were so angered by criticism of the ad that he convened an emergency meeting of the dealers' council this week and, for only the second time in his memory, the council issued a public statement on behalf of Chrysler's 2,300 dealers. The video ''was designed to relate to those still suffering the effects of the recession, that they may be buoyed by our example and they may find the courage to endure through to similar success going forward.'' the dealers said. ''We have no doubt that this ad had no political agenda of any kind but rather a statement of fact and hope for the future for all of us and America.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A scene from Chrysler''s ''Halftime in America'' Super Bowl commercial, which was criticized in some quarters as political.
 Sergio Marchionne unveiled the commercial to Chrysler dealers before the game last weekend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



435 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Italy's Prime Minister Offers Praise for Greece and Optimism About Euro Zone

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy said Friday that Greece's government had made a ''remarkable effort'' to reach new austerity agreements with lenders to avoid a calamitous default, and that he did not believe that Greece would withdraw from the 17-nation group of European countries that use the euro currency, as some economists have forecast. 
In a meeting with editors of The New York Times, Mr. Monti also said he believed that the euro zone would survive, in part because it was in the interests of Germany, its biggest and strongest member, to ensure such an outcome.
Mr. Monti, a prominent economist who is not a career politician, was recruited in November to help prevent Italy, the European Union's third-largest economy, from falling into the same feared spiral of economic austerity and possible default that has afflicted the economy of Greece.
The crisis in Greece, where Prime Minister Lucas Papademos was facing new political turmoil on Friday over the demands of foreign lenders, has chronically raised fears of contagion in the other struggling economies of the euro zone, most notably Italy, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and, increasingly, France.
''I think Greece has made a remarkable effort,'' Mr. Monti said. But he also acknowledged that Greece had not yet fully complied with the terms set out by the so-called troika -- the International Monetary Fund, European Central Bank and European Commission -- and he expressed concern ''that the domestic political agreement on what has been presented is still shaky.''
As Greece has lurched from one financial crisis to the next over the past few years, speculation has intensified that it will quit the single-currency system, which by definition does not allow for unilateral currency devaluations to stimulate economic growth. But there is fear that if the Greeks were to withdraw from the euro zone, other weak members might do the same and cause the entire system to collapse, setting off an economic crisis that would extend far beyond Europe.
''I don't believe they will exit the euro,'' Mr. Monti said of Greece. In the highly unlikely event of such an outcome, he said, ''there would be extremely strong political policy and political responses to prevent any such phenomenon to go beyond Greece.''
The main force for euro-zone unity, Mr. Monti said, comes from Germany, which had enormous economic interests at stake and would suffer hugely if other members regained ''the freedom of competitive devaluations.''
Mr. Monti, whose visit to the United States included talks on Thursday with President Obama, has moved aggressively in the past three months to trim costs and achieve a balanced budget next year. His efforts have helped reduce borrowing costs that had surged to such alarming levels last fall that they forced the resignation of his longstanding predecessor, Silvio Berlusconi.
But Italy has also fallen into a recession, and Mr. Monti has sought to combat it with a package of changes, including the investment of more than $7 billion in infrastructure spending and the loosening of the country's rigid protectionist practices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); ITALY (95%); GREECE (94%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



436 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Sudans' Oil Feud Risks Shattering a Fragile Peace

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
KHARTOUM, Sudan -- Sudan and the breakaway nation of South Sudan have been locked in an exceedingly dangerous game of brinkmanship over billions of gallons of oil, seizing tankers, shutting down wells and imperiling the tenuous, American-backed peace that has held -- just barely -- between the two countries after decades of war.
Not for years have north-south relations been so poisonous, with a proxy war between the two nations fueling rebel groups and sometimes even flaring into direct Sudan-South Sudan clashes. The jagged, disputed frontier separating Sudan from its newly independent neighbor is now probably the most incendiary fault line in Africa, with two big armies that fought each other for generations massing on either side. 
After emergency talks to prevent a full-fledged conflict, the two sides agreed to a vague nonaggression pact late on Friday, yielding to intense pressure from the African Union, the United States and China -- a major oil partner for both sides -- to move beyond the language and tactics of mutual destruction. But few analysts see any easy solutions to the heated push and pull over oil, and it is not clear how the nonaggression pact will be any different from previous security deals that have led nowhere. In May, the two sides agreed to demilitarize the contested border. But just days after that, Sudan began heavy bombardment along the border, occasionally dropping bombs in the south, while the South Sudanese rushed in weapons to rebel allies fighting just across the divide.
The border area has been a tinderbox for years because that is where most of the oil lies. Both sides desperately need oil to run their governments, feed their people and stamp out spreading rebellions. And theoretically, both sides need each other. The conundrum of the two Sudans is that 75 percent of the oil is in the south, just across the border, but the pipeline to export it runs through the north. Because of this, oil was once thought to be the glue that would hold the two nations together and prevent a conflict. Now, it seems, oil is becoming the fuse.
When South Sudan broke off from Sudan last year, after years of guerrilla struggle, its independence was heralded as the triumphal capstone ending one of Africa's deadliest civil wars. But the question of how exactly the two sides would share oil profits loomed ominously over the separation, unresolved. Now that both nations are struggling to make it on their own, the issue has proved to be as prickly -- and perilous -- as many feared.
It was South Sudanese oil that drove Sudan's economic boom of the past decade and made the repression by Sudan's Islamist government (which is still heavily penalized by the United States) tolerable to many Sudanese. When South Sudan declared independence, it took oil worth billions of dollars with it, gutting Sudan's economy and creating one of the deepest crises that President Omar Hassan al-Bashir has faced in his more than 20 years in power.
Mr. Bashir is now battling high inflation, a shrinking economy, student protests and several simultaneous rebellions -- in Darfur, the Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile State -- as well as genocide charges related to the massacres several years ago in Darfur, and stiff American sanctions.
At the same time, South Sudan, one of the world's poorest countries, is facing a major food crisis and heavily armed ethnically based militias that have been sweeping parts of the countryside, killing hundreds and making a mockery of the South Sudanese security forces.
Stoking the tensions, Sudan and South Sudan have been covertly backing rebels in each other's backyards, leading to border clashes and relentless aerial bombings. The more than 1,000-mile border between them is now effectively closed, with millions of pounds of emergency food and just about all trade held up in a two-way stranglehold.
Before the emergency accord on Friday, the situation was so precarious that many saw only violent outcomes. ''I, personally, expect full-fledged war,'' said Mariam al-Sadiq al-Mahdi, a leading opposition politician in Khartoum, Sudan's capital. ''This is like the previews before a film.''
In the fight over oil, the south has refused to turn over royalties for using Sudan's pipelines. Sudan upped the ante in late December by seizing oil tankers filled with South Sudanese crude. Then the south took the drastic step of abruptly shutting down all of its oil wells, a measure that could quickly bring the economies of both north and south to their knees. South Sudanese officials have admitted they are using their oil to squeeze Khartoum to make concessions on all sorts of issues, including the disputed area of Abyei, insisting that oil production, about 350,000 barrels a day, will resume only after ''all the deals are signed.''
The south has even threatened to sit on its oil for years while it builds an alternative pipeline through Kenya. But it is not clear how the new country will survive that long; oil provides about 98 percent of government revenue. And experts question whether the Kenya pipeline is even feasible. It would have to run uphill, requiring many expensive pumping stations, and most likely slice across Jonglei, a South Sudanese state that, with all its militias, is essentially a war zone.
In Khartoum, many people are still struggling to swallow the fact that the south is gone. Nobody likes the new map of Sudan. It used to be Africa's biggest country. Now it looks as if it has been crudely amputated, left with the ragged edges of a raw wound.
''I still can't get used to it,'' said Nada Gerais, a sales manager in Khartoum. ''It looks, looks ...,'' she struggled for the right word. ''Weird.''
Mrs. Gerais is a perfect example of the nose dive Sudan's economy has taken. She works in a meticulously polished Nissan dealership that used to sell 50 cars a month. Now, sometimes, it is down to five. She is thinking of switching to pharmaceuticals or food.
''People can stop buying cars, but they can't stop eating,'' she explained.
During the past decade, Sudan's oil wealth helped build factories, roads and countless shish kebab joints, and it fueled plans for a futuristic minicity, a new airport and a reconfiguring of Khartoum to include a breezy promenade along the Nile.
But now high-rise buildings stand half-finished, and the plummeting value of the Sudanese pound has pushed electronics, books and even tomatoes out of reach for many.
Officials in Khartoum say the south owes them nearly $1 billion in pipeline fees, money needed to keep their economy from collapsing, and they recently sold some of the oil from the seized tankers before releasing them. South Sudan's president, Salva Kiir, said the amount Khartoum wanted, $32 per barrel, was ''exorbitant'' and ''completely out of international norms.''
Sabir M. Hassan, a Sudanese government negotiator, said that the north was willing to be flexible, but that the southerners were ''too emotional'' and still saw themselves as rebels.
''If you give them two choices, they'll choose the one that hurts the north, not the one that helps the south,'' Mr. Hassan said.
South Sudanese leaders say the same about Khartoum, which has blockaded roads leading south and recently held up humanitarian shipments, all to punish the south at the cost of millions of dollars in lost business.
Many political analysts wonder whether Mr. Bashir will be able to survive these crises. But it is hard to see who would replace him.
Sudan's political opposition is deeply divided and run by white-bearded septuagenarians. The rebel movements do not have much support in Khartoum. Sudanese students started an Arab Spring-like movement last year, but they failed to gain any traction. The security forces were quick to arrest protesters and string them up from ceiling fans.
And Sudan has a resilience that transcends the turmoil. Every Friday, in a dusty ring on Khartoum's outskirts, hundreds of Nuban men gather to watch traditional wrestling. Ethnic Nubans are leading the rebellion in the Nuba Mountains. But there is little evidence of that here.
''Things are fine,'' said one elderly spectator.
Just as he was about to elaborate, a young wrestler scooped up his opponent and body-slammed him in the dirt.
''You see that!'' the old man hollered. ''My God, I love this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oil wealth once fed an economic boom in Khartoum, Sudan's capital, which now suffers from the loss of oil from the south.
 Unfinished buildings are signs of Sudan's shrinking economy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SVEN TORFINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



437 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: In Sharp Trade Drop, Hint of Slowing China

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
BEIJING (AP) -- China's trade recorded its biggest decline in January since the 2008 global economic crisis, the nation's customs bureau said Friday, in a new sign of weak global demand and a slowing domestic economy. 
Exports fell 0.5 percent from a year earlier to $149.9 billion, while imports were down 15 percent at $122.7 billion, the agency said. China's politically sensitive global trade surplus tripled compared with a year earlier to $27.3 billion.
Analysts expected January trade to fall because of the Lunar New Year, the country's most important holiday. Chinese exporters rushed out orders in December and then shut down for two weeks or more in January.
But the import decline was sharper than expected, suggesting that even with the holiday factored in, the nation's economy, the second-largest in the world after the United States, is slowing markedly. China is a major buyer of iron ore, oil and other commodities and industrial components, meaning any downturn could hurt suppliers like Australia, Brazil and South Africa.
The Lunar New Year falls at different times during January or February each year, distorting trade figures. Analysts usually group the two months together and have said they will not have a clear picture until March.
China's export growth has declined steadily as Europe's debt problems and high unemployment in the United States hurt demand for goods. But January was the first outright contraction compared with a year earlier since 2008.
Import growth has weakened as Beijing tightened lending curbs to cool an overheated economy. As foreign orders decreased, export industries also bought less imported raw materials and components.
In December, import growth fell to 11.8 percent from November's 22.1 percent while export growth declined to 13.4 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHINESE NEW YEAR (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



438 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Across the Country, Looking for the Recovery

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA; Jess Bidgood contributed reporting from Leominster, Mass.; Isolde Raftery from Seattle; and Steven Yaccino from Belvidere, Ill.

 BODY:
MORENO VALLEY, Calif. -- Tell people here that the economy is getting better and they look quizzical. Perhaps the numbers say so, but they can hardly see it in their own lives.
A decade ago, this was a place where the middle class came to nurture its dreams -- buying a house, enrolling children in a decent public school and shopping at any one of the dozens of malls dotting the landscape. But the bust hit hard here. This city -- and the towns that surround it in Riverside County -- became an emblem of the housing foreclosure crisis with one of the highest unemployment rates in the state.
The numbers are improving now, though. The foreclosures have subsided. Unemployment has fallen to 14.4 percent last month from 17 percent in 2010. But still, it is hard to detect a sense of optimism. 
Instead, a feeling of frustrated hope could be heard in dozens of interviews here and in other towns like it across the country -- in north-central Massachusetts, Belvidere, Ill., and Seattle. Each place has its own signs of an improving economy -- a few new construction sites, even a batch of job openings. And heaven knows, people want to be optimistic. But most of them, for the most part, are not feeling it yet.
''I don't see anybody doing anything for our country or our situation that is making much of a difference,'' said Mark Bouldin, 36, who once made a decent living here in the suburban sprawl about 60 miles east of Los Angeles, working construction, renovating homes and doing small repairs. ''I've looked for work every single day, and there's just nothing.''
In 2009, with work drying up, he closed shop. Now, he is in school to become a minister at his church. The only thing that keeps him going, he said, is a belief in God. ''Everybody is fighting for the little scraps of whatever they can get,'' he said.
Even in places where fresh jobs have sprouted, some stubborn gloom persists.
Take Belvidere, an old manufacturing town not far from the Wisconsin border, where unemployment had reached 17.4 percent, among the highest in Illinois. The Chrysler assembly plant in Belvidere announced this month that it would hire 1,800 workers by summer to support the production of a new model. One local newspaper said it was ''the biggest and best news we've had in the Rock River Valley in years, perhaps ever.''
Today the factory employs more than 2,700 people, up from just 200 when the company emerged from bankruptcy in 2009. People are flowing in from all over the region -- the company said it had to stop accepting applications after more than 7,500 were submitted for the new positions.
Donald Hardt, 60, has been out of work since August, when he was laid off by a machine products supplier in Wisconsin because of downsizing. On Wednesday, Mr. Hardt was at the Chrysler plant to fill out an application.
But other than Chrysler's good news, there are not many signs of improvement in the area.
''I've been looking every day since August,'' Mr. Hardt said. ''I've been seeing minimum-wage jobs, but you can't make a living on minimum wage.''
In so many ways, the sluggish economy permanently changed people's lives and attitudes.
Holly Kiluk, 47, has become used to the seasonal ebbs of her husband's job as an asphalt worker and feels her family is ''one of the few that are getting by,'' in her town of Ashby, Mass., near the New Hampshire line northwest of Boston. She has made it work in part by bargain hunting. She buys men's sweatshirts that can perform double duty -- she shares them with her grandson who lives with her. And when gas prices rose, she moved her five children to a school closer to home.
Ms. Kiluk's daughter, Katie, said that few of her friends have found well-paying jobs, and many have joined the military instead. And few of those returning from Iraq have landed a job.
For the most part, Ms. Kiluk blames President Obama for the economic stagnation. ''I don't think he's helped us. I think he picked up a mess and made it bigger,'' she said, adding that she was particularly disappointed by the stimulus. ''It was all a gimmick, all a farce.''
Still, she has little faith in the Republican Party, either.
''Every candidate wants to cut this, cut that,'' she said. ''There isn't anything I agree with, with the people running now. I wish it were different.''
For many of those interviewed, politics seemed almost beside the point. While some faulted the president, others felt he had not gotten enough credit for improving the sluggish economy, even if those improvements have yet to trickle down to their own lives. Even those who hope to elect a Republican to the White House this fall say they doubt much will change.
''I don't know who to blame and I don't know if it much matters,'' said Kim Barron, 48, of Moreno Valley.
Ms. Barron and her husband once made a living buying and fixing up used cars. But two years ago the work vanished and it got too expensive to gas up the cars. Lately, her only work has come with occasional odd jobs. ''I pray and look for work every day, but I just don't see it coming to me or anyone I know.''
She encourages her daughter to move to Colorado, where her sister has been able to keep a steady job in a medical office.
''Maybe things are better anywhere else outside of here,'' she said.
In Seattle, things have been a bit better for Kevin Long, who calls himself ''fallout of the great recession.'' After working as an executive for Washington Mutual for years, he lost his job soon after Chase took over the bank.
Mr. Long was unemployed for a year, but with plenty of savings he viewed the time as ''terrific,'' as he spent more time with his children.
Mr. Long was a self-proclaimed soccer dad when he found a job as the executive director of Seattle United, a nonprofit youth soccer club.
''I feel that things are starting to turn a corner,'' he said, but he had a difficult time pinpointing the evidence. ''I don't know if it's tangible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MARK BOULDIN: California: With no construction work, studying to be a minister at 36 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 HOLLY KILUK: Massachusetts: At 47, helping her family get by with bargain hunting (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); CHILDREN (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); SUBURBS (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (65%); NEW CAR MODELS (64%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



439 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: New Rules for Guest Workers Are Issued by the Labor Dept.

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
The Labor Department on Friday unveiled rules that reshape a program for foreign migrants in work other than agriculture, which officials said would strengthen protections for those workers and also spur recruitment of Americans for such jobs. It was the latest move in a protracted battle between employers and the Obama administration over the nation's temporary guest workers.
The extensive rules -- 575 pages long -- make important changes across the program, which is known as H-2B. The changes were hailed by advocates for guest workers, who said they would make it more difficult for businesses to exploit vulnerable foreign migrants and hire them to undercut Americans. 
But reflecting the divisions over the program, employers who use it regularly said the new rules, which will take effect April 23, would make the process too slow and cumbersome for their seasonal businesses and would ultimately lead to the loss of American jobs.
''This is another log in the road to derail the whole industry here,'' said Jack Brooks, a crab processor from the Chesapeake Bay in Maryland who is a member of a group of employers in the H-2B program, the Coalition to Save America's Seafood Industry. ''If you take the seafood people away, tens of thousands of American jobs are at risk,'' Mr. Brooks said.
The H-2B program has long been used by many kinds of seasonal, mostly small, businesses, including seafood fishermen and processors, amusement parks and hotels and landscapers.
Under the new rules, the Labor Department will create a nationwide electronic registry where employers must post all jobs they are seeking to fill with H-2B workers. Also, the recruitment period of Americans is expanded, requiring employers to hire any qualified local worker who applies up to three weeks before the start of an H-2B contract.
The Labor Department also ended a labor market certification process that allowed employers to simply assert that they had searched for American workers. Now employers will have to consult formally with State Workforce Agencies to demonstrate that they could not find Americans for the jobs.
Employers will be required to pay a guest worker's transportation costs from the home country after the migrant completes half of the contract period. Employers will also have to pay for the trip home when the worker finishes the job or is dismissed early, as well as all visa fees.
For the first time, employers will be required to pay foreign workers for three-quarters of the period of a contract, even if there is no work for the migrants to perform. This provision was greeted by employers with particular alarm.
The rules will ''ensure that the program is used as intended by making these jobs more accessible to U.S. workers and providing stronger protections for every worker,'' Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis said in a statement.
''Over all, we think these rules are a huge step forward,'' said Jennifer J. Rosenbaum, the legal director of the National Guestworker Alliance, which is based in New Orleans. ''They remove incentives to try to get around hiring an unemployed American by hiring exploitable guest workers instead.'' She pointed to new provisions ensuring that migrants can raise complaints and consult with unions over work conditions without retaliation from employers.
The rules sharpened the different perceptions between Labor Department officials and H-2B employers over the availability of Americans for the jobs they are offering, which involve low-wage, often strenuous work.
''We would love to have it like we had it back in the 1960s and 1970s when we had all the American workers we could get,'' said Mr. Brooks, the crab processor. ''Now our search for American workers is never-ending. At the end of the day we can't find local workers.''
The rules bar foreign recruiters from charging fees to workers who will come to the United States under the H-2B program. The Labor Department is seeking to eliminate foreign recruiters who saddle migrants with debts before they arrive in the United States, which workers struggle to pay off on their wages here.
Last year, employers won one round in the H-2B fight by appealing to Congress about a separate set of Labor Department rules on wages in the program. Employers, who argued they would be forced to more than double wages, persuaded Congress to pass an amendment that blocked them from taking effect at least until October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



440 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The Politics Of Keystone, Take 2

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
Here's the question on the table today: Can a person support the Keystone XL oil pipeline and still believe that global warming poses a serious threat?
To my mind, the answer is yes. The crude oil from the tar sands of Alberta, which the pipeline would transport to American refineries on the Gulf Coast, simply will not bring about global warming apocalypse. The seemingly inexorable rise in greenhouse gas emissions is the result of deeply ingrained human habits, which will not change if the pipeline is ultimately blocked. The benefits of the oil we stand to get from Canada, via Keystone, far outweigh the environmental risks.
When I tried to make that case on Tuesday, however, I was cast as a global warming ''denier.'' Joe Romm, who edits the Climate Progress blog, said that I had joined ''the climate ignorati.'' Robert Redford -- yes, that Robert Redford -- denounced my column in The Huffington Post. ''Let's put the rhetoric aside, and simply focus on the facts,'' he wrote. 
Yes, let's. In particular, let's focus on two issues that have become the cornerstone of the opposition to Keystone. The first is that the crude from the tar sands is, in Redford's words, ''the dirtiest oil on the planet'' -- so dirty, in fact, that it will dramatically increase greenhouse gas emissions and greatly exacerbate the growing threat of global warming.
There is no question that oil from the tar sands will increase greenhouse gases. But by how much? According to a study by IHS Cera, a leading energy research firm, the oil from the tar sands emits only 6 percent more greenhouse gases than other, lighter forms of oil. (Environmental groups have tried to poke holes in the study, but even they don't come up with the kind of increase that would doom the planet.) What's more, there is plenty of oil being produced today with the same greenhouse gas consequences as the oil from the tar sands. As Michael Levi, an energy expert at the Council on Foreign Relations, says, ''The argument you hear is that because it increases greenhouse gas emissions, we shouldn't tolerate it. Well, so do the lights in my house. You have to be discriminating.''
The second argument is that the tar sands oil won't help the United States because it is all headed for export. This is perhaps the silliest argument of all. Right now, most of the big refineries on the Gulf Coast export around 20 percent of their refined product. Why? Because every barrel of crude oil is converted partly to diesel and partly to gasoline -- and the rest of the world is far more reliant on diesel fuel than we are. The gasoline remains in the United States. Keystone wouldn't change that equation one bit. Normally, one wouldn't have to point out that exporting high-value products is good for the country. But, of course, improving our trade balance is irrelevant when you're facing the apocalypse.
You want to know another little secret about the tar sands? It's already coming here, thanks to existing pipelines -- and it is already doing us a great deal of good. The influx of Canadian oil is partly why our imports from OPEC are at their lowest level in nearly a decade. And because the crude from Canada is selling at a steep discount to Saudi Arabian crude, it is stabilizing the price at the pump.
Somewhat to my surprise, the most reasoned Keystone opponent I spoke to this week was Bill McKibben, who led the protests against it. Although the tar sands ranks as ''the second biggest pool of carbon in the world,'' he told me, ''Keystone, by itself, won't make or break the environment.''
Rather, he said, he and other environmentalists had decided to draw this particular line in the sand because stopping Keystone would help accelerate what he described as the difficult transition from a fossil fuel economy to a new, brighter world based on renewable sources of energy. ''The most sensible way to go about dealing with global warming is one pipeline at a time,'' he said. ''These kinds of fights are extremely important because they are the way the message gets out that we need to change.''
Maybe -- just maybe -- stopping the Keystone pipeline would be worth it if it really was going to change our behavior and help usher in the age of renewable energy. It would, indeed, be worth turning our backs on oil that we badly need and that is already making our country more secure and prosperous.
But let's be honest. It's not going to change anyone's behavior. If Keystone is ultimately blocked, the far more likely result is that everyone who opposed it will get to feel good about themselves while still commuting to work, alone, in their S.U.V.'s.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); OIL SANDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); ENERGY RESEARCH (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



441 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: A Recovery With Business Stepping Out in Front

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris blogs on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
THE economic recovery that has followed the end of the 2007-9 recession may be properly named the private enterprise bounce. While the overall recovery is comparable to recoveries after the two previous recessions, this one has been pushed higher by rising private investment and hiring, and held back by cuts in government spending and hiring. 
Over all, the economy has grown a little more slowly, as measured by gross domestic product, than it did during comparable periods of the two previous recoveries. Preliminary figures for the fourth quarter of 2011 show the economy 6.2 percent larger than it was when the downturn ended, against 7.3 percent gains after the two previous downturns.
As reflected in the accompanying charts, the most impressive increase has come in the area of private investment, not including housing. It took a few quarters for businesses to begin to invest, as usual, but then the money poured in. That last report shows the level of investment is now 17 percent higher than it was at the end of the downturn. Neither of the previous recoveries did as well during the first 10 quarters of recovery.
But the government sector of the economy, adjusted for inflation, is nearly 3 percent smaller than it was when the economy hit bottom. By contrast, government spending had little impact on the recovery that began in 1991 but was a major part of the recovery that began in 2001.
Similar patterns can be seen in total employment in the United States. In each recovery, hiring was slow to start. This recovery so far has outpaced the 2001 recovery, but not the earlier one. That is largely because state and local governments have been reducing their work forces.
The current recovery followed a much more severe downturn than the earlier ones, and the nature of the latest recession continues to impede the recovery in several ways. Spending on personal consumption -- the largest part of the economy -- is rising less rapidly than in previous downturns, no doubt related both to the high level of unemployment and to the decline in home prices, which has reduced the availability of credit for many.
In previous recoveries, spending on housing construction was an important contributor to growth. By this stage of the previous two downturns, spending on residential investment was up more than half from the level at the end of the recession. Now, it is substantially unchanged. The housing industry is no longer a drag on the economy, but neither is it contributing to the recovery.
A money manager, James W. Paulsen of Wells Capital Management, argues that the similarity of this recovery to the previous ones suggests that 2012, like 1994 and 2004, is what he calls a ''gear year.'' If so, he said, we can expect the unemployment rate to decline and ''confidence throughout the economy will rise,'' leading companies to step up both hiring and capital investment.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Private Sector Leads Recovery: Measured by overall growth in the economy and by employment gains, the recovery from the recession that officially ended in June 2009 is roughly comparable to the recoveries that followed the two previous recessions. But the details are very different. This recovery has been largely based on private sector investment and hiring, and has been held back by reductions in government spending and employment. Consumer spending has grown more slowly than in previous recoveries, and the home building industry is barely holding its own. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis and Bureau of Labor Statistics, both via Haver Analytics
 National Bureau of Economic Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); HOME PRICES (68%); CONSTRUCTION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



442 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Market Run Is Halted On Doubts About Europe

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
After a stellar start to the year, it was bound to happen. The three main indexes on Wall Street each ended the week with a loss on Friday amid a disheartening euro debt picture.
Many investors and analysts had expected a bout of selling after the last several weeks of gains. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had risen in each of the five weeks since the start of the year, and on Thursday the Dow Jones industrial average had its highest close since May 19, 2008, before the financial crisis.
But by the end of this week, doubts about the euro zone debt crisis -- an entrenched theme of 2011 -- resurfaced to bully the major market indexes lower. A general strike, protests and political turmoil boiled over in Greece a day after the government reached a provisional deal on the terms of a new loan program. 
At the close on Friday, the day proved to be the worst trading session for the Dow so far this year. It finished down 0.69 percent, or 89.23 points at 12,801.23, making it the biggest drop by both measures for the index since Dec. 28.
The S.& P. was down 9.31 points, or also 0.69 percent, at 1,342.64. And the Nasdaq finished lower by 23.35 points, or 0.80 percent, at 2,903.88.
That meant the S.& P., the broader measure of the equity markets, had shaved off 0.2 percent over the five-day period, which was its first declining week in 2012. The Nasdaq ended the week down 0.06 percent, also its first week lower in 2012. The Dow Jones industrial average finished lower by 0.5 percent in the week, its second week down this year.
Alan B. Lancz, the president of the money management and investment advisory firm Alan B. Lancz & Associates, said the market was overbought in the last few weeks and was due for a pullback.
''It's been an incredible stretch,'' he said, referring to the gains since the beginning of the year. ''But I think the markets are a little bit ahead of themselves, and that is what we are seeing here.''
With uncertainties about Greece, new fears about inflation in China and worries about tepid growth in the United States, he said, ''Nobody wants to hold over the weekend.''
The last time the S.& P. 500 had a weekly loss was the final week of 2011, when it ended down 0.6 percent.
Still, the markets have seen little of the volatile trading that characterized the financial markets last year, when there were often swings of more than 2 percent in one day.
Keith B. Hembre, the chief economist and chief investment strategist at Nuveen Asset Management, said the declines on Friday were not necessarily signs of a trend and meant only that ''there are risks in the world today.''
He added that the declines on Friday reflected fears of contagion should Greece default on a bond redemption due in March.
''You get the whole financial contagion process moving forward with a lot more uncertainty, a lot more risk aversion in the near term,'' he said.
Financial stocks, which have traditionally been sensitive to the turmoil in the euro zone, were down by 1 percent. Bank of America was down 1.34 percent at $8.07. Citigroup fell 2.2 percent to $32.92. Energy and materials were also lower by 1 percent or more.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 15/32, to 100 5/32, and the yield fell to 1.98 percent from 2.04 percent late Thursday.
In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, closed down 1.7 percent, and the FTSE 100 index in London fell 0.7 percent. The DAX index in Germany was lower by 1.4 percent. Indexes were also lower in France, Italy and Spain.
The euro closed down slightly at 1.3172, from 1.3283.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); EURO (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%)

COMPANY: ALAN B LANCZ & ASSOCIATES INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); GREECE (88%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



443 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
MYANMAR DETAINS MONK
AFTER HIS RECENT RELEASE
A Burmese monk who was released last month as part of a mass release of political prisoners was arrested again in Yangon, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, a group that tracks the plight of dissidents and democracy advocates in the country. Page A4
APPEAL REJECTED IN PAKISTAN 
Pakistan's Supreme Court dismissed an appeal over contempt charges against Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani for failing to pursue corruption investigations of President Asif Ali Zardari, escalating a tense governmental standoff. Page A4
EX-LEADER'S CALL FOR A VOTE
As United Nations officials tried to resolve the political turmoil in Maldives, the former president demanded that his replacement step down and call early elections. He also urged the international community to stop security services from beating his supporters on outlying islands. Page A6
STRIFE IN GEORGIAN ENCLAVE
The opposition movement leader in South Ossetia has been hospitalized after a possible rifle-butt blow to the head, and her organization lies in disarray after being crushed by police officers apparently acting on Kremlin orders. Page A8
DATA BLAMED FOR BAD STRIKE
Afghan government officials who traveled to the village where seven children and a young adult reportedly were killed in a NATO airstrike this week said that the bombing was based on bad information from an informant. Page A9
ARGENTINA RAGES AT BRITAIN
Argentina lashed out at Britain in an increasingly tense dispute over the Falkland Islands, accusing Britain of deploying a nuclear-armed submarine to the South Atlantic and threatening the region's stability. Page A9
HAMAS LEADER VISITS IRAN
Ismail Haniya, the prime minister of the Hamas government in Gaza, arrived in Iran for a visit that suggested that relations between Hamas and Iran remained good despite reports of tensions over Syria. Page A10
National
LABOR DEPARTMENT REVISES
GUEST WORKER PROGRAM
The Labor Department unveiled rules that reshape a program for foreign migrants in work other than agriculture, changes that officials said would strengthen protections for those workers and also spur recruitment of Americans for such jobs. Page A11
AUDIT FOR ENERGY LOANS
The Department of Energy's loan guarantee program for alternative energy projects needs more rigorous financial oversight and stricter performance standards for recipients to reduce the chance of future defaults, according to an audit conducted by the White House. Page A13
OFFICIAL EXPECTS VINDICATION
Representative Spencer Bachus, the Alabama Republican who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said that he expected to be cleared of wrongdoing in an inquiry by the Office of Congressional Ethics into possible violations of insider-trading laws. Page A14
CANCER DRUG RUNNING SHORT
A crucial medicine to treat childhood leukemia is in such short supply that hospitals across the country may exhaust their stores within the next two weeks, leaving hundreds and perhaps thousands of children at risk of dying from a largely curable disease, federal officials and cancer doctors say. Page A15
New York
AIDE AT PRESTIGIOUS SCHOOL
ARRESTED ON ABUSE CHARGES
Gregory Atkins, 56, a teacher's aide at a highly regarded public school in Manhattan, was arrested after an accusation that he had sexually abused a student at the school, the authorities said. After his arrest, he was suspended without pay, the education department said. Page A16
Obituaries
JILL KINMONT BOOTHE, 75
A champion ski racer, her struggle to recuperate from a paralyzing fall on an icy slope became the subject of the popular 1975 film ''The Other Side of the Mountain.'' Page D8
Business
FUND MANAGER CHARGED
WITH INSIDER TRADING
A California hedge fund manager was charged with making illegal trades in Google and other technology stocks, the latest person to be ensnared in the government's insider-trading crackdown. Page B1
CONFUSED NUCLEAR CLEANUP
The Japanese government has started to hand out an initial $13 billion in contracts meant to rehabilitate the more than 8,000-square-mile region most exposed to radioactive fallout from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear reactors. But contractors' knowledge of decontamination is sparse, and it is far from clear if their untried methods will prove effective. Page B1
MISSING CASH ESTIMATE RISES
MF Global commodity customers whose cash vanished when the firm collapsed last year are owed $1.6 billion -- up significantly from previous estimates -- the trustee tasked with recovering the money said. Page B1
SPAIN CHANGES LABOR POLICY
The Spanish government approved changes in labor policy intended to reduce the cost for employers of dismissing staff, and to create new incentives for companies to hire the young and the previously jobless. Page B3
BIG TRADE DECLINE IN CHINA
China's trade recorded its biggest decline in January since the 2008 crisis, the nation's customs bureau said in a new sign of weak global demand and a slowing domestic economy. Page B6
Sports
FORMER N.B.A. COACH
ADJUSTS TO HIGH SCHOOL
Eddie Jordan, 57, was fired as coach of the Philadelphia 76ers in 2010. Now he is coaching freshmen at his alma mater, Archbishop Carroll High School in Washington. Page D1
SHAKY FUTURE FOR COYOTES
The Coyotes are celebrating their 15th anniversary of playing hockey in Arizona. But problems like declining attendance could prompt a move back to Canada, possibly Quebec City. Page D5
Arts
THE DECLINING IMPACT
OF THE ON-SCREEN KISS
Here is the curse of our age: We have kissed ourselves into complacency. Although there is plenty of smooching on ''Animal Planet'' and ''Modern Family,'' the high-impact kiss that lingers for years in the cultural memory, like the Archie Bunker-Sammy Davis Jr. moment, seems to be extinct, writes Neil Genzlinger. Page C1
PLEASANT SURPRISE IN GAME
Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning, the fantasy role-playing game that is the first release from Curt Schilling's 38 Studios, defies expectations. Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning isn't just good. It sings with infectious, engaging excellence, writes Seth Schiesel. Page C1
Op-Ed
Joe Nocera PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CHILDREN (87%); HAMAS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); ARRESTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); APPEALS (76%); ETHICS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); LEUKEMIA (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); AUDITS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); ISLANDS & REEFS (68%); HOSPITALS (67%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (65%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); NAVAL VESSELS (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (62%); FOREIGN LABOR (62%); INSIDER TRADING (60%); CANCER DRUGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: SPENCER BACHUS (58%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (56%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); MYANMAR (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (79%); MALDIVES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



444 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Exceeds Projections

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- The nation's trade deficit widened slightly more than expected in December, as stronger economic growth lifted imports to the highest level in three and a half years, the Commerce Department said on Friday. 
The report showed that the deficit with China rose last year to a record high $295.5 billion, underscoring an irritant in the relationship between the two countries ahead of talks next week.
In another report Friday, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment showed that Americans felt worse about their personal finances in early February. The index fell to 72.5 in early February, from 75.0 in January. It was the first drop in six months and reflected households' anxiety over their finances.
The monthly trade gap swelled to $48.8 billion as imports climbed to the highest level since July 2008, just before the financial crisis caused world trade to plunge.
Analysts surveyed before the report had forecast a December trade deficit of $48.0 billion, up from a revised estimate of $47.1 billion in November.
Exports from the United States grew slightly in December, with records set for petroleum, services and advance technology goods.
Omer Esiner, chief market strategist at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange in Washington, said the meager growth in exports could be a result of ''somewhat soft global demand,'' raising longer-term concerns.
For the year, the United States trade gap rose 11.6 percent to $558.0 billion, the highest since 2008.
Exports last year rose 14.5 percent to $2.1 trillion, keeping the United States on pace to meet President Obama's goal of doubling exports in five years.
Imports grew 13.8 percent to $2.7 trillion, with records set in several categories.
Auto imports rose to the highest level since 2007 and petroleum was highest since 2008. The average price for imported oil in 2011 was $99.78 per barrel.
In the consumer sentiment report, consumers appeared to be worried about incomes but optimistic about job prospects.
''This pattern of responses -- less favorable current assessments and more favorable prospects -- is not surprising,'' the director of the sentiment survey, Richard T. Curtin, said. ''It simply indicates that consumers find their current situation all the harder to bear when improvement is finally in sight.''
Employers added 243,000 workers to their payrolls in January and the jobless rate fell to a three-year low of 8.3 percent.
Some economists were not worried about the slide in sentiment early this month.
''The Michigan index is not seasonally adjusted and tends to be weak in February so the decrease in sentiment reported this year may partially be a reflection of this seasonal pattern,'' Daniel Silver, an economist at JPMorgan in New York, said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



445 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo: Subtracting the Post From Post-Partisanship

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
2:55 p.m. Updated ''One of the things about being president,'' President Obama said the other day in an interview with NBC News, ''is that you get better as time goes on.''
Whether he has gotten better is a judgment voters can make in November. But as his handling of two controversial decisions this week showed, there is little doubt that he is different, changed by three years in the White House in ways that speak to fundamental questions about him among both his supporters and his critics. 
If Mr. Obama was naive back when he began his presidential run five years ago Friday, as many Republicans asserted during the 2008 campaign, he is a lot less so now. If he aspired to post-partisanship when he took the oath of office, as many of his admirers hoped, he is much more openly combative and political now. If he thought then that he could change how Washington works - a proposition viewed skeptically, to say the least, by many experienced people in both parties -- he has opted, for now, to play by its existing rules.
If circumstances and his own political skill allowed him to run in 2008 as something other than an ordinary politician, this time around he faces all the challenges, and carries much of the baggage, of any other standard-issue Democrat. To the degree that he and his team ever fully bought into the image they created of him as a transformational figure, it has given way to a practical focus on holding together a center-left coalition that can get them to 270 electoral votes.
''In my religion we call it a baptism of fire,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, referring to how Mr. Obama's experience over the last few years has made him less inclined to give Republicans the benefit of the doubt and more pragmatic about what is within reach.
''Every presidential candidate, whether running the first time or for re-election, is a person of aspiration,'' Mr. Durbin said. ''Then they are going to face reality and the desperation of achieving what is possible.''
The most recent manifestations of Mr. Obama's more prosaic approach came this week with his shift in course on a crucial element of his campaign fund-raising and his handling of the backlash against his policy on insurance coverage for contraception.
In the first case, he abandoned his long-held position against steering his campaign contributors to friendly ''super PACs,'' the outside groups whose vast expenditures on negative advertising are reshaping politics. Faced with the choice of running for re-election armed with a principle or with potentially millions more dollars to help offset the current Republican advantage in the super PAC wars, he set aside the principle, prompting quiet cheers from party operatives and expressions of outrage from advocates of tighter campaign finance controls.
The decision was only the latest in which Mr. Obama has displayed a new willingness to confront Republicans much more aggressively, following his ill-fated effort last year to reach a bipartisan agreement on deficit reduction - by all accounts a turning point in his views.
At this stage, the White House is happy to be perceived as going around, under or through Republicans to get what it wants.
Last month the president swatted aside pointed threats from Republicans on Capitol Hill and made four recess appointments, including the chief of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
He has shown little inclination to compromise with Republicans over his demand for further extension of the payroll-tax holiday. He is hitting hard on themes of inequality and striking a clear populist note in his campaign appearances.
''He has been sobered by the reality of his political opposition,'' Mr. Durbin said.
But if his more confrontational style has been welcomed by other Democrats on the ballot this year, it carries risks as well. He still does not fit neatly into an ideological box, but he is facing greater challenges in holding his party together -- witness the White House's efforts over the last few days to find a path through the politics of its decision to require institutions with religious affiliations to offer health coverage that pays for contraception.
Mr. Obama finally acted on Friday after centrist Democrats like Senators Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and Bob Casey of Pennsylvania broke with him on the issue and Republican presidential candidates used it to make a case that the White House is antireligion. The White House said it made no substantive compromise, and it brought liberal groups along with the decision, but the speed with which it responded to the uproar demonstrated how attuned Mr. Obama has become to potential electoral trouble.
And the administration has shown signs of internal strains on other issues with the potential to divide left and center, from the pace of withdrawal from Afghanistan to the rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline.
At the same time, Mr. Obama is still searching for a compelling narrative for his re-election in the post-Hope and Change era. He has tried somewhat subtler versions of ''It Would Have Been Worse Without Me,'' ''By Comparison to the Other Guys I Look Pretty Good'' and ''Change Takes More Than One Term.'' As he put it in the NBC interview, ''It turns out that our founders designed a system that makes it more difficult to bring about change than I would like sometimes.''
For the moment at least, his chances appear to be improving. A Washington Post-ABC News poll this week found Mr. Obama running slightly ahead of Mitt Romney on a national basis.
But his opportunity to rally the nation in a big way is no doubt more limited than it was four years ago, when voters could project onto him almost anything they wanted to.
He can no longer claim to float above the partisan fray. He has a record. And where he could once shape his fate by reaching for poetry in his own words, he is now hostage to a large extent to monthly job-creation and unemployment numbers churned out by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Whether those get better will go a long way toward determining whether voters decide he has gotten better.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama's handling of two events this week show how he has been changed by his experience in the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (75%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%); RELIGION (63%); CONTRACEPTION (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



446 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Obama Budget Lessens Focus On the Deficit

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama will lay out a budget blueprint on Monday that amounts to an election-year bet that a plan for higher taxes on the rich and more spending on popular programs like infrastructure and manufacturing will trump concerns over the deficit.
The new budget proposal contrasts with the deficit-cutting promises that attended the budget rollout last year and the debates that followed. Figures released on Friday indicate that the White House foresees a slightly higher deficit in the current fiscal year than the $1.3 trillion deficit of the 2011 fiscal year, even after the budget battles that dominated Washington last year.
The deficit is projected to fall to $901 billion in the fiscal year that starts in October, the first time since 2008 that the red ink would be below the $1 trillion mark. But last year, the White House had projected the 2013 deficit dropping further, to $768 billion.
Under White House projections, the deficit would reach $575 billion in 2018, or 2.7 percent of the economy, before rising again to $704 billion in 2022, or 2.8 percent. 
The highlights of the plan for the 2013 fiscal year may not be those bottom-line figures but the spending inside.
A senior administration official on Friday evening framed the budget as the third act in a three-act play, which started with the fiery populism of Mr. Obama's December speech in Osawatomie, Kan., continued with his State of the Union address and ends with a politically freighted budget rollout on Monday at a community college in the electoral battleground of Northern Virginia. Budget unveilings are usually handled in Washington by White House staff and cabinet members, with a brief message from the president.
The budget document distributed on Friday on Capitol Hill was permeated by the language of Mr. Obama's State of the Union address and his call ''to construct an economy that is built to last.'' But the words and the policies hark back to the first year of Mr. Obama's presidency and his call for a ''New Foundation.''
In essence, Mr. Obama will campaign on a vow to stay the course.
''We must transform our economy from one focused on speculating, spending and borrowing to one constructed on the solid foundation of educating, innovating, and building,'' the document states.
As Democrats promote the revival of manufacturing, the president will call for an additional $2.2 billion for advanced manufacturing research and development, a 19 percent leap over the current year. In all, Mr. Obama will seek a 5 percent increase in nonmilitary research spending.
For more immediate job programs, the White House will urge $350 billion in short-term job spending, as well as a six-year transportation and infrastructure program that would cost $476 billion. He will ask for $60 billion to refurbish at least 35,000 schools and help state and local governments hire and retain teachers, firefighters and police officers.
Tens of billions of dollars have already been spent on such efforts through the stimulus program passed in 2009, and Republicans in Congress -- intent on calling the first effort a failure -- are not about to embark on a new round.
But the latest budget document can be seen as more a platform for the president's re-election campaign than a legislative proposal for budget debates that will begin next week. The budget will call for a 10-year, $61 billion ''financial crisis responsibility fee'' to hit the largest financial companies and a tax overhaul referred to as ''everyone pays their fair share.''
Congressional leaders of both parties have vowed to pursue an overhaul of the tax code to make it simpler and fairer. But Mr. Obama's version includes proposals that have been partisan flashpoints. His version pushes for the elimination of ''unfair tax breaks for millionaires.'' The current alternative minimum tax -- which hits some middle-class families -- would be scrapped in favor the president's ''Buffett rule,'' named after the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett and devised to ensure that households earning more than $1 million a year pay no less than 30 percent of their income in taxes.
The budget document calls for a simpler tax code with lower rates, but the president also wants a tax overhaul to cut the deficit by $1.5 trillion through 2022 and allow President George W. Bush's tax cuts to expire for families earning more than $250,000 a year.
New spending and targeted tax increases seem far more gaudy than the $638 billion in spending cuts the White House is claiming over 10 years from health programs like Medicare and Medicaid, agriculture subsidies, federal worker retirement funds and other programs.
In all, the White House is boasting of more than $4 trillion in ''balanced deficit reduction'' in the package over 10 years, a figure that includes $1 trillion in spending cuts agreed to last year after a series of confrontations with Congressional Republicans.
But the document's numbers will show Mr. Obama has failed to meet his pledge to cut the deficit in half by the end of his term, and for Republicans, that will be the bottom line.
''President Obama pledged to cut the deficit in half by the end of his term,'' said Stephen Miller, spokesman for the Republicans on the Senate Budget Committee. ''Their optimistic projection is that next year's deficit will be almost a trillion dollars -- after four straight trillion-dollar deficits. So the White House is bragging about a broken promise?''
But deficit reduction may be beside the point. Mr. Obama appears to be laying out a campaign document that pits jobs programs paid for with tax increases on the rich against the deep spending cuts that will be the heart of the Republican Party's economic program, rebuilding versus austerity.
House Republican leaders have already promised to follow the president's plan with a budget document of their own that is largely based on last year's blueprint drafted by Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and the chairman of the House Budget Committee.
The new Ryan plan may temper his proposal to replace guaranteed, government-paid Medicare with vouchers that would be used to purchase private health insurance plans. Instead, Mr. Ryan is likely to propose a new version that offers traditional Medicare as an alternative to vouchers, mirroring the Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney's plan as well as the one Mr. Ryan drafted with Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon.
As Republicans drive toward deeper spending cuts without tax increases, the president's budget plan appears to have been drafted to maximize the contrast between the two parties, and to raise the stakes of the November election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); THEATER (65%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



447 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Romney's Record as Governor Resumes Central Role in Nomination Fight

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Mitt Romney sought on Friday to expunge the lingering skepticism and unease that conservative activists have raised about his presidential candidacy, pledging in a speech that he would not betray their trust or abandon their principles if he challenged President Obama as the Republican nominee.
As the Republican presidential race intensifies, Mr. Romney's record as Massachusetts governor has resumed a central role. He introduced himself at a speech here as a ''severely conservative governor,'' but one of his leading rivals, Rick Santorum, warned voters not to settle for ''a hollow victory'' by nominating an impure conservative. 
The nominating contest, which is growing increasingly acrimonious as candidates fight for delegates, took center stage as thousands of party activists convened for the annual Conservative Political Action Conference. The forum highlighted the united opposition to Mr. Obama, particularly given the recent furor over birth control and health care coverage, but also drew attention to sharp disagreements about who would make the strongest nominee.
Mr. Romney, who had hoped to be well on his way to securing his bid for the nomination by now, delivered a forceful defense of his conservative credentials. He set aside his economic message and presented himself as a Washington outsider, vowing to repeal Mr. Obama's signature health care legislation, reduce the size of government and maintain a strong opposition to abortion.
''I happen to be the only candidate in this race, Republican or Democrat, who has never worked a day in Washington,'' Mr. Romney said. ''I don't have old scores to settle or decades of cloakroom deals that I have to defend.''
But the new order of the Republican presidential campaign also came into sharper view, as Mr. Santorum was greeted by enthusiastic applause after his victories in Colorado, Minnesota and Missouri on Tuesday. His aides announced Friday that he had raised $3 million in the past three days -- more than all of last year -- in what they said was a sign that conservatives were urgently seeking an alternative to Mr. Romney.
Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, sharply criticized the health care law that Mr. Romney signed as governor of Massachusetts, saying it wipes away one of the best arguments Republicans have against the Obama administration. He called the Massachusetts health care law ''the stepchild of Obamacare,'' and reminded conservative activists that they still had a choice in the race.
''I think we have learned our lesson,'' Mr. Santorum said. ''We will no longer abandon and apologize for the policies and principles that made this country great for a hollow victory in November.''
The Republican race, at least for now, is emerging as a battle between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum. Former Speaker Newt Gingrich also appeared at the conference, but he neither mentioned his rivals nor devoted his speech to tearing down Mr. Romney as he did a week ago after losing in Nevada. Representative Ron Paul of Texas chose to spend the day campaigning in Maine, where Saturday is the final day of caucuses.
The spotlight was squarely on Mr. Romney, who is working to regain the upper hand in the Republican nominating contest. He went to great lengths to showcase his conservative core, using a variation of the word ''conservative'' at least 25 times during a 25-minute speech.
But he did not dramatically change his tone or signal that he was poised to make urgent adjustments to his message. While commentators had built up his appearance at the conservative forum as a make-or-break moment for his candidacy, he seemed to confront it with the same methodical approach he has taken to his campaign.
At the conference here four years ago, in the same ballroom of the Marriott Wardman Park hotel, Mr. Romney announced that he was ending his presidential bid. The crowd roared in disapproval, a sign of the well-known dislike among conservatives for Senator John McCain.
It was difficult to measure how much ground Mr. Romney has gained or lost, particularly given how the Republican Party has changed since 2008. He reminded the audience of his conservative record in a state that he called the most liberal in the country.
''I was a severely conservative Republican governor,'' Mr. Romney said, adding ''severely'' to the text of his speech for emphasis. ''I fought against long odds in a deep blue state.''
In his speech, Mr. Romney presented himself as a chief executive with the breadth of experience needed in the White House. He also ran through a litany of his conservative principles from his time as governor, declaring at one point: ''We fought hard and prevented Massachusetts from becoming the Las Vegas of gay marriage.''
The three-day conservative conference concludes Saturday with a presidential straw poll. The Romney campaign was working aggressively behind the scenes for a strong showing, including busing students from colleges along the Eastern Seaboard to show their support.
While the Republican presidential race has often devolved into a bare-knuckle affair, particularly during the televised debates, the atmosphere on Friday was far more genteel. During Mr. Gingrich's afternoon speech, he assumed the posture of a happy warrior, not once questioning, as he often has, Mr. Romney's changing positions on abortion or other issues.
''We need to teach the Republican establishment a lesson,'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''We are determined to rebuild America, not to manage its decay.''
It was Mr. Santorum who raised pointed questions about Mr. Romney's conservative core. He implored Republican primary voters to buck the party tendency to nominate the candidate with the most money and the most moderate credentials. ''We always talked about how are we going to get the moderates?'' Mr. Santorum said. ''Why would an undecided voter vote for the candidate of a party when the party's not excited about him?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Supporters of Mitt Romney on Friday at the Conservative Political Action Conference, where Mr. Romney sought to address reservations about his credentials.
 Rick Santorum, surrounded by family members, exhorted the audience not to settle for ''a hollow victory'' by nominating an impure conservative. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); CONSERVATISM (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICK SANTORUM (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



448 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Helpings Of Energy And Cheer For the Trail

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
DALLAS -- At a time when President Obama and his opponents are blamed for shrinking from painful remedies for a sluggish nation, Michelle Obama is back on the road as a tireless, cheerful dispenser of them.
''You've got a lot of energy because you're all eating your vegetables and exercising,'' the first lady proclaimed to a crowd of 14,000 screaming children in Des Moines on Thursday.
''Thank you for eating your vegetables,'' she told airmen at a mess hall in Little Rock, Ark., as several stared guiltily into half-eaten plates of broccoli. ''We need you strong.''
And sitting down with parents for dinner at an Olive Garden restaurant in Fort Worth, she exclaimed, ''I hope you're hungry; I'm starving,'' and then passed around a salad bowl. 
Serving up leafy greens is easier, of course, than slicing $1 trillion out of the federal budget. But Mrs. Obama has managed to make her ''eat your peas'' message painless and even occasionally joyful, hamming it up through a three-day, four-state tour to mark the second anniversary of her childhood anti-obesity campaign, ''Let's Move!'' The trip is a timely reminder of why the Obama campaign views her as such a potent weapon.
''This is a bit of a twofer,'' Mrs. Obama said of the tour in an interview with reporters here on Friday. ''It's an issue that I care about, but it's an issue that's important to the country. And because it's an issue that's important to the country, it helps my husband.''
Mrs. Obama had just finished judging a ''Top Chef'' competition to pick the best school lunch. She and her co-judges -- the celebrity chef Tom Colicchio and the Obamas' personal cook and food policy adviser, Sam Kass -- declared it a tie among the three entries. The first lady told the children at the taping that when it comes to healthy school lunches, ''everybody wins.''
That's certainly not true in politics, which is why Mrs. Obama is shouldering an increasingly busy schedule of appearances at fund-raisers -- often in out-of-the-way destinations like Burlington, Vt., or Aspen, Colo. -- where she delivers a fervent stump speech about why Mr. Obama deserves to beat his challenger in November.
She also visited the campaign headquarters in Chicago, which electrified the staff ''because it was so clear how invested she was in this,'' said David Axelrod, a senior strategist.
With poll ratings that consistently surpass those of her husband, Mrs. Obama can be deployed before virtually any audience, according to the president's campaign advisers. Some conservatives criticize the first lady for trying to make Americans eat ''cardboard and tofu,'' in the words of Rush Limbaugh. But her message has resonated with many other people, including those she met this week.
''We may look back and say, 'She saved more lives than anybody else in the administration,' '' Mr. Axelrod said. ''It's obviously something she feels passionately about, and not just because she is beating the bejesus out of everybody in push-ups.''
Not just push-ups: she crushed the late-night television host Jimmy Fallon in dodge ball and a potato-sack race during a fitness contest filmed in the East Room of the White House. She also talked Jay Leno, an avowed vegetable-phobe, into eating an apple dipped in honey.
At the rally in Iowa, Mrs. Obama expertly led the crowd in the ''Interlude,'' an aerobic-style dance from the University of Northern Iowa that has become a YouTube sensation. Gov. Terry Branstad, a Republican, tried manfully to keep in step.
All the goofing around is in furtherance of a serious goal, Mrs. Obama said, and her willingness to act silly is not just a stunt. People know when ''you're not as passionate about it or you're just doing it for political reasons,'' she said. ''People smell that out so easily.''
Mrs. Obama's image of a happy warrior is miles from the frustration she expressed, in response to a new biography by a New York Times reporter, Jodi Kantor, that she could be perceived as an ''angry black woman.'' In the interview Friday, Mrs. Obama acknowledged she has struggled at times with pessimism, watching her husband grapple with a faltering economy and the trials of Washington.
''When times get tough, we all get worried,'' she said. ''We are Eeyore,'' she said, referring to the downcast donkey in the Winnie the Pooh stories, and then offering an imitation of him: '' 'We'll never make it; we'll never get out of here; it is horrible; we're losing; it's over.' ''
But Mrs. Obama jokingly referred to her husband as ''Mr. Happy Guy, seeing the glass half full,'' which she said sustained her confidence in the future.
On this trip, the first lady has most come to life when discussing the work-life stresses faced by ordinary families. At the Olive Garden, she carried on an earnest conversation with eight parents about how to improve the eating habits and fitness of their families.
The first lady drew on her own family, telling stories about her daughters, Malia and Sasha, that hinted at their rarefied existence but stuck a common chord with her guests.
Sasha, she said, came home from an after-school cooking class, marveling about tomatoes they had grown. ''They were 'hair-something,' '' Sasha said, according to her mother. ''And I was like, 'You mean heirloom,' '' Mrs. Obama replied, noting that heirlooms also grow in the White House garden. ''She's like, 'No, but these were different.' ''
The first lady listened as Cassandra Leach, a teacher, spoke about growing up with a morbidly obese mother, who could not participate in any outdoor activities with her. Mrs. Obama replied that she sympathized because her father, Fraser Robinson, suffered from multiple sclerosis, which had robbed him of the ability to play sports with his children.
While she talked, she picked at a plate of Venetian apricot chicken with broccoli, asparagus and tomatoes. Afterward, she noted approvingly that the dish contained fewer than 500 calories.
The president's campaign advisers said that they were well aware that Mrs. Obama drew strict limits on how much she would do for the campaign because of family obligations. Her message, she said, is ''This is the time I have to give to the campaign, and whatever you do with that time is up to you, but when it's over, don't even look at me.''
''I'm absolutely fired up,'' she insisted, ''but I always have to have balance, because I'm a mother. When I'm out there, I'm fired up, but when I'm not, I have to be Malia and Sasha's mom, and that can't be as a fired-up campaigner. They're like, 'Where were you?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michelle Obama at a taping of ''Top Chef'' in Dallas, where she judged an episode in which children participated in a best-school-lunch competition. The judges declared a three-way tie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS)(A11)
Michelle Obama did the ''Interlude'' dance in Iowa and visited Little Rock Air Force Base. ''Thank you for eating your vegetables,'' she told the airmen there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS)(A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); OBESITY (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); BUDGETS (52%); ANNIVERSARIES (51%); CELEBRITIES (50%)

COMPANY: ARK ASA (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (71%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (91%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (88%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (74%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (51%) IOWA, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (88%); VERMONT, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



449 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Myanmar Detains Monk Recently Freed From Prison

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
BANGKOK -- A prominent Burmese monk who was freed last month as part of a mass release of political prisoners was briefly detained again on Friday in Yangon, Myanmar's main city, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, a group that tracks the plight of dissidents and democracy advocates in the country.
The monk, Ashin Gambira, was one of the organizers of the 2007 uprising against the military government that ruled Myanmar at the time. His arrest on Friday, after four weeks of freedom, appeared to demonstrate the limits of tolerance under Myanmar's new civilian government. 
The government of President Thein Sein, which took office less than a year ago, has rescinded a number of the authoritarian practices that for decades had made Myanmar one of the most repressive countries in Asia. It has been rewarded with increasing international reconciliation. Last month, a few hours after the prisoner release, the United States moved to restore full diplomatic relations.
Before Mr. Gambira was released on Friday, the State Department called on the government ''to provide clarification on the purpose of his detention.''
''Given the Burmese government's stated commitment to reform and democratization, we call on Burmese authorities to protect the fundamental freedoms of all its citizens, including all of those recently released from detention,'' said Victoria Nuland, a State Department spokeswoman, referring to Myanmar, per American policy, by its former name.
Many observers have been predicting some sort of backlash against the reforms by hard-liners in the government or factions of the military.
Mr. Gambira in recent weeks has remained critical of the government, telling an interviewer that Myanmar still had the ''characteristics of a dictatorship.'' He also sought to reopen a Yangon monastery that served as a center of opposition during the 2007 uprising.
Details of Mr. Gambira's detention were slow to emerge Friday. The American Embassy in Myanmar said he was arrested early Friday at the monastery. The timing was reminiscent of the tactics used against dissidents by the former junta.
The Associated Press quoted a Home Ministry official in Myanmar as saying that Mr. Gambira had been taken in for ''questioning in relation to an incident'' and was released that evening.
Mr. Thein Sein, a former general, has quickly carried out reforms in recent months that have won the praise of, among others, the United States and the European Union, which were among Myanmar's main critics during its long years of military rule. But amid the hurried efforts to write new laws, end some censorship of the media, release hundreds of political prisoners and woo foreign investors, there have been signs of fissures in the reform process.
Bo Kyi, one of the founders of the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, which is based along the Thai-Myanmar border, counts at least 415 political prisoners still in detention. The government is also struggling with the long-desired goal of national unity among Myanmar's many ethnic groups.
Fighting continues between ethnic Kachin rebels and government troops in northern Myanmar, a longstanding conflict that was reignited last year and has resulted in a wave of refugees across the border into China. Separately, a cease-fire agreement signed last month with the Karen ethnic group appears to be fraying, with some Karen leaders denying that there even is an agreement.
Another cease-fire agreement, signed in December, between the government and the Shan State Army-South -- a large militia in northern Myanmar -- appears to have broken down, with reports of clashes between the two sides in recent days.
Such challenges are at odds with the picture being painted in Myanmar's state media, which on Friday declared that the ''peacemaking procedures are a success.''
''Eternal peace is now taking shape,'' said an article in The New Light of Myanmar on Friday.
Still, foreign investors, who have flocked to Myanmar in recent weeks to look for business opportunities, say they are startled by the speed of the reforms.
''It really is puzzling how they've been able to turn on a heel and push so quickly in this other direction with economic reforms and civil liberties,'' said John Pang, a Malaysian who organized a business delegation to Myanmar this week of prominent executives from the region.
''I'm well past wondering how genuine they are in their reforms,'' Mr. Pang said. ''The question is really whether it's sustainable -- and irreversible.''
Mr. Pang said the arrest of Mr. Gambira could help give outsiders some sense of the limits of tolerance amid the changes.
''All of this is starting to look like they are defying gravity,'' Mr. Pang said. ''I just want to know where the gravity is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ashin Gambira in Yangon in January after his release. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HTOO TAY ZAR/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CENSORSHIP (77%); ARRESTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%)

PERSON: THEIN SEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



450 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Obama Adjusts a Rule Covering Contraceptions

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and LAURIE GOODSTEIN; Helene Cooper reported from Washington, and Laurie Goodstein from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For the White House, the decision announced Friday to soften a rule requiring religious-affiliated organizations to pay for insurance plans that offer free birth control was never really driven by a desire to mollify Roman Catholic bishops, who were strongly opposed to the plan.
Rather, the fight was for Sister Carol Keehan -- head of an influential Catholic hospital group, who had supported President Obama's health care law -- and Catholic allies of the White House seen as the religious left. Sister Keehan had told the White House that the new rule, part of the health care law, went too far.
''I felt like he had made a really bad decision, and I told him that,'' Sister Keehan said of the president. ''I told his staff that. I felt like they had made a bad decision on principle, and politically it was a bad decision. For me another key thing was that it had the potential to threaten the future of health reform.''
Mr. Obama announced that rather than requiring religiously affiliated charities and universities to pay for contraceptives for their employees, the cost would be shifted to health insurance companies. The initial rule caused a political uproar among some Catholics and others who portrayed it as an attack on religious freedom. 
Meeting with his top advisers in the Oval Office last week amid rising anger from Catholic Democrats, liberal columnists and left-leaning religious leaders -- a fed-up Mr. Obama issued an order meant for Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services. Ms. Sebelius and agency lawyers had initially told the president they needed a year to work out a compromise that had seemed obvious to some in the administration from the start: make the new rule more like that offered by the State of Hawaii, where employees of religiously affiliated institutions obtained contraceptives through a side benefit offered by insurance companies.
But in difficult internal negotiations, a group of advisers had bested Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and others and sold the president on a stricter rule. Now the political furor surrounding it was threatening to consume signs of economic improvement giving a boost to the White House and put the Obama re-election campaign on the defensive.
Time was up, Mr. Obama told his advisers, according to officials in the meeting. Ms. Sebelius, a Catholic who, along with the president's senior adviser Valerie Jarrett and domestic policy adviser Melody Barnes, had pushed hard for the new rule, was not there, but the message came through: Figure out a way to make something like the Hawaii model work.
In announcing the shift on Friday, Mr. Obama sought to quell the brewing rebellion. Not unexpectedly, the Catholic bishops issued a statement renewing their call for ''legislative action on religious liberty,'' and calling rescission of the mandate the ''only complete solution.'' And Speaker John A. Boehner's spokesman on Friday promised that House Republicans ''will continue to work toward a legislative solution.''
What had not been anticipated enough, despite warnings from Mr. Biden; the former chief of staff William Daley; Mr. Biden's chief of staff, Bruce Reed; and the deputy national security adviser Denis McDonough, administration officials said, was that allies would be furious, too.
Tim Kaine, a Virginia Senate candidate and former head of the Democratic National Committee, echoed the concern of Sister Keehan, president of the Catholic Health Association, that it went too far. So did some liberal-leaning Catholics in the news media, like Chris Matthews of MSNBC's ''Hardball,'' who called the rule ''frightening,'' and E. J. Dionne, the Washington Post columnist, who wrote that Mr. Obama had ''utterly botched'' the issue.
Meanwhile, Sister Simone Campbell, executive director of Network, a group founded by nuns decades ago to lobby on social justice issues, warned White House officials that nearly 500 Catholic activists would be in Washington this weekend for a conference, and that if no compromise had been reached by then, all of them would return to their parishes fired up about the contraception mandate.
''We were getting killed,'' one administration official said Friday. The White House picked the deputy chief of staff Nancy-Ann DeParle to talk to Sister Keehan about ways the rule could be made palatable. Meanwhile, administration officials were hearing from women's rights organizations, particularly Planned Parenthood, who warned that they would oppose any compromise that made employees pick up the tab.
''After the many genuine concerns that have been raised over the last few weeks, as well as, frankly, the more cynical desire on the part of some to make this into a political football, it became clear that spending months hammering out a solution was not going to be an option,'' Mr. Obama said on Friday.
Some who favor the compromise wonder why it took so long. ''What has happened a few times in this administration is that they get so focused on the substantive policy, they get kind of narrowly focused and lose sight of the countervailing concerns,'' Sister Campbell said.
At the White House, the internal debate had raged since last fall, when administration officials started looking at how to put the rule into practice. All agreed early on that churches would be exempt. The question revolved around colleges, charities and other religiously affiliated institutions that employed people of different faiths.
Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan of New York met with Mr. Obama and argued in favor of a broad exemption. Shortly after, Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood, and other proponents of the rule began a series of meetings with officials to argue against an exemption for religiously affiliated institutions.
Throughout that debate, administration officials said, Mr. Obama pushed hard for a version of the Hawaii rule. But Ms. Sebelius and others at the Department of Health and Human Services said it would take time to resolve whether the administration could emulate that approach. In the end, with the State of the Union address imminent and time passing to work out the new rules governing the carrying out of the health care law, the administration announced on Jan. 20 that religious-affiliated institutions -- but not churches -- would have to offer the insurance.
''All hell broke loose,'' one administration official said, leading to Mr. Obama's sharp orders in the Oval Office last week.
The result differs from Hawaii in that it shifts the cost to insurers, instead of employees. It also differs from Hawaii in that it requires companies -- and not the religious institutions -- to inform employees about how to arrange coverage.
Before making his announcement, Mr. Obama on Friday called three people: Sister Keehan, Ms. Richards and Archbishop Dolan. From Sister Keehan and Ms. Richards, he got unqualified endorsements. Even the archbishop offered, initially, a grudging acknowledgment that it was ''a first step in the right direction'' -- although the bishops later said that Mr. Obama's fix ''raises serious moral concerns.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, with the secretary of health and human services, Kathleen Sebelius, announced a plan modeled on Hawaii's. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); INSURANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); HOSPITALS (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); LIBERAL MEDIA (64%); WRITERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (86%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



451 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Pipeline Politics, Economics and Science

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Poisoned Politics of Keystone XL,'' by Joe Nocera (column, Feb. 7):
Every pro-Keystone argument leaves out the same major facts: 
Tar sands oil is not intended for United States consumption, but for shipping to the highest bidder.
The job projections were discovered to be highly inflated; State Department estimates barely break 5,000.
Many Canadians oppose a tar sands pipeline as it is destroying large sections of their environment.
Mix this with about a dozen leaks that Keystone I has had in a single year, extremely high refining costs, and a route that puts American food and water supplies at increased risk, and it's hard to find a reason to like Keystone XL.
If Americans want to outgun China, it's not going to be on the back of dirty oil, but on renewable energy and ingenuity.
DEAN BIGBEE Bergenfield, N.J., Feb. 7, 2012
To the Editor:
Although Joe Nocera is probably right to lay most of the blame for the Keystone pipeline fiasco on our intractable political situation, President Obama is supposed to be the grown-up in the room. But instead of seizing the opportunity to improve American energy security and reduce the 17-plus percent unemployment rate in the construction trades, his dissembling is pushing Canada into the arms of the Chinese.
Blocking the Keystone project will not reduce American dependence on imported oil, preclude development of Canada's oil sands, or have any meaningful impact on climate change. What it will do is squander the benefits of having huge oil reserves just across the border under the control of a true and trusted ally and put the seas at risk from the supertankers that will carry that oil to Asia.
That's flawed policy on both security and environmental grounds.
RICHARD G. LITTLE Los Angeles, Feb. 7, 2012
The writer is a senior fellow at the Price School of Public Policy at the University of Southern California.
To the Editor:
Joe Nocera states that opposing the expansion of tar sands oil is ''ludicrous.'' Not if you're rational enough to believe in science. The reality is that we must decrease global emissions -- deeply, rapidly and permanently -- to avoid potentially vast environmental and economic disruption.
The only way to avoid dangerous, irreversible climate change is by reducing fossil fuel dependence at every opportunity, not by investing billions in new fossil fuel development. Keystone opponents are arguing that we accept climate science and act responsibly on what we know. To do otherwise would truly be ludicrous.
JABE BLUMENTHAL Board Co-chairman Climate Solutions Seattle, Feb. 8, 2012
To the Editor:
Bravo, Joe Nocera. He presented this issue as it really is. In particular, he makes clear that President Obama's decision to reject TransCanada's application had nothing to do with either energy or environmental concerns but was based entirely on electoral politics.
Which is not to say that the Republicans handled the issue responsibly, as he also points out. Let us hope that after November we can move ahead with this essential project.
THOMAS NILES Scarsdale, N.Y., Feb. 7, 2012
The writer served as ambassador to Canada from 1985 to 1989 and is vice chairman of the United States Council for International Business.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CAM FLOYD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (91%); POLITICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); EMISSIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



452 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING ENVIRONMENT; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 134 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Is Sued Over Delays In Soot Standards

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
Eleven states sued the Environmental Protection Agency on Friday over its delays in tightening air quality standards involving soot. The Obama administration has faced intense opposition to the stricter regulations from industry and Republicans, who claim that they would drive up energy costs and hurt economic growth. The lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, says the new rules are ''vitally important to public health.'' The states say that soot contributes to respiratory illness and heart disease and causes thousands of premature deaths a year. The states involved in the lawsuit are California, Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington. Agency officials said the E.P.A. was continuing to work on new standards. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (88%); AIR QUALITY (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); LITIGATION (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (83%); HEART DISEASE (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2012



453 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Going Nuclear Over the Falklands

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: As the 30th anniversary of Britain's war to recover the Falkland Islands approaches, Argentina claims the old imperialists have sent a nuclear submarine to South Atlantic waters in a step that poses a threat to the region's security. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Argentina has turned up the heat in its rekindled dispute with Britain over the Falkland Islands by accusing the perfidious British of dispatching a nuclear-powered, and possibly nuclear-armed, submarine to the South Atlantic.
The latest twist in the saga of the remote archipelago, which Argentines know at Las Malvinas, dominated the headlines in Buenos Aires on Saturday after Hctor Timerman, the foreign minister, appeared at the United Nations in New York brandishing a dossier on Britain's alleged military moves.
Tensions have been rising with the approach of the 30th anniversary of a war in which a British military task force crossed 8,000 miles of the Atlantic Ocean to recover the colonial outpost from an Argentine invasion force. 
The atmosphere did not improve when London announced that Prince William, heir to the British throne after his father Prince Charles, was heading for the Falklands along with a new warship.
What British officials described as a routine deployment for the 29-year-old air force helicopter pilot was denounced in Buenos Aires as a provocation.
After the 1982 conflict, the two countries pledged to keep the peace over their opposing claims to the islands. Britain believes the islands' future is a matter for the Falklands' population of around 3,000 English speakers to decide.
In the meantime, Britain reserves the right to have forces there and to patrol South Atlantic waters. Mark Lyall Grant, Britain's envoy at the U.N., said his country does not comment on the deployment of its submarines or nuclear weapons. But he dismissed Mr. Timerman's accusations that it was militarizing the situation as "manifestly absurd".
Britain has confirmed, however, the dispatch of HMS Dauntless, a new air defense destroyer - again as part of a routine deployment. Nigel Haywood, the British governor of the islands, told the Argentine daily Clarn that sending the Dauntless was just like upgrading your home computer when a better model comes out.
The Falkland Islands were virtually unknown to the wider British public until 1982, when the campaign to "liberate" them cemented the reputation of Margaret Thatcher, the then British prime minister, as "The Iron Lady".
For Argentines, however, their country's claim to the barren islands - where sheep outnumber the human population - is something they learn at their mother's knee. 
In the past, successive British governments would dispatch a nuclear submarine to the South Atlantic each year, and made sure the Argentines knew about it, to deter them from seizing the archipelago. That policy was shelved by the Thatcher government to save money, according to former officials familiar with the situation at the time.
Argentina's murderous military junta, which had wiped out thousands of its own citizens, misread the signal as an indication Britain was ready to abandon the islands. They believed in April 1982 that an uncontested invasion would divert their population's attention from a dire economic crisis by instilling it with patriotic fervor.
The ruling generals and admirals lost the gamble and were overthrown. 
Cynics in Britain say the Argentines were the real victors in the war: they got democracy, while the British got another decade of Margaret Thatcher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); BRITISH MONARCHS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); HELICOPTERS (52%) Argentina; britain; falklands; malvinas; Featured; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: PRINCE WILLIAM (58%); PRINCE CHARLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS) (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (98%); ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



454 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Jeremy Lin Is No Fluke

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Since the 1985-86 season, 41 players have had such a streak as the one Lin has just had for the Knicks. It is an extremely impressive list. 

 BODY:
Even an average N.B.A. player can have a great game. Within the past two seasons, players including Jordan Crawford, Hedo Turkoglu and Goran Dragic have recorded a triple-double. The Milwaukee Bucks' Brandon Jennings scored 55 points in a game in 2009, nearly quadrupling the 15 points per game he scored on average that season.
But what about four great games in a row - especially when they coincide with your first three N.B.A. starts?
The New York Knicks' Jeremy Lin has scored at least 23 points in each of his last four games, including 38 on Friday night against the Lakers. He has also recorded at least seven assists in each game, and he has been efficient, shooting at least 53 percent from the field each time.
Just how common is something like this? I searched basketball-reference.com for other streaks that were in the same general ballpark: players who scored at least 20 points, had at least six assists and shot 50 percent over a period of four consecutive N.B.A. regular season games.
Since the 1985-86 season, 41 players have had such a streak in addition to Lin.
It is an extremely impressive list. All but seven of the players made at least one All-Star appearance in their careers, with about two-thirds of them selected to the All-Star team multiple times. The list includes nine Hall of Famers - and a number of other players who are sure to make it once they retire. The players on the list account for 17 of the last 28 M.V.P. awards.
We can sort the players into six general categories, using their Elo ratings from basketball-reference.com as a guide. 
The first tier consists of 11 players that I call "All-Time Greats." These are players who were either among the 50 Greatest Players in N.B.A. History, when the league announced that list in 1996, or who have won an M.V.P. award since then. It contains pretty much who you'd think - Michael Jordan, Larry Bird, Magic Johnson. It also includes Steve Nash, a player to whom some are comparing Lin.
The next tier consists of four "Franchise Players." This includes players like Gary Payton, the former Seattle Supersonics point guard, who fall just short of immortality (or are too young to have achieved it yet), but who were probably good enough to lead a team to a championship.
In the third tier are the "All-Stars" - players who made the All-Star team about half the time during the peak of their careers, and who could win a championship if paired with a player of similar aptitude and a strong supporting cast. Two of these players, Chris Mullin and Joe Dumars, made the Hall of Fame, but most, like former Phoenix Suns point guard Kevin Johnson, fell just short of it.
Next up is the "Above Average" group - guys who had good overall careers and who might have made an All-Star team in their best season or two. Mark Jackson, the former Knicks point guard, is typical of this group.
Only 9 of the 41 players fall below this tier. Six of them, like the former Knick Steve Francis, fall into a group of average players. 
Just three of them, meanwhile - Pooh Richardson, Jay Humphries and Lionel Simmons - were mediocre N.B.A. players even at their peak.
In other words, while it is possible that Lin will turn out to be the next Pooh Richardson, the odds are in favor of a more impressive outcome. 
Basketball is much less luck-driven than a sport like baseball, especially for a point guard, who handles so many of the team's possessions. A league-average point guard might be able to muster one streak like Lin's over the course of his career. But it is more the hallmark of a player with at least borderline All-Star talent, if not more than that.
There are, however, two other factors pertinent to Jeremy Lin, one of which speaks favorably for him and the other less so.
The unfavorable factor is that absolutely nobody saw this coming. Lin was cut during the pre-season by the Golden State Warriors, and then again by the Houston Rockets, one of the more statistically savvy teams in the league. Lin had been undrafted out of college - that college was Harvard, by the way, where Lin majored in economics.
While it must be acknowledged that talent evaluation is an imperfect science in sports - and that there may be some bias against an Asian-American from Harvard who does not fit the mold of a typical N.B.A. point guard - that is nevertheless a reason to expect some reversion to the mean. That doesn't mean Lin is going to be the next Lionel Simmons, but it would weigh against a prediction that he will turn into a superstar.
On the other hand, these past four games aren't just any four, picked out at random from a long career. They represent the first four times that Lin had ever played more than 24 minutes in an N.B.A. game and his first three career starts. In fact, the 89 points Lin scored in his first three starts is the most by an N.B.A. player since the league merged with the A.B.A. in 1976.
And Lin has scored his points in impressive fashion, slashing and driving to the basket and creating easy shots for himself. Were he just a streak shooter who had knocked down a bunch of 3-pointers, perhaps there would be more reason to be skeptical.
Lin has also received the endorsement of one of the players on the All-Time Greats list, Magic Johnson, who compared him to two of the others, John Stockton and Steve Nash, on ESPN's telecast last night.
So perhaps the list of 41 players above is a roughly appropriate guide to Lin's possible futures. That would imply that there was about a one-in-four chance that Lin really was going to be a superstar, and about a one-in-four chance that he was an average (or worse) player on an incredible hot streak. That would leave a 50 percent chance that he was somewhere in the middle - a clearly above-average player who would make several All-Star teams in his career.
It's also worth watching to see whether Lin can extend the streak tonight against Minnesota. Only 17 of the 41 players had streaks that lasted for longer than four games, with many of the more marginal players dropping off the list.
And only five players had such a streak that lasted for six games or longer. Four of them are Michael Jordan, Charles Barkley, Isiah Thomas and Dwyane Wade. The other was less illustrious: Lafayette "Fat" Lever.

        
N.B.A. Disputes Forbes Analysis Suggesting League is Profitable

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%) Basketball; Jeremy Lin; Lin, Jeremy; New York Knicks; sports

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (93%); MILWAUKEE BUCKS (84%) New York Knicks

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%) Lin, Jeremy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



455 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BARRY, WALTER

 BODY:
BARRY--Walter, 99, pioneer of affordable, rehabilitated housing for low income families passed away at 99 on Monday, February 6, 2012. He would have turned 100 in April 2012. Walter Barry was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan in 1912 just after his mother-while pregnant with him-emigrated from Russia with his father. He began his working life in Newark as a union organizer for the Congress of Industrial Organizations (the CIO part of the modern AFL-CIO). Walter Barry, founded the Applied Housing Companies with his son Joseph in 1970 and then built thousands of units of affordable housing in Hoboken, New Jersey and other New Jersey cities throughout the 1970's. Barry among those given credit for the rebirth of the city of Hoboken. After his retirement in 1979, the company, then run by his son Joseph Barry, constructed market-rate and luxury housing throughout the state with concentration on the Hoboken and Jersey City waterfront. 
Today, the company, now called Ironstate, is run by Barry's grandsons, David Barry and Michael Barry, with their sister, Lisa Barry Fleisher, as a partner. They continue the tradition of urban redevelopment in New Jersey and now in New York City, as well. After his retirement, never having gone to college, he attended New York University's School of General Studies and obtained a bachelor's degree. He attended at the same time that his grandchildren were in university. He became active in various causes, including senior citizens issues. He was also much involved in the Jewish Community Center in West Orange. Walter Barry's wife, Marion, died in 1999. Walter is survived by sons Joseph (Gail) and Burt (Marilyn), three grandchildren David (Kira), Michael (Jennifer), and Lisa (Jonathan) Barry Fleisher, as well as nine great-grandchildren. He is also survived by his first cousin, the last of his generation, Molly Klopot of Brooklyn, 93 years of age. A memorial service was held Friday in Livingston at Bernheim Apter Kreitzman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



456 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Break Up the Banks? Here's an Alternative

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
BAILING out financial institutions deemed ''too big to fail'' has become wildly unpopular, as people across the political spectrum are now talking about splitting up America's large banks. But such breakups are probably not the best way forward, because they would penalize size instead of failure.
In light of the financial chaos after Lehman Brothers' collapse in 2008, companies of its size are now often considered too big to fail. Yet before its collapse, Lehman had a capitalization of about $60 billion, compared with the $143 billion capitalization of JPMorgan Chase last week. 
So the logic of cutting down huge institutions could mean splitting the largest ones into several pieces. Yet banks do not always come in easily divisible parts. Such a move could amount to eradicating the largest banks rather than splitting them up -- and eradication is both politically unlikely and potentially disastrous for the economy. In short, if the resulting parts of a divided bank cannot turn a profit, the split-up may prompt the very bailout it was trying to avoid.
Another fear is that American money market operations would move to larger foreign banks, which would have a newly found competitive advantage. If a financial problem arose, we would either bail out the foreign banks or rely on a foreign central bank to protect our own interests. Neither option seems appealing.
Even if a breakup went well, the incentives for the new, smaller banks would be unhealthy. Those banks could make mistakes or take on bad risks without being punished very much in terms of capitalization or revenue, because of their legally capped size. Even if they made big mistakes, these banks would probably be pushing on the frontier of maximum allowed growth. Eventually, the competitive process would cease to make these banks tougher or smarter or leaner, and we would just be cultivating another kind of banking system where bad or irresponsible decisions don't lead to financial failure.
Most important bank failures spring from correlated risks, like the bursting of a real estate bubble, that affect many banks at roughly the same time. Bailing out a large number of smaller failing banks may be easier than bailing out a smaller number of large ones, since it is easier to apply bankruptcy and the procedures of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to the smaller institutions. But that outcome hardly gets rid of bailouts.
THERE is still another problem. The more a bank is legally limited in terms of easily measurable size, the more it may resort to off-balance-sheet activities to make up the difference. ''Breaking up big banks'' may really mean making these less-transparent bank activities much more important to a bank's fate.
Maybe tough new rules for off-balance-sheet activities could limit this problem, but the overall history of financial regulation belies that view. Banks are usually wealthier, nimbler and smarter than their regulators, at least when it comes to finding loopholes in the regulations or making their moves more opaque. In any case, splitting up major banks also requires that regulators get some other significant decisions right.
There is a better alternative: expanding the liability for major financial institutions. If a shareholder invests a dollar in a big bank, why not make that shareholder liable for the first $1.50 -- or more -- of losses as insolvency approaches? In essence, we would be making the shareholders liable for the costs that bank failures impose on society, and making the banks sort out the right mixes of activities and risks. Eugene N. White, an economics professor at Rutgers University, supported a related proposal in a recent paper, ''Rethinking the Regulation of Banking: Choices or Incentives?''
This proposal would shrink the financial sector, while avoiding excess regulatory micromanagement of bank activities. But it could still be combined with other regulations, like limits on leverage, if deemed appropriate or necessary.
Unlike the ''big is bad'' view, this proposal would penalize failing banks rather than safe, successful ones that happen to be large. That's also more in accord with the American ethos of winning at business.
Under this reform, it's quite possible that we would end up with some very large and also relatively safe banks. Note that Canada, whose banking system has proved remarkably safe over the last century, relies on a small number of major banks.
In any case, the market can adjust bank sizes over time, as perceived risks to banks change, without requiring new legislation to ward off each new source of risk. It's hard for the law to win that race, especially when Congress is so fractious.
Expanded liability for bank shareholders might satisfy the Occupy Wall Street movement, and could be sold as a market-oriented, not regulatory solution; it's probably what markets would insist upon if there were no central bank and no F.D.I.C. As recently as the 1980s, the partnership structure, another alternative to limited liability, was common among investment banks -- and that hardly seemed a crippling drawback at the time.
We need to resist vengeful or ''feel good'' options for financial reform and embrace those that will really work.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GAVIN POTENZA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



457 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Leana Wen, Sebastian Walker

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
Dr. Leana Sheryle Wen and Sebastian Neil Walker were married Tuesday at Boston City Hall. Maureen E. Feeney, the Boston city clerk, officiated. On Nov. 26, the couple took part in a blessing ceremony at Webersburg Winery in Cape Town. The Rev. Kevin Needham, a Methodist minister, led the ceremony, which incorporated Chinese and South African wedding traditions.
The bride, 29, will be known as Dr. Wen-Walker. She is a third-year resident in emergency medicine at both Brigham & Women's Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. She graduated from California State University, Los Angeles, and received a medical degree from Washington University in St. Louis. She also received a master's in economic and social history from the University of Oxford, in England, where she was a Rhodes Scholar. 
She is a daughter of Xiaolu Wen of Los Angeles and the late Sandy Ying Zhang. The bride's father retired as an information technology manager for The Chinese Daily News, a daily newspaper in Los Angeles. Her mother was an elementary school teacher for the Los Angeles Unified School District.
The bridegroom, 37, is an information technology consultant to financial companies in London. He graduated from the University of Witwatersrand in Johannesburg.
He is a son of Veronica S. Walker of Johannesburg and the late Neil P. Walker. The bridegroom's mother is a property manager in Johannesburg. His father retired as a high school mathematics teacher there.
The couple met in London in August 2008. At the time, Dr. Wen, a native of Shanghai, was studying at Oxford. Her dissertation involved fieldwork in Cape Town, where she had never been. She went to the travel section of a London bookstore, and as she was browsing, a man carrying a stack of books on China approached her.
It was Mr. Walker, who asked her if she was from China, explaining that he was planning a trip there. ''I had an immediate interest in her based purely on her looks,'' he admitted.
Dr. Wen soon learned that Mr. Walker was from South Africa. ''The moment that I saw this tall, dark, handsome man approach me, I knew I was interested,'' Dr. Wen said.
It was, in essence, two people from the right two places at the right time.
They continued their conversation for two more hours in the bookstore coffee shop. During that conversation, Mr. Walker asked Dr. Wen out to dinner.
''When he asked me out to dinner, I thought, yes, I want to learn more about South Africa, and this man I had just met,'' she said.
A week later, Dr. Wen went to South Africa, and she and Mr. Walker kept in touch via e-mail. Their relationship began in earnest when she returned to Oxford that fall, but turned long distance again in June 2009, when Dr. Wen moved to Boston to begin her residency. Mr. Walker juggled his work schedule so that he could spend a week every month in Boston, racking up thousands of travel miles.
''All that traveling was extremely exhausting,'' Mr. Walker said, ''but it was worth every mile.''
In September 2010, Mr. Walker had scheduled another visit to Boston. This time, however, he showed up two days before Dr. Wen expected him, bringing with him an engagement ring.
''I kind of hid in the bushes and watched as she walked home with a friend,'' Mr. Walker recalled. ''When her friend left, I waited for her to get to her apartment, and then I called her and asked her to come back outside.''
A bit dazed and more than a bit surprised, Dr. Wen went out and saw Mr. Walker standing there. It was just past midnight.
''I was really shocked,'' she said. ''I had not expected him for several days, and I did not expect a proposal either, but I said yes right away because I knew it was right.'' VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NASTASSJA HARVEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); BOOKSTORES (86%); HISTORY (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (70%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (90%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (78%) SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



458 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3970 words

HEADLINE: The Living Nightmare

BYLINE: By BARRY BEARAK; Jack Styczynski contributed reporting.

 BODY:
THE TWO SISTERS shared a bed, and each night, with their hearts hammering, they would listen for the turn of the knob and the push of the door.
Quanitta Underwood was 10, her sister Hazzauna, 12. The walls of the house were thin, and the girls could hear every move their father made. Hear him sit up, hear him get out of bed, hear him walking their way.
Quanitta pinched her eyes shut when her father entered the room, but she could imagine the presence of his familiar silhouette. She felt his weight sink into the bed while his hands traveled beneath the covers. As Quanitta feigned sleep, her father groped her sister and often rolled on top.
Azzad Underwood was a forceful man, not so much in size as in manner. He was a welder by trade but gave way to few men in self-importance. He could be charming. He had been president of the parents association at the girls' school and was among the most active members at a local Church of God in Christ. 
Both girls loved him and trusted him, but young as they were, they realized their father was doing something on the wrong side of normal, far from Jesus.
The most important thing, Quanitta told herself, was never to let on that she knew, for this was a secret surely meant to be hidden in the dark. So she lay motionless in the bed, breathing gently through a sleeping face. Sometimes, her father pushed her aside, and she drowsily flopped over.
Then, she recalled, her strategy changed. Maybe she could protect Hazzauna by acting as if she were about to awaken. From time to time, she shifted in the bed restlessly, changing the rhythm in the sequences of her breath.
Her fear was always for her sister. Quanitta was only in the fourth grade, too young yet to imagine that Azzad would inevitably do the same things to her.
Contender and Victim
This year, for the first time, women's boxing is an Olympic event, and many regard the 27-year-old Quanitta Underwood as America's best hope for a medal. She is a five-time national champion, a lickety-split puncher ranked fourth in the world in the lightweight division (123 to 132 pounds), one of the three weight classes to be contested in the London Olympics this summer.
Monday brings Underwood to a crossroad in her dreams: the start of the United States Olympic boxing trials for women in Spokane, Wash. The three American winners then go on to an international qualifying event in Qinhuangdao, China, in May. Eight fighters in each division will advance to the Olympics.
Underwood, of course, covets a gold medal and the fame that would come with it. ''I want to take that ride,'' she says. ''I want to be a household name.''
But beyond that, she wants to be a symbol of hope to anyone who has ever been sexually abused, though to do so requires something harder for her than a thousand hours of hitting the heavy bag. She has to talk about what happened.
Underwood, whose nickname is Queen, is a deeply private person. Yet last year, she initiated a Web site called Living Out the Dream. It is all at once a portal into her life story and an example of her deep reluctance to discuss it. She mentions ''abuse and violation'' and elliptically refers to ''feeling helpless'' as a 12-year-old.
But what kind of abuse? By whom? And for how long?
In January, she was asked to relate the story in detail, and though she said yes, the agreeing proved far easier than the telling. ''This is like totally X-rated stuff,'' she said apprehensively during the first of three long interviews. How will people judge me? she fretted continually. What will they think?
Underwood had not spoken of these things even to her closest friends. ''If I don't like something, I just hold it all in,'' she said. Outside the ring, she shrinks from a fight. ''If someone tries to hurt me, I'll just take it,'' she said. ''I don't want to have confrontations. I don't want to hurt anyone's feelings.''
As she talked, she picked at her fingernails and cuticles, leaving tiny bits like crumbs on a table. She finally brushed them aside with a sweep of her hand.
''God, I can't believe I'm putting the story out there.''
The Welder
As a young man, Azzad Underwood moved from Youngstown, Ohio to Seattle, where he stayed with his brother and trained as a welder. An attractive teenage girl lived next door, and Azzad took amorous advantage. A baby girl, Hazzauna, was born in March 1982. At the time, Azzad was 21, and the child's mother, Alonna Martin, was 14.
''Back then, Azzad wasn't so bad to look at, but he was abusive and very, very manipulative,'' said Alonna, whose surname is now Craddock.
For some years, Azzad juggled the affections of two very young women, asking both to be patient as he indulged his indecision. He romanced one, then the other, then back again. In December 1983, with Alonna pregnant a second time, he married her, and Quanitta was born five months later.
But matrimony did not stop the way Azzad shuttled between the women, and at one point in the comings and goings, he presented Alonna with divorce papers, which she imprudently signed and came to regret. When Azzad left for his other companion, he departed with the legal right to raise his daughters.
''I didn't understand terms like contested or uncontested,'' said Alonna, who is now a nurse in Las Cruces, N.M. ''I had no older person to guide me. Just like that, I gave up custody of my girls.''
Azzad was a man of formidable energy. He worked two jobs but was also a devoted parent, fond of picnics, basketball and family activities at his Pentecostal church. He worshiped devoutly and made friends easily.
He was a strict disciplinarian. Good grades were demanded of his girls. Chores were to be completed without a word of back talk. Misbehavior was punished with cords and belts and switches cut from trees in the yard.
''We'd have welts on our butts and scars and stuff,'' Quanitta said.
Alonna remarried and had two other children. She rarely saw her daughters. But when the girls were still very young -- perhaps 5 and 7 -- someone alerted her to the beatings. One morning, she whisked them off the bus that brought them to school. Quanitta and Hazzauna were overjoyed to suddenly be in the embrace of their real mom. She took them to her home.
But when the authorities were asked to investigate the beatings, Alonna said, the children refused to speak out against Azzad, so that was that.
The girls were returned to the care of their father.
The Family Picture Changes
In October 1990, when Quanitta was 6 and Hazzauna 8, Azzad married Tamela Bowen, a woman he worked with at Alaskan Copper Works in Seattle. At the time, she could not believe her good fortune. ''What a responsible guy,'' she remembered thinking. Azzad was hard-working and a churchgoer, and he seemed a loving father to his daughters.
Back then, The Seattle Times ran a regular column called ''Family Portrait,'' and in December 1991, the Underwoods were featured. The depiction was uplifting. The family enjoyed ice skating and watching videos. Tamela described the first year of her marriage as ''a dream with all the pieces going together.'' Azzad showed off the couple's new baby. ''We even had a son to top it off,'' he rejoiced, extolling a marriage based on love and trust.
But the contentment proved flimsy. Azzad and Tamela were laid off at the copper works, and though he soon caught on with Boeing, that job ended, too. Money was tight and the couple frequently bickered, Tamela said.
In the summer of 1994, Azzad crowded the family into their Buick Skylark and drove east to visit relatives, first in Louisiana and then in Columbia, S.C. He billed the trip as a holiday. But the weeks turned into months, and Azzad showed no interest in returning home. He found a welding job and declared the family was staying put in Columbia.
Around then, his behavior seemed to change, Tamela said: more beer and cigarettes, less religion. He still doted on his daughters, however. Some nights, Tamela woke up and found him missing from the bed. She would peek into the hall and see Azzad in the girls' room, kneeling on the floor.
Once, she mentioned this behavior to a relative in Seattle. '''Are you sure he's not messing with them girls?''' Tamela recalled being asked
''And I said, 'No way.' ''
'It Was Rape'
The Underwoods lived in a lime green house on Great North Road. Its three bedrooms ran along a hall on the first floor, one each for the boys, the girls and the grownups. Quanitta was 10, her older sister 12. Azzad had begun groping Hazzauna months before in Seattle. Now, even as his daughters slept side by side in a queen-size bed, he was more aggressive yet.
''I remember the first time ever; he held me down,'' Hazzauna said. ''It was rape. There's no other word for it. Every time after that, it seemed he purposely did it in the room with my sister, because he knew that if I moved or screamed, she was right there and it would wake her up.''
But Quanitta heard everything. For a while, she feigned sleep. Then she feigned becoming wakeful, each time fidgeting more and more until Azzad finally entered the bedroom only to fetch Hazzauna and leave.
Tamela had begun working a night shift at McDonald's. Azzad could be more brazen.
Fearing for her sister, Quanitta schemed. How can I stop this, she wondered. ''When Hazzauna would get dragged out of the room, I'd get up, go to the bathroom, flush the toilet, make noise, knock on doors, ask where's she's at,'' she said. ''He'd make her tell me, 'Go to sleep. Everything's O.K.' ''
Sometimes, Quanitta said, her sister would return to the room weeping. But whatever happened during the night went unmentioned during the day, the unspeakable acts by their very nature confined to a fearsome silence.
Hazzauna's shame was her deepest secret and yet she felt the defilement left her oddly transparent. ''In class, you feel like you are being stared at, because you feel gross, like something is wrong with you,'' she said.
Hazzauna has a family of her own now, and she too works as a nurse in Las Cruces. In college, she studied child abuse, the methodologies of molesters and the horrid frequency with which molestation occurs. And while she said she now found it ''empowering'' to talk of what happened, tears seeped from her eyes as she revisited the memories: Azzad was her demon and her father, a man callously conniving and yet strangely pitiable.
She recalled, ''On multiple occasions, he would cry like a baby, saying, 'I'm sorry. I want to stop but just give me an amount of time.' ''
Her father bribed her with clothes and other gifts. He threw her an expensive birthday party at a skating rink. He persuaded her to take up modeling, escorting her to competitions, where they shared a room in a hotel.
As the years went by, Hazzauna longed for the life of a normal teenager, to spend more time with friends, to attend parties, to stay out late. Azzad extracted favors in return for his permission. ''My father forced me to give him oral sex so that I could go out on a date to the movies,'' she said.
He had other ways to make her submit. If Hazzauna denied him what he wanted, he threatened to turn instead to Quanitta.
This was the older girl's greatest fear. No matter what happened, she was determined to protect her sister.
So time and again, Hazzauna made Azzad promise to leave Quanitta alone.
And repeatedly, he gave his word.
The Police Arrive
Quanitta said she was in the seventh grade when Azzad began to molest her, always taking advantage of a time when neither his wife nor Hazzauna was at home. ''I would lock my arms and squeeze my legs tight,'' she said, describing efforts to constrain what her father could do.
Both sisters fantasized about escape. Hazzauna hoped to one day go to college in Washington. Quanitta had darker ideas. She thought about hurting Azzad -- ''using a knife or something'' -- then running away.
What neither did was confide in the other. But that changed in January 1998. The sisters were 13 and 15. Quanitta was terribly upset about something. Hazzauna already had suspicions. She finally asked the question.
''Has he been touching you?'' she said, and the scalding truth poured out.
By then, the sisters were seldom in contact with their mother in Seattle. But they did have a number for the hospital where she worked.
The things Hazzauna told Alonna were dumfounding.
''How long has he been doing this?'' the girls' mother recalled asking.
''Forever,'' Hazzauna answered.
The police arrived at the Underwood home within an hour. This time, the girls were willing to tell the truth. Azzad was at work, but Tamela was there. She remembered collapsing and bawling, her shock compounded by shame: ''How could I have been so clueless?''
While married to Azzad, Tamela had given birth to three of his children. But their relationship had soured toward the end. ''He would come to me, and I wouldn't deny him,'' she said. ''He was my husband, but it wasn't so often.''
In the urgency of the moment, Tamela helped the girls pack, drove them to a hotel to spend the night and put them on a flight to Seattle the next day.
She said, ''The least I could do was get them on an airplane.''
Pleas From Prison
Azzad pleaded guilty to ''criminal sexual conduct with a minor.'' He was sentenced to seven years in prison and five years of probation. The penalty could have been stiffer. The judge asked various people to speak in court. Hazzauna and Quanitta said they did not want their dad to go to jail.
Before the proceeding, Azzad had gone to Seattle to see the girls secretly. Quanitta recalled meeting him in a car in the parking lot of a Sears. He begged forgiveness. He said counseling could cleanse his desires.
While in prison, he wrote apologetic letters to his daughters. God was back in his life, he proclaimed. He wanted absolution -- and perhaps some money he might use for candy and soda at the canteen. Quanitta did not answer him.
Hazzauna did. ''Initially, I felt obligated to help him,'' she said. ''I felt bad for him. So a couple of times I sent him $100. Then I stopped.''
The Ring Beckons
The girls were given counseling, but the psychic wounds were not so easy to cauterize. They were living with their mother, and ''we pretty much acted like nothing had ever happened,'' Quanitta said. The idea was for things to be normal. ''But what does normal mean?'' she wanted to know.
In high school, Quanitta was a so-so student but a superb athlete. She played basketball and was one of the best sprinters in the state. Several college coaches wanted to give her a scholarship, but she lapsed in and out of depression during her senior year and wanly ignored the offers, she said.
After graduation, she felt adrift, unable to chart any purposeful future, absent any aptitude for happiness. She was involved in a stormy relationship and thought about suicide, even making a half-hearted attempt by swallowing a dozen or so capsules of ibuprofen, enough to feel sick for days.
Her mother moved to California; Hazzauna was at college. Quanitta felt lonely and damaged. She enlisted in the Air Force but reneged on the commitment before entering boot camp. She fell in with a new crowd. She said, ''Life was all about where we'd get weed, where we'd get a drink, what party we'd go to.''
Finally, in a moment of kismet, an offhand remark changed her life. A friend mentioned a place in Seattle's central district called Cappy's Boxing Gym.
There wasn't much to it: an undersize ring, the usual ropes, bags and pulleys, the stink of sweat. But to a forlorn 19-year-old, it was an enticing corner of the world. She had power-lifted in high school. Boxing was something that excited her. She liked the feel of her hands in the gloves.
Cappy Kotz, the owner, once boxed in Montana. He said he had never seen a better natural talent than Quanitta: the well-defined musculature, the economy of movement, the extraordinary flash of speed. He thought he could turn a great athlete into a great fighter, but she was starting late and it would take time.
Quanitta boxed as Queen, a nickname given to her by a childhood friend. She lost her first bout and a good many after that. She said she could not recall the number: ''I stopped counting at nine.''
In her first big tournament, the 2006 nationals, she was eliminated on Day 1, moving sluggishly in her bout, punching as if she were underwater. She then had to spend several frustrating days sitting in the stands, watching the other fighters advance through the bracket.
This was devastating. She pouted. And yet before the week ended, she was able to transform the disappointment into determination. She promised herself she would become a more precise puncher, to think more strategically within the ropes.
Kotz considered it a metamorphosis. He said, ''She stepped out of her skin and became something new.''
An Unseen Opponent
To earn a living, Quanitta had entered a five-year apprenticeship as a pipefitter, but even after lugging heavy metal tubes all day, she would put in her hours at the gym. She won her first national amateur title in 2007 and then added four more. As she became a better boxer, she matured as a person. ''People gravitate toward her; she's charismatic, charming,'' Kotz said.
He and Quanitta had a falling-out last year; she wanted to switch to coaches more familiar with international competition. He is 56 and comes across like the crusty but wise trainer played by Burgess Meredith in ''Rocky.''
Kotz knew she was molested as a child, though not the details. He thought the abuse was an albatross that sometimes kept her in an ''emotional holding pattern.'' By his reckoning, she has posttraumatic stress like a war veteran, allowing certain smells and sounds to propel her into the past. In the ring, it meant she often allowed herself to be pushed around in a clinch.
''She has trouble with messy boxers, who push you and shove you,'' he said. ''To win, you have to dominate. She scores points because she is so fast, but she is not a slugger. Sometimes, you have to be down and dirty.''
His field is boxing, of course, not psychology. And Quanitta has proved herself a champion. But other savvy observers said much the same, that her inner strength had yet to match her physical gifts. She fights scared.
And yet there was one unforgettable bout in 2010 that seemed to foretell greatness. In a semifinal at the world championships in Barbados, Queen was matched against Katie Taylor of Ireland, considered by some to be the top amateur boxer in the world, male or female.
As expected, Taylor jumped out to a 10-2 lead with classic scoring combinations. But then Quanitta began to brawl, landing one haymaker to the head after another. Taylor became exhausted trying to defend herself and fell to the canvas with fatigue. Cannier than Quanitta, she recovered, scoring with jabs as the fight ended and barely winning, 18-16.
Basheer Abdullah, a past United States coach in the Olympics, was in Quanitta's corner that day. He said he remembered what he shouted at her in the seconds before she unleashed the barrage. He called out, ''What are you afraid of?''
The Welder at 51
Azzad's sentence was cut to six years, and he left prison in August 2005. He lives in a modern apartment complex in Columbia, S.C., working again as a welder. A painting of Jesus stares from the wall above his kitchen table.
He is 51 now, wearing bifocals, his shirt straining over an expanding middle. He vacillated about being interviewed. ''I've already done enough harm to those children,'' he said. Then he agreed to talk on condition that his older sister Ameenah be present. ''She helped me through my ordeal,'' he said.
His answers were often spare, a nod followed by ''O.K.'' or ''no comment.'' He refused to discuss the molesting of his daughters but made no effort to deny it. Being arrested was a relief, he said: ''I was struggling between two forces. I wanted to do right but instead I did wrong. That's it in a nutshell.''
Then Azzad amended the thought. It's more complicated than that, he said. The counselors in prison made him aware of how the mind creates justifications to tolerate its own misdeeds. ''When you do things for a long time that you know to be wrong, you come to think that it's right,'' he said.
Aberrant behavior may have detectable roots. When he was a boy, Azzad said, he delivered newspapers, and a man on his route abused him, ''sexually, repeatedly.'' A second cousin had also molested him.
But he said he was not mentioning these traumas as an excuse: ''Whether that was a contributing factor, I still need to be held accountable.''
Azzad shook his head, wrung his hands. ''I wouldn't want my worst enemy to go through what I've been through, being torn from job, family, kids, the whole works,'' he said, and his sister Ameenah added, ''That's right.''
'I Became Strong'
Quanitta (now better known as Queen), her hair braided, her smile wide, her voice playful, is something to behold. People take to her right away.
At the United States Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs, while walking through the dining hall, she tossed off hellos, a real presence. Then she went and sat by herself, outgoing and withdrawn at the same time.
For the past six months, everything in her life besides boxing was put off: relationships, family, the $38 an hour she could earn installing pipe. Quanitta took only a few things with her to Colorado. King, her beloved 2-year-old bull mastiff, was left with dog sitters found on Craigslist.
The Olympics are expected to catapult women's boxing into the limelight. If an American wins a medal, fame will probably follow, with endorsements and perhaps even lucrative bouts as a professional.
''I'm working harder than I've ever worked before,'' Quanitta said. ''To fail now, after what I've given up, I just don't even want to think about it.''
The unburdening of her family history proved a burden in itself these past weeks. Some people shared more details than Quanitta was willing to reveal. She asked that certain particulars be kept private, and they have been.
''I don't think I'll read the story, not with the Olympic trials so close,'' she said two weeks ago. ''I can't have distractions.''
Quanitta, a girl who felt like a nobody, always imagined there was a somebody within. That's why she called her Web site Living Out the Dream.
''I would close my eyes and just dream about having a different life, because I thought that if I had this thing, this success, I'd feel like I was at a point of starting over,'' she said. ''That dream carried me through a lot of days.''
She paused for a second, then continued purposefully: ''I can be an example. I am a survivor of child abuse, and I became strong and independent.''
Azzad visited Seattle two years ago, and Quanitta reluctantly agreed to see him for the first time in a decade. She had no interest in reconciliation. Actually, she was tired of his ''whole remorse story,'' she said.
''There's no way to look at him and say he's a good person.''
She considered the meeting to be something like a final goodbye. She did not want to be alone with him, so she recruited an aunt and cousins to come along. They met Azzad on Broadway Avenue in the Capitol Hill district and then everyone set off toward a popular eatery called Dick's.
As she walked beside her father, she sized him up. He was trying to look cool, dressing young, Quanitta thought. She herself was ''thugged out,'' wearing baggy clothes and Timberland boots.
It was odd to be beside him now. She intended her every movement to make a statement. She walked with a swagger -- ''wanting to look tough'' -- as if she were entering the boxing ring.
Azzad was much smaller than she remembered and nowhere near as fit as she was. In the passing of time, the physical equation had changed, and a satisfying notion popped into her head.
If she wanted to, she could flatten him, no problem.
2012 LONDON: The Path To The Summer Olympics

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: QUANITTA UNDERWOOD, U.S. Olympic boxing hopeful (SP1)
Quanitta Underwood may be America's best hope for a medal when women's boxing is contested for the first time in the London Olympics this summer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN EDMONDS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Underwood's older sister, Hazzauna, left, and her mother, Alonna Craddock, above. At top, a family photograph of Hazzauna, left, Alonna, center, and Quanitta. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IVAN PIERRE AGUIRRE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP6)
Quanitta Underwood, 27, began boxing late, at 19. ''To fail now, after what I've given up, I just don't even want to think about it,'' she said.
Underwood, a lightweight ranked fourth in the world, has won five national amateur championships. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACK DEMPSEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (SP7) GRAPHICS (SP6
 SP7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); BOXING (85%); WOMEN (77%); RANKINGS (74%); RELIGION (72%); SPORTS AWARDS (66%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); HEBEI, CHINA (51%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



459 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Struggling Cities Turn to a Crop for Cash

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
OAKLAND, Calif. -- As the stubborn economic downturn has forced this city to take painful steps to balance its budget in recent years, it has increasingly turned to one of its newer industries to raise much-needed revenues: medical marijuana dispensaries.
The city has raised taxes on marijuana dispensaries several times in the past few years, and last year it collected $1.4 million in taxes from them -- nearly 3 percent of all the business taxes it collected. Now Oakland plans to double the number of dispensaries it licenses, to eight from the current four, in the hopes that it can collect even more revenue. 
''This is general fund revenue -- it all goes into the melting pot,'' said David McPherson, the city's tax and revenue administrator. ''When you're making decisions about what to continue keeping or not, it goes into that decision process. If you don't have that money, then you're making other decisions about 'Are we going to close the libraries on Monday?' 'Are you going to end up cutting a cop?' 'Are you not giving funds to our arts and things that help our kids?' ''
Sometimes lost in the discussion of medical marijuana is the extent to which it has become a small but growing source of new tax collections for cities and states that have been struggling to balance their budgets for more than four years now.
Colorado Springs collected more than $700,000 in taxes from the medical marijuana industry in 2011. It is not a lot of money for a big city. But given the harsh steps the city has taken in recent years -- in 2010 it shut off a third of its streetlights to save $1.2 million -- every bit helps.
Denver collected more than $3.4 million last year from sales tax and application and license fees, according to preliminary figures. The State of Colorado collected $5 million in sales tax from medical marijuana businesses last year, more than twice what it collected the year before.
Taxing marijuana is a relatively new field, and cities and states are taking different approaches to raising revenues.
Maine decided that medical marijuana should be subjected to the state's 5 percent sales tax -- unless the marijuana is baked into brownies. In that case, it is taxed at a higher 7 percent rate that the state levies on prepared foods.
Oregon closed a budget gap last year in part by raising the annual fees it charges people with doctors' notes to join the state's medical marijuana program. In October, the state doubled the fee to $200 a year -- with reduced fees available to people on food stamps -- to raise an estimated $6.7 million a year to pay for other health programs.
Of course, some of the money raised must be used to administer the medical marijuana programs and, in some cases, to increase regulation of the industry.
Budget planners always deal in uncertainties like whether tax revenues will rebound or how much it will really cost to provide services. But projecting medical marijuana revenues adds other layers of complications, including whether the federal government will shut down the dispensaries that state and local governments have decided to allow.
After signaling in 2009 that it would not normally pursue groups providing marijuana to sick patients, the Justice Department has cracked down on dispensaries in a number of states in recent months. The Internal Revenue Service has targeted a number of dispensaries that pay federal taxes as well, arguing that they are not entitled to the regular business deductions they have claimed because they should be considered drug trafficking organizations.
It has made life complicated for cities.
''What we do know is the federal government has made it complicated and the state government has made it complicated and it all flows downhill to us,'' said Mayor Chuck Reed of San Jose, Calif., which collects about $2.5 million in taxes from the 100 marijuana dispensaries that have opened in the city.
Here in Oakland, medical marijuana is booming. Just a few blocks from City Hall is Oaksterdam University, which offers training for people in the industry with classes in state and federal law, civics, legal business structures and various ''methods of ingestion.''
The biggest dispensary in the city by far, Harborside Health Center, has 104,000 customers and employs 120 people, 90 percent of whom are from Oakland, in well-paying jobs with good benefits.
Its executive director, Stephen DeAngelo, helped lead the movement several years ago to have the city tax the marijuana industry. ''At that time, the city was talking about closing down some really beloved institutions,'' he said, adding that Oakland's fiscal plight led the center to think about ways of helping the city. ''What better way of doing that than with a tax?''
But when the city tripled the tax rate to 5 percent in 2010, he worried. ''I thought 5 percent was a bit excessive,'' Mr. DeAngelo said, but he added that the center was able to absorb the costs. Now, he said, the center is among the biggest taxpayers in Oakland.
Oakland will probably not be able to double its tax collections by doubling the number of dispensaries. Mr. McPherson, the city tax administrator, said that in many cases the same pool of medical marijuana users would simply be choosing from more places. But opening a dispensary near the Berkeley border, he said, might capture some of the Oakland residents who currently go to a dispensary in Berkeley.
Mr. McPherson said the city stood to reap more of what he called the ''secondary benefits.''
''You've got accountants that are working for them, you've got all the security companies that are working for them, you have labs that are working for them, you have bakeries that are baking all the edibles, you have union employees that are getting great benefits, you have delivery services, hydroponic stores, doctors get some benefit,'' he said. ''It's the secondary market that gains from this, and all of those pay business taxes to us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A customer buying medical marijuana in Oakland, Calif. The city collected $1.4 million in taxes from dispensaries last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); SALES TAX (89%); HERBAL MEDICINE (89%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



460 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; TAX TIPS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Introducing Form 8949, And Other Changes

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
CAPITAL gains are always welcome, but reporting them this year may seem like a capital pain. That is because of new rules on what the Internal Revenue Service calls ''cost basis reporting.''
The rules, which came into effect for 2011 tax returns, require a new form, 8949, for listing individual transactions. And that's not all. You still need to fill out Schedule D for reporting capital gains and losses, and brokers are required to report cost basis, as well as sales price, on Form 1099-B for 2011 transactions. The 1099-B goes to the I.R.S., as well as to taxpayers.
''Don't wait until filing to figure it out,'' said Brian Keil, director of cost basis and tax reporting at Charles Schwab in San Francisco. Open your broker's Form 1099-B as soon as you receive it, he said, and be sure that what the broker shows as the cost basis for any stocks bought and sold last year matches your own records. That's important, he added, because there are different ways to report cost basis when a shareholder has several blocks of the same issue. 
Schwab uses the I.R.S. default method of ''first in, first out,'' for stocks -- that is, it uses the cost of the first block bought for the first block sold. For mutual funds, it uses average cost, Mr. Keil said. But individual investors can choose to identify in writing a specific lot when selling part of a holding -- and that can be beneficial, if, for example, they have a big loss on one sale and want to take a big gain on another, using the loss to offset it.
If you find that the records don't match, you can speak with your broker and ask for a corrected 1099-B.
Bill Fleming, a managing director of PricewaterhouseCoopers in Hartford, said that errors on tracking cost basis were common and that it was important to start early to be sure the records matched.
Barbara Weltman, a tax lawyer in Millwood, N.Y., who is the contributing editor to ''J. K. Lasser's Your Income Tax 2012,'' said taxpayers who receive 1099-Bs that they believe are erroneous should attach a statement to that effect to their returns or ''go on extension'' -- that is, submit Form 4868 for a six-month automatic extension to file while sorting out the matter with their brokers.
Going on extension does not invite an audit, she said, but a return with information that does not match the 1099-B that the I.R.S. has received from the broker will be questioned. Schwab has more information and a video on the topic at its Web site.
Any taxes due for 2011 should be paid by April 17; the extension is for filing, not for paying. So while trying to match records with your broker's, you could take one of two approaches. First, you could pay a bit extra, just to make sure that you're O.K. (and get a refund later). Or, in what may be the better option in this case, pay what you have calculated as the proper amount and wait for the corrected 1099 so that the I.R.S. will already have it when you file the return.
This year, Mr. Keil said, the new reporting requirements will be phased in for mutual funds, most exchange-traded funds and dividend reinvestment plans. In future years, they will be phased in for other securities.
Here are some other areas where taxpayers may face tax-law changes for 2011, or where they may need to remember some money-saving tips:
NATURAL DISASTERS Last year was a year of wicked weather, from the tornado that laid waste to much of Joplin, Mo., in May, to Hurricane Irene on the East Coast in late August. Many taxpayers expect that they will at least get some tax relief for the losses they suffered. But many will be disappointed, Ms. Weltman said.
Casualty losses are deductible only to the extent that the losses, after any insurance reimbursement, exceed 10 percent of adjusted gross income plus $100 per event. People who do have a deductible loss should report it on Form 4684.
If the loss occurred in 2011 from a federally declared disaster, Ms. Weltman said, a taxpayer can report it on the 2011 return or file an amended return, Form 1040X, for 2010 and take the loss on it. Taxpayers would need to calculate the results for both years to discover which was more favorable.
Taxpayers can find a list of federally declared disasters at www.fema.gov.
ROTH CONVERSIONS Many people took advantage of a special opportunity to convert regular I.R.A.'s to Roth I.R.A.'s in 2010, while delaying paying the income tax on the money withdrawn until filing returns for 2011 and 2012, Mr. Fleming said, and some need a reminder that it's now time to start paying the taxes.
Sidney Kess, a C.P.A and tax lawyer at Kostelanetz & Fink in New York, said a Roth rollover might be beneficial in 2012, because Congressional action late in 2010 kept in effect the tax cuts enacted in the administration of George W. Bush. But Mr. Kess notes that unless Congress acts again, rates will rise in 2013 to the levels prevailing in 2001. For people in the top bracket, that means 39.6 percent versus the current 35 percent.
A Roth I.R.A. is funded with after-tax money, but when retirement distributions are made, they are tax free. Further, unlike other retirement accounts, Roths have no minimum distribution requirements after age 70 1/2, and there are decided advantages when leaving them to heirs.
Still, several factors need to be considered in deciding whether to convert: whether you have other money available to pay the tax due on the money withdrawn from the regular I.R.A., whether you have enough time until retirement for the account to grow enough to make up for that tax payment, and whether you will need the money in retirement or hope to leave the I.R.A. to heirs.
WATCHING THE TAX CLOCK No one knows whether 2013 will indeed bring a reversion to 2001 tax rates, or whether there will be a new law, possibly hammered out late this year in a lame-duck session of Congress. But no one interviewed expects rates to drop, and most tax practitioners expect them to go up.
Consequently, they advise taking advantage of opportunities in 2012 that may not be available to taxpayers in future years.
Mr. Kess recommended that investors consider recognizing capital gains this year, especially if they are carrying forward capital losses that can offset them. Long-term capital gains rates for affluent investors are now 15 percent, but are scheduled to go to 20 percent in 2013. And for upper-income taxpayers, a new 3.8 percent Medicare tax on investment income is to begin.
Business owners who buy equipment this year may take an immediate deduction of up to $250,000 under Section 179, Mr. Kess said, rather than depreciating it over several years. The Section 179 deduction for 2012 is generous by historical standards and could well be lowered in future years.
FOREIGN ASSETS Many people, especially those who have lived and worked abroad, have foreign investments. Mr. Fleming said, and the I.R.S. has new reporting requirements for them. A married couple filing jointly who had foreign assets worth $100,000 at the end of 2011 or worth $150,000 at any time last year must attach Form 8938 to their return. More information on the topic is at the I.R.S. Web site.
Julian Block, a tax lawyer in Larchmont, N.Y., notes three areas where you may be able to take advantage of tax breaks:
MEDICAL EXPENSES Because these expenses are deductible only to the extent that they exceed 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income, many people have ceased to think of them as a potential deduction. But in these tough economic times, he said, people with falling incomes may find that they qualify.
Some taxpayers are supporting adult children and elderly relatives. If those people meet the tests for being claimed as dependents, their medical expenses can be included. Allowable medical expenses include mileage for driving to appointments -- 19 cents a mile for the first half of last year and 23.5 cents for the second, he said.
Most married couples file jointly, Mr. Block said, but if one had big medical expenses and the other did not, it may be advantageous to select the status ''married filing separately.'' You'll need to calculate the returns both ways to know which is better.
HOME OFFICES To be eligible for deductions, a home office, which could be just part of a room, must be used regularly and exclusively for work essential to the business. The business need not be full time; it may be a moonlighting activity pursued by an employed person.
Say that someone uses the office to schedule appointments, keep records and send bills but travels to clients' sites to perform services -- whether repairing plumbing or attending board meetings. The travel expenses are also deductible; without an office, they are not.
SALES TAXES People who itemize deductions may deduct either state income taxes or sales taxes. The sales-tax option is generally for people in states like Texas, Florida and South Dakota that do not levy state income taxes.
But Mr. Block said that retirees in many states -- New York and Michigan for example -- get income-tax breaks on Social Security and pension income, so they may have a larger deduction for sales tax, especially if they have made a large purchase like a car.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY KOREN SHADMI)(BU13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); INCOME TAX (79%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); LAWYERS (50%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



461 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Why Do We Still Care About the Dow?

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is a co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
One day in October 2006, my editor gave me the same assignment that hundreds of other editors were giving their business writers. He told me to go to a trading floor to witness the magical moment when the Dow Jones Industrial Average passed 12,000 points. He may have envisioned cheers, shouts, balloons, traders cutting one another's ties and (this being 2006) dousing one another in Cristal. Instead, the traders obliviously entered orders into their computers while I stood around looking for the story.
It got me thinking: Why do we still care so much about the Dow? It remains not only a rough measure of stock performance but also the most frequently checked, and cited, proxy of U.S. economic health. It's clear why we used to care. In the postwar boom of the 1950s, the economy was growing so fast, and the benefits were so widely shared, that following 30 large American companies was a solid measure of most everyone's personal economy. Back then, the U.S. was a largely self-sufficient country, so Asian or European economic troubles didn't matter much. There was less national inequality, and everyone's income tended to move in the same direction. What was good for G.M. really was good for the country. 
By the late 1990s, however, the Dow stopped being an indicator of how our economy was doing. Instead, it became the driving force. During the frothing of the tech bubble, the hottest companies weren't making money by selling profitable products and services in the real world -- they were selling fantasies to stock investors. The Dow's rise (along with that of its more unpredictable younger brother, Nasdaq) hid a historic fracturing: one lucky group, enriched in part by the instant wealth of the bubble, saw its income grow faster than ever while the middle and lower classes' share of national income was declining. The fortunes of a few top companies represented opportunity for a much smaller number of Americans.
It would be extremely convenient if there were still one number or index we could check to make sense of our economy, especially during times of chaos. But the stock market might actually be our worst option. Rather than being a useful indicator, it's an anxiety-amplification device. It reflects investors' own reactions, and often hysterical overreactions, as they progress through the turmoil. It's also not without intrinsic randomness. The Dow average, drawn out to two decimal places, may seem like some perfectly scientific number, but it's far from it. A small committee selects 30 big companies -- I.B.M., G.E., McDonald's, Disney and so forth -- and then adds up the price of their stocks. Then the analysts divide it by the Dow Divisor, a misleadingly precise-seeming number formulated to account for things like dividends and splits that right now is, well, about 0.132129493. The resulting figure is repeated throughout the country.
And those are the least of the Dow's problems. More troubling is that it ignores the overall size of companies and pays attention to only their share prices. This causes all sorts of oddities. ExxonMobil, for example, divides its value into nearly five billion lower-cost shares, while Caterpillar has around 650 million more expensive ones. Therefore ExxonMobil, one of the largest companies in history, pulls less weight on the Dow than a company less than a fifth its size.
The Dow doesn't adjust for inflation either. Passing 12,000 points, as it did in early 2011, is incorrectly considered the equivalent to that supposedly magical moment in 2006, especially because we were in a bubble then and are coming out of a recession now. The Dow is also reluctant to add or subtract new companies. (Apple, perhaps America's model corporation, is not a member. Microsoft, by some measures its predecessor, still is.) It also, by design, ignores all sorts of things that influence daily economic life. Large-scale layoffs, which can reduce cost, often move the Dow up; environmental concerns don't factor.
Yet the Dow's biggest flaw, perhaps, is that it doesn't help us to make sense of an increasingly interconnected global economy -- one in which what's good for G.M. isn't always good for the country. G.E., I.B.M and Intel, for example, all make more than half their profits in other countries. And while this may be great for their shareholders, it means little for most Americans.
Still, some argue that the stock market reflects the overall wisdom of the world's investors. That may be true when looked at over months or years, but it's never quite clear what their wisdom is telling us at any given moment. Panic in Europe might have investors terrified about the next few months, sending stock prices down. But that downward move could be obscuring the fact that those same investors feel chipper about the economy 2 or 10 years down the road. Alternately, investors might feel very badly about the long-term future of the U.S. economy but are excited because, say, that afternoon the Fed announced a low-interest-rate policy. A stock order doesn't contain a ''reason'' field.
None of these criticisms will come as news to finance professionals, most of whom use far more precise measures -- like the S&P 500 or the Wilshire 5,000, which cover more companies more precisely -- when making investing decisions. In fact, they might not even surprise Charles Dow, who created the Industrial Average in 1896. Dow observed his own index infrequently, says John Prestbo, the editor and executive director of Dow Jones Indexes, who also happens to play the role of in-house historian. Prestbo says the average investor should observe the Dow once a quarter or, at most, once a month. He also cautions against drawing broad conclusions about the overall health of the economy from any narrowly focused stock average. This is particularly true when, for the first time in a while, the economy is truly worth worrying about. And it's even more true when a twitchy financial system is being monitored by a twitchy index perfectly suited to a 24-hour news cycle. One thing is obvious: Charles Dow would have made a terrible cable-news editor.
THE ENGLISH-TO-DOW DICTIONARY
Deciphering the annoying, and often meaningless, language of cable-news reporters.
1. ''Markets rallied on the heels of better-than-expected economic data.''
Translation: A single data point has persuaded thousands of investors to buy stocks today.
2. ''Can individual stocks rally amid the macro sell-off?''
Translation: Is there any good news today?
3. ''I want to drill down on the technicals.''
Translation: Let's talk about a chart.
4. ''Can the S&P hold onto its gains this month?''
Translation: Can you see into the future?
Deep thoughts this week:
1. The Dow used to be a solid measure of the U.S. economy.
2. But it went from being an indicator to a driving force.
3. F.Y.I: Many traders have known this for years.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ANDREW RAE) (MM14
MM16)
 CHART: The Dow Graveyard: Famous companies that have been booted from the D.J.I.A. (MM16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



462 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; VOYAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 5387 words

HEADLINE: Where Hope And history Don't Rhyme

BYLINE: By JOHN JEREMIAH SULLIVAN

 BODY:
Ireland starts for me with the end of ''The Dead,'' which my father read to me from his desk in his basement office in New Albany, Ind. I don't remember what age I was -- feels like it could have happened anytime between the 6th and 11th birthdays -- but I picture the scene with a strange, time-slurred clarity of detail. His offices were always in the basement, because that's where he could smoke his endless, extra-long menthols, exhaling nasally over the red mustache. I can smell it in his sweat when he bends down to kiss me goodbye, and I smell it in this room. I also note cat urine, because our vicious, lonely old calico, Skipper, tends to relieve herself on the dark green chair in the corner when stressed, and the scent has soaked into the stuffing, and my father won't throw away the chair, because it belonged to his father. 
The mottled surface of the desk where he writes is dark green, almost black, and glowing green are the little letters on the screen of the primitive Tandy word processor the newspaper has given him, and an excellent forest green is the cover of ''The Portable James Joyce,'' my mother's Penguin paperback from college. He's holding it close to his face. He was blind in one eye and couldn't see especially well out of the other, wore dark-framed, vaguely government-issue glasses, but they're lowered, he's turning his head and squinting over the top of them. He reads me the famous last paragraph, ''The time had come for him to set out on his journey westward. . . .'' Nothing of the actual language remained with me, except, years later, reading the story at school, there was something like deja vu at the part where Joyce first says the snow was ''falling faintly,'' then four words later says it was, ''faintly falling.'' The slight overconspicuousness of that had stuck, as I suppose he intended.
That memory found me again last year, while I sat outside a hotel on the Aran Islands, off the west coast of Ireland, talking to the night manager and having the first cigarette I allowed myself in a long time. I gave in for once not out of anxiety but from sheer good mood. After four days in the country, my jet lag hadn't corrected by as much as an hour, but it was pleasant to find that Chris Gwiazda, the night manager, made good company. Not just that, but he had keys to the bar. In fact, he was also a bartender. If any locals wandered in at 3 in the morning, as happened, Chris would open the bar and serve them. And if they caught him in the middle of a short nap on the sofa in the lobby, they knew to shake him awake. ''It's great,'' he said. ''It makes my night go faster.''
He was, I thought, one of the most authentically Irish-seeming guys I'd ever met, apart from his being Ukrainian. His family left before the Orange Revolution, and now they were scattered all over. A lot of his (very good) English was perfected in Ireland: his Ukrainian accent had an Irish accent. I can't describe it, but it suited him. He seemed to be going through life quietly, good-naturedly laughing at how charming he was. He set up two chairs in front of the hotel, with a view of the harbor and the moon, which was either full or almost full, the moon over the dark jutting silhouette of the Aran Islands, a thing I'd always hoped to see. He told highly convincing wee-hours bar stories that can't be printed but that had a way of involving ''beautiful, insane'' tourist women who nearly caused him to be late for work.
A couple of older gentlemen showed up at one point, in jackets and caps. We went inside, so he could take care of them. I sat at the other end of the bar and tried to spy on their conversation a bit, but they spoke in low, grumbly tones, and the English in the western part of Ireland can be so heavily inflected with Gaelic rhythms that it's often hard to tell it apart from the Irish language -- you see tourists, having passed some natives and overheard a chance remark, turn to each other and whisper, ''That's Irish,'' when what the woman said, if your ear had been given time to adjust, was something like, ''Don't open the gate yet, idiot!''
When they left, we went back outside, and I asked Chris about them. ''Well,'' he said, ''they used to be fishermen.'' But the fisheries had been declining for some time, partly due to overfishing, and ''when the Tiger came'' -- by which he meant the Celtic Tiger, the mainly technology-fueled economic boom that began in the mid-1990s and transformed Ireland, before the collapse three years ago of a catastrophic housing bubble -- ''a lot more tourists were coming here. So a lot of the fishermen sold their boats and bought minibuses.'' It was the easiest fishing on earth: you just picked them up at the dock. But it didn't come naturally to the men, dealing with outsiders. ''These are island people,'' Chris said. Often they would simply herd people onto the minibus, drive them to the main sites, mumble a few unintelligible words and drop them off again, demanding money. People complained, but the ex-fishermen complained harder, at the bar. Many of them regretted giving up their boats, especially now that tourism has gone back to the old decent-but-sleepy levels.
I passed rows of these minibuses, each with its own bored-looking owner standing by the open driver's-side door, on the way from the dock to the hotel. One man gave me the look, asking if I needed a ride, but when I said, ''I'm just going to the hotel,'' he said, ''Aye,'' and looked relieved, folding his arms back and looking off, even though it turned out that the hotel was perhaps farther than a person would want to walk with an awkward, heavy suitcase, and he could easily have talked me into it. Something in him hadn't wanted to. That something is in part what draws travelers to the Aran Islands: it takes an independent character to live perversely on three spits of barren limestone in the north Atlantic, the way they do, in a place where you couldn't even grow spuds unless you created your own sad scrum soil with a kind of layered-kelp composting. If they were to suddenly offer to braid your hair or be smilingly hustling you onto group tours, it would spoil the effect. You go to the Aran Islands expecting to keep a certain distance from the population.
There was an obvious affection in Chris's voice as he spoke about the locals. He saw that they could be funny, but he never made fun. He didn't sound like an outsider. ''I feel Irish now,'' he said. More than that, he felt like an Aran Islander. ''Even Galway seems strange to me now when I go to the mainland,'' he said. Everyone seemed in a hurry. ''And I don't know, they're just different,'' he said.
He wanted a house, was the thing; he was feeling maybe too old for roommates. And it was frustrating, he said, because there were empty houses on the islands, more than ever in fact. During the Tiger years, many people built and acquired second homes here, and since the crash, plenty of these places were empty, ''just standing there for years,'' Chris said. He and some of the other ''blow-ins'' had approached the owners and asked to be caretakers, to live there purely in exchange for upkeep. ''We said, 'We'll sign a paper that says: ''I give up all right to the house once you come back. You show up, I'm out.'' Plus, your property isn't falling apart.' '' But most owners weren't interested. They wanted what was theirs and were clinging to it. Chris looked out at the water thoughtfully, but I gathered he wasn't that worried. His patience was right for this place. He would stay until something happened.
''Marry a girl from Galway?'' I asked.
''Or not,'' he said, and twinkled.
I landed in Dublin a few days before, having not been in Ireland, other than the airport, since I lived there as a 20-year-old, working in a restaurant, during whatever you call the life phase in which you try to reconnect with your roots -- though what ended up happening, as is common in those cases, was I had my whole idea of ''roots'' and ''heritage'' and ''blood wisdom'' and whatnot smacked out of me in a useful way and exposed for mostly self-serving sentimentality. ''Jesus, Johnny, you're more Irish than I am,'' said Liam, the little red-cheeked, red-haired chef for whom I chopped vegetables in a railroad kitchen in Cork, after I unspooled for him once more the glory of my Celtic lineage: Sullivan, Mahoney, O'Brien, Cavanaugh, Considine, my Fenian grandfather, my . . . then he began to berate me for having screwed up the tartar-sauce mixture again, for drinking seven ''minerals'' on the job one hungover day, for having brazenly lied about knowing even the most basic, life-sustaining things about food preparation when he hired me.
Nobody cared about ''Irish American''; nobody wanted to hear about it. Were you born here? Then you're not Irish. I remember in the first real Irish bar I ever entered, an old man gave me grief about it. I had landed in Shannon, on the other side of the country, with my friend Ben. We had big purple backpacks and started hiking out of the airport parking lot. Ben's backpack had a small orange foldable shovel hanging out if it, of uncertain purpose. Our plan was to camp in farmers' fields; we read that you could do this, and probably he meant to dig trenches and latrines with it. Unfortunately it looked sort of murderous -- he described it as a ''cacking tool'' -- and this made us appear, I think, rather unappealing to passing drivers, who might have picked us up. Finally a young hippie couple did. I don't call them hippies derisively; they were real old-school flower children; the woman had beautiful gold-brown hair that should have had twigs in it. They told us that recently there had been a terrible murder in the area -- a man had killed a priest, and a child? I don't remember the details -- nobody wanted to mess with hitchhikers, much less with some who had poorly concealed little shovels.
Apart from those helpful hippies, hardly anyone stopped for us. We walked ourselves into cramps, but through magnificent, shining valleys, vistas of greens upon greens. Our money, which came from selling my car, ran out so quickly that it was like someone had put a spell on it, maybe the old Kerry woman at the airport in New York, an impishly tiny person, who told us how she won a great deal of money off some airline after she fell asleep in her seat on a flight and leaned out into the aisle and a beverage cart smashed straight into her face. We kept doing the math on where the money had gone and finally just stopped talking about it.
But we did go into this pub, near Killarney. Classic place, dusty, great wan light. A likely old fellow sat there, with a cane beside his stool. I was ready to get drunk with him and embrace him as my kinsman. At one point, while the man was pouring our pints, I put my hands together behind my back and wiggled around a little, stretching. I was all messed up from walking and sleeping in hard places.
''Oh, foine,'' he spat, holding his whiskey before him. ''Do your exercoises.''
We told him our names. We were Irish, too.
''Sullivan's an English name,'' he said. ''O'Sullivan -- that's an Irish name.''
I was stunned. I told him (as was true) that my great-grandfather, Patrick, was a stonemason in Bantry, County Cork, like his father and grandfather before him -- I'd seen their illiterate Xs on parish birth certificates -- and their names were Sullivan, not O'Sullivan, and if they weren't Irish, I don't know who --
''I don't know about any of that,'' he said. ''But Sullivan is an English name.''
We shouldered our giant purple packs and kept on toward Cork.
This time, when I landed, the first thing I did was rent a car, a tiny violet-colored vehicle called a Micra. It was the smallest car I had ever been inside. I admired her austerity-measures economy and the fact that when I got lost, as frequently happened, I could turn her 180 degrees in about a four-foot radius, like turning yourself on a spinny ride at the fair. As I drove, I kept noticing recent-looking houses and subdivisions, many of which had empty parking lots. Completely empty -- the places were uninhabited. This was the outer fringes of the notorious ''ghost estates,'' tens of thousands of structures, half-built and abandoned, or finished but never occupied and swiftly falling apart, which colonized the island in beige clusters during the Irish housing madness.
They actually impinge on the appearance of the countryside, there are so many. You'll find them especially near the entrances into cities, where they would (I suppose the thinking went) be most status-confirming, or else out along the edges of smaller roads, where their developers had idly hoped to plant new townlets (a few estates were born with their own ghost pub and ghost post office). In the op-ed pages, citizens offered modest proposals for what to do with these structures. Give them free to returning immigrants and bring the exiles home. Give them to the poor. Or else -- and probably most practicable -- bulldoze them back into green grass, remove them as eyesores and safety hazards.
I pulled off the road at various times and walked around in a few of the ghost estates. They are melancholy and menacing-feeling places -- the weeds have started advancing, cracks and holes are opening in the pavement. There's often mold. Boarded-up windows. In places the authorities have had a hard time keeping people from stealing building materials from the sites, and in a way, who can blame them. Stealing from whom, after all? Half the developers responsible for these aborted projects left the country after the crash. You would hear stories (the Irish can sometimes relish as topics the hubris and comeuppance of their own) about onetime wheeling-dealing rural builders, having lived high on tax games and borrowed wealth, ''and now they say he's living in New Zealand, swinging a hammer like he did before they gave him all that cash!'' It had been a dream, like something in a Celtic Revival play: faeries built thousands and thousands of houses in the night. In the morning everybody was poor again.
It was hard to see why the government would allow the ruination of so much open land, which is one of Ireland's principal commodities, namely the ''unspoiled'' landscape. People go to Ireland for all sorts of reasons, but they mainly go there because it's pretty, because it's ''not all built up.''
From the point of view of the rural Irish themselves, however, this may look very different. The greenness of Ireland is a false greenness, after all. Not that it isn't green -- the place can still make you have to pull off and swallow one of your heart pills. It's that the greenness doesn't mean what it seems. It doesn't encode a pastoral past, much less a timeless vale where wee folk trip the demesne. The countryside is not supposed to look like that, to be that empty. Ireland was at one time one of the most densely populated places in Europe. In the 1830s, there were more people living there than today. What you see in the open spaces the island is famous for are hundreds and hundreds of years of Irish dying and fleeing in large numbers. Famines, wars, epidemics and a wretched postcolonial poverty drove them through the ports by the millions. It's perhaps not so strange that such a people, experiencing their first flush of disposable income, would undergo a mania of home building and land development. Perhaps in a way, the houses were meant for returning immigrants even before they became ghost estates. They were built for the diaspora.
In the Aran Islands, in different places including on some of the farms overlooking the ocean, there are curious stone huts, invariably described in guidebooks as ''beehive-shaped.'' They are made out of flat rocks, piled atop one another and expertly joined (''corbelled,'' is the term). Anthropologists aren't in complete agreement about what they are -- and neither have been the generations of pub-stool antiquarians who'll lay a theory on you free -- but many think that early Christian monks built them. What the monks were doing on three barren slabs of limestone in the freezing sea, why they couldn't pray somewhere near Galway, is unclear. The islands seem to have been an ancient pilgrimage site. Perhaps the huts were shelters for pilgrims. Or maybe people just used them for smoking fish. Or are they tombs? They are as mysterious as they are humble.
John Millington Synge writes of walking to see these beehive huts (clochans in Gaelic) in ''The Aran Islands,'' his classic account of living here for several months in the 1890s, when he gathered the material for his greatest plays. No other writer is more closely associated with this place and its people than Synge, although in many ways he makes an unlikely representative. He was Anglo-Irish, Protestant in his upbringing, fairly well to do, scientifically minded -- there could have been, at the time, few Irish people possessing less in common with the peasantry he wound up making his subject and taking for his inspiration. Even in his famed descriptions, you can sense a remoteness. It was the artist in him, the very thing that made him a great writer. He never loved his own people too much to be able to see what was grotesque and silly and consequently most human in them. On his walk to the beehive huts, he's following an old blind man named Mourteen, a local storyteller who gave him all sorts of material. The man knows the islands so well that Synge cuts his feet trying to keep up, despite the fact that his guide can't see -- ''so blind that I can gaze at him without discourtesy,'' is Synge's phrase. The old man at one point indulges ''a freak of earthly humour'' and starts talking sex, saying what he would do if he could bring a girl into the hut with him. They pass a house where a schoolteacher lives alone. ''Ah, master,'' the old man says, ''wouldn't it be fine to be in there and to be kissing her?'' It's just the kind of scene that Synge's detractors hated him for. The heroism of his characters comes purely from their helpless urge to be themselves, against all better judgment.
Poor Synge. He spent half his adult life thinking he had tuberculosis, then found out he had Hodgkin's disease. He died when he was not even 38. And didn't write his first play until he was 32. Before that he wrote mediocre poems and reviews. It was Yeats who told him to go to the Aran Islands, which gave him his voice. All of those masterpieces -- ''Riders to the Sea,'' ''The Playboy of the Western World,'' ''The Well of the Saints,'' ''The Aran Islands'' itself -- all written in the span of only seven or eight years. It must be reckoned one of the true outcroppings of genius in the literature of the 20th century.
This hike should have been an easy one, but I managed to have with me only an almost-new pair of dress-walking shoes, bought at the airport; also, I radically underestimated the distance to the farm where the clochans are (it was miles). After an excessive-seeming time spent walking without finding the heritage-board sign that I was told to watch for, I figured I must have done something wrong, and stopped at a house overlooking the ocean. A man and his son were at work repairing a stone wall. The boy was about 18. They dropped their tools and walked over and looked at my map with me. ''Well, you're a strange sort of tourist,'' the man said, when I laid out my agenda. I wasn't sure what he meant -- that not many people wanted to see the beehive huts anymore, or that not many people would be stupid enough to try it on foot in black shoes -- but he assured me I hadn't gone too far and that, in reality, I hadn't gone nearly far enough. I thanked them and set off again.
Back on the road I passed a water well, doubtless one of the ''sacred wells'' that Synge mentions in his account. It was a little pool that lay under the shadow of a limestone outcropping. Brilliant white heads of Queen Anne's Lace swayed breezily in the sunshine that struck the water, and blue-gray butterflies flitted around. I didn't see the butterflies anywhere else on the island, only at this well.
You were walking along the coast, with the ocean on your right and the central ridge of the island running along high on your left. There were thatched-roof houses and long stone walls, joined tightly enough to last for hundred of years but not enough to prevent sunlight from seeping through the gaps and chinks. It gave them a filigreed appearance, when you saw them against the sky like this.
Eventually I found the farm, and a teenage boy who worked there -- who was at that moment preparing to bring some cattle in, for the end of the day -- showed me which narrow little path to take. You walk down a long sloping plain toward the ocean. A stark place to live, even for early Christian Irish monks, who I think of as having been an intensely stark people, a people who saved civilization more or less by sitting there and being really stark, until people were ready to read their manuscripts again.
The clochans were where the kid said they would be. There wasn't much to think about them, except that they were still standing in the open like this after weathering countless brutal storms. I crawled inside for a second and squatted. Even the floor was bone-dry.
The city of Cork -- the urban center, where all the shops and bars and everything are -- is actually an island, a river island. The River Lee splits at a certain place, as it flows toward the sea, and ''Encloseth Corke with his deuided flood,'' as Spenser says in ''The Faerie Queene.'' You can't really sense it, while you're there -- you just keep feeling like you're running into the river too many times, must be confused, too many bridges, or maybe there are two rivers.
Ben and I worked pretty much every night -- it was the price we paid for being allowed to have jobs at all on the cheesy, nonenforceable visas we bought from a company in the States. We met up late and walked home, stopping at pubs along the way, putting a little punctuation mark on the night, before it was time to head into the hills. Cork city is surrounded by them. From up high you can see that it's nestled at the bottom of a green bowl. Our apartment was on one of the highest hills, a mile's walk up a steepening incline. The muscles in my legs were obscene by the time we moved. I looked like one of those guys in a documentary who climbs cliff faces to go after birds' eggs.
Our rooms were on the third floor. It was as high as you could get in Cork. There was a big picture window, from which you could watch the ships coming up the Lee. The window offered comically little resistance to the wind. When it turned cold, the place was miserable, like a place where Poe would have lived. In the middle of the night we would sit there in our sleeping bags, tending a coal fire that had almost zero perceptible influence on the temperature of the room. Our money kept running out -- after rent and food, we were at zero every month, and neither of us had family checks coming. When it was worst, I would stroll at an appointed hour down the alley beneath the window of the kitchen where Ben worked, so he could drop a baked potato down to me.
And yet those were without question six of the best and most important months of my life. I did the first disciplined writing I'd ever done in that apartment -- in a little sitting room with a picture of some long-dead pope on the wall, on a plastic typewriter that my father shipped over to me. Everything I wrote was a tremendously bad imitation of James Joyce, but what was different now was when I looked at it, I saw how bad it was and didn't despair but wondered how it might be less bad, and kept going.
My father visited in the fall. It was the first time he'd ever been, and the last time he and I ever went on a trip together or anything like that. His body was already failing, I realize now. The few little hikes we attempted, he had to keep stopping over and over. But sit in a pub and drink and smoke and talk about books? That was a miniature heaven, and we spent most of our time there. We drove down to Bantry -- he proudly demonstrating amazing lefty gear-shifting skills -- and found some old family graves. At one point, when we introduced ourselves to a man in a shop -- the sign said Michael Sullivan, my father's name -- my father remarked to the man that we were ''looking for our ancestors.'' The man thrust out his hand and said, ''I'm your ancestors!''
This time, on my second day back in the city, I walked down to the neighborhood around University College Cork. In a coffee shop on the campus there, I had a long conversation with three young men who were just finishing their studies. Brian Burke was thin, with a trim red beard and fiercely skeptical eyes. He had just finished a dissertation on ''Mechanisms for fixing pay and conditions in Ireland.'' There were also three dark-headed guys: Colm Bergin, Peter Horgan and Cathal McSweeney. All had known one another, with different degrees of closeness, during their university schooling. Colm was a big, tall man with a shaved head and glasses. He wanted to do something with an international aid agency, an N.G.O. Peter was a journalist, doing a kind of temporary gig -- something between an internship and a job -- at a paper in Waterford. And Cathal hoped to go into business. He had already made plans to leave for London. ''But his parents don't know yet,'' Peter said. The implication was that his parents wouldn't be happy about it. The other three were thinking about emigrating, too. Not necessarily in the sense of thinking about doing it, but just thinking about it. For an Irish person, it's always there, the way it is for, say, a Cuban. To be Irish is to make up your mind about whether or not to leave Ireland.
In some ways, it was like sitting anywhere in the world with young people who are just out of college. Their brains are oiled, they know what's wrong with the world and how to fix it. But in this particular case, their talk had a drama to it, because they were part of a generation that had been bred for a new kind of success. A unique generation in Irish history. They grew up hearing, ''It'll be different for you.'' And now they were leaving school, and it wasn't different. It was like before. Among their group of friends -- equally well educated -- it was considered lucky to have jobs at the local customer-service call center. (Ireland is famously good at doing these centers, like India, something I hadn't known -- and the lads had received some training there in how to deal with people's anger and outrage, when you told them their phone was being cut off or whatever.)
They asked me if I had heard of the Elysian tower, the ''ghost tower.'' I had seen it there in town, without knowing its story or its name. It was built since I lived there. It was now the tallest building in Cork -- indeed the only tall building in Cork. Luxury apartments. The rumor in town (details of which turned out to be exaggerated) was that only the penthouse was occupied. And it cost the management company so much to maintain services to the woman who lived there, they moved her out, bought her a house. But for a while she stayed up there, they said, looking out over the city.
A friend's father was sick while I was in Ireland. The idea came of inscribing to him the copy of Synge's works I brought with me on this trip and leaving it in the little library on Aran. The librarian wasn't there -- she only works certain days of the week -- but a very pleasant lady, when I told her what I wanted to do, opened the door for me and loaned me a pen and let me sit there in a sunny corner.
I can't say that I enjoyed parting with this book, which was partly why it felt right to leave it. ''The Complete Works of John M. Synge,'' 1935 Random House edition, the only one-volume edition I've seen that has all of his stuff -- it's worth finding, not just for the sake of having all the plays in one place, but because it reveals a lesser-known Synge -- Synge the writer of powerful nonfiction pieces, ''The Vagrants of Wicklow'' and ''In the Congested Districts.'' He wrote some of the best Irish walking journals ever, and that's not a narrow genre; perhaps only Heinrich Boll's are as good. Before handing over the book, I re-read a favorite paragraph from ''The Aran Islands,'' where Synge describes men bringing horses ashore in their small sailing craft: ''The storm of Gaelic that rises the moment a horse is shoved from the pier, till it is safely in its place, is indescribable.''
The other nice thing about a collected Synge is that you can read the rest of his plays, the ones that didn't become as famous, but all of which have moments that are on a level with his best writing. The night before, after Chris had excused himself to do some work -- it turned out he did have some duties, as night manager, it wasn't all sleeping and pint-pulling -- I walked down to the dock, which glowed eerily in the orange lights they keep on constantly there and read some of ''The Shadow of the Glen,'' the plot of which came from yet another tale Synge heard on the Aran Islands. A husband decides to fake his own death, in order to test the loyalty of his wife -- he'll spy on her from his slab, see how she behaves with the men who come to pay their respects. A tramp shows up by chance, and the woman takes a liking to him. During a brief, magical, cursed night, she sits talking to her new friend while the falsely dead husband lies there listening (multiple vectors of betrayal converging: take note, budding playwrights). The woman allows herself to dream about the life she'll have with the money her old man has left her in a sock -- not a grand life, but less boring and awful than the one she was living with him. When at last he sits up, revealing his ghastly trick, she's so horrified that she doesn't know what to do except prepare herself for death. But the tramp won't let her think that way. ''You'll not be getting your death with myself, lady of the house,'' he says, ''and I knowing all the ways a man can put food in his mouth. . . . We'll be going now, I'm telling you, and the time you'll be feeling the cold, and the frost, and the great rain, and the sun again, and the south wind blowing in the glens, you'll not be sitting up on a wet ditch, the way you're after sitting in the place, making yourself old with looking on each day, and it passing you by. You'll be saying one time, 'It's a grand evening, by the grace of God,' and another time, 'It's a wild night, God help us, but it'll pass surely.' ''
It was reminiscent of Christy's speech from the ending of ''Playboy,'' and of countless other passages in Synge. It's the great discovery he made in his study of the Irish character -- the idea of survival as an act of imagination. Against the unacceptability of the void, he pits the howl of irrational humor and the keen. He was too dignified to apologize much for his work to hostile critics, but he might have said, in response to the charge that he was aloof from the true rural Irish, that he shared their unforgotten paganism.
People said he made clowns of the peasants -- there are still writers who complain that his dialogue wasn't always true to real Irish folk speech, a criticism that manages to be correct while driving past his achievement, which was to go beneath them, into something even older and deeper, the Greeks. He possessed the mercenary instinct of the artist and sought not to capture the Irish language but to mine it for his English sentences. He had in him something of Gabriel, from ''The Dead,'' who when chastised for not wanting to visit the Aran Islands and learn his own native tongue, answers sourly, ''Irish is not my language.'' In his room here at the inn, they say, Synge lay on the floor with his ear to the boards, listening to the talk of the people below, making notes. Out of that stuff he made plays that caused riots in multiple countries.
Whatever comes next, after the crash, Ireland will make itself anew. If it's smart, that is -- if it doesn't insist, like us, on desperately trying to crawl back to the conditions that made the bubble. A century after Synge's last works were published, he may be the writer Ireland needs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DUN AONGHASA, A PREHISTORIC FORT ON THE ARAN ISLANDS IN GALWAY BAY. (MM26-MM27)
MAURA MULKERN OF INIS MEAIN, ONE OF THE ARAN ISLANDS. (MM28)
CHRIS GWIAZDA, ORIGINALLY FROM UKRAINE, HAS LIVED ON INIS MOR FOR FIVE YEARS. (MM29)
 THE REAL ESTATE CRASH LEFT MANY PROJECTS UNFINISHED, LIKE THESE HOMES OUTSIDE LONGFORD. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KENNETH O HALLORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM30) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (91%) IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



463 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2165 words

HEADLINE: Whatever Happened To First Class?

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Kenan D. Christiansen and Rachel Lee Harris contributed reporting.

 BODY:
AS a longtime veteran of the coach cabin and all the horrors therein -- the battles for overhead space, the wheelie-bag traffic jams, the knee-numbing legroom -- one can only imagine my thrill when I boarded a recent American Airlines flight from San Jose, Calif., to Dallas. There I was, after all, in the first row. My seat was wide, the armrest was enormous, and the guys behind me were talking, businessman-style, about real estate and golf, bankruptcies and bogies. This was the high life, I figured, a conviction that only intensified when the flight attendant approached with a silver tray and addressed me -- unprompted -- as ''Mr. McKinley.'' Then he handed me, well, a towel.
Or sort of. Maybe it was more of a wipe? It was basically the size of a cocktail napkin. Or perhaps it was a piece of the pilot's long-lost security blanket. Whatever it was, it was marginally warm, borderline damp, and had the unmistakable, oft-used texture of a bargain washcloth.
Ah, first class. 
Once an enclave of elegance, fabulous fliers and V.I.P.'s with sights to see and places to be, these days, judging from a recent informal survey I undertook of several of the nation's bigger domestic carriers, the experience is often reminiscent of what one used to find in coach. Same kind of pillows. Same kind of blankets. Same kind of guy in sweats, a fleece and a ball-cap letting his knees expand to the widest possible angle while downing a free drink.
Indeed, what I noticed over the course of several short jaunts, hub-to-hub hauls and cross-country treks was that the airlines' gutting of almost all niceties from economy class seems to have had a perverse effect on first. Rather than be defined by the benefits it bestows, it is now defined by the deprivations it doesn't. ''You go into first class,'' said Joe Brancatelli, the editor of JoeSentMe.com, a Web site for business travelers, ''because it's less horrible than coach.''
Not that there's always that much difference, mind you. Consider a recent US Airways flight I took from Charlotte, N.C., to Newark -- I bought a $75 upgrade -- whose amenities were a bigger seat, a tiny pillow, a big bottle of water and a choice of nuts or cheese snacks, delivered in what an airline spokesman later called a ''relatively heavy snack basket.'' On my American flight from San Jose, there wasn't even a pillow, though the flight attendant noted I could rest my head against the adjustable (and that's a generous term) flap in the headrest.
And while there's ample debate as to when the Golden Age of First Class was -- the Stratocruiser '50s? The Pan Am '60s? The steak-and-silverware '70s? -- the growing consensus among airline observers is that decades of deregulation, harsh economic swings, increased competition and consolidation, and, most recently, upgrade-hungry frequent fliers, have left the domestic first-class compartment more of a letdown than a luxury.
''The style is gone, the attention to detail is gone, the amenities are gone,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a founder of the Atmosphere Research Group, a travel industry analysis firm. ''The fact is that domestic first class today simply means little more than a wider seat and a better chance of getting your bag in the overhead bin.''
It wasn't always thus. In the glory days of first-class travel, according to Roland H. Moore, president of the Eastern Airlines Historical Foundation, luxury was the sell. Attendants wore hats, stockings, white gloves and tailor-made suits. Passengers dressed up. Meals were an event, with high-end chefs from restaurants like the ''21'' Club in New York catering meals that would be served on Rosenthal china with stainless steel silverware, starched white napkins and tablecloths. The pillows were large, the cases starched white, and the candies were hard (to comfort the ears on takeoff, of course).
''Furs would be folded with the lining outside,'' said Frank Victor, a board member with the National Airline History Museum, who fondly recalled days of lobster thermidor and chateaubriand carved at your seat. And, he added, ''The curtains were closed between first and coach.'' (And not those decorative hospital-style curtains you see nowadays.) Most agree that deregulation in the late '70s was the beginning of major changes for first class -- and first-class passengers -- as government-decreed fares gave way to competitive pricing. Pre-regulation fixed fares, you see, meant airlines had to compete in other ways for customers, namely through better service, not better prices.
So while deregulation has ''hugely democratized'' the skies, said Gary Leff, a founder of milepoint.com, a frequent flier community, it has also meant ''that without high fares, the airlines don't spend on amenities the way that they used to.''
There were also low-cost carriers like Southwest and People Express that didn't mess with first class at all. Later, 9/11, rising fuel costs and the recession all continued to pummel the airlines, forcing a protracted era of cost-cutting.
Airlines had also developed loyalty programs, allowing frequent fliers to pay for upgrades with miles, and letting regular Joes percolate up into first class. What really opened the flood gates, though -- and that first-class curtain -- was a more recent decision by some carriers to offer upgrades to their most frequent fliers, gratis, rather than let those seats go empty.
And that, say some, has justified the airlines' rationale in making the first-class experience less than premium. ''Once they are giving it away as a perk,'' Mr. Brancatelli said, ''why would you go out of your way to make it glamorous?''
And while Mr. Harteveldt -- like everyone else -- loves his free upgrades, he said that the practice galls him from a business standpoint. ''Let's say you go to Macy's and buy a generic $49 shirt,'' he said. ''The clerk doesn't then take that back and hand you a shirt by a name-brand designer.''
But, to be frank, at these prices, who can afford to pay retail? A recent search of first-class fares on Orbitz.com, from Kennedy Airport to Los Angeles, found nonstop fares as high as $3,116 on United, $3,113 on American. And that was one way. (By comparison, both coach tickets were $149.)
Airlines won't say how many people are paying the full first-class fare -- Mr. Brancatelli estimates it to be 2 percent, while others estimate up to 10. Some first-class cabins, according to the airlines, are more stocked with customers paying full fare than others, but as a passenger it can seem that the front of the plane on many domestic flights is packed with upgraded travelers. On a recent transcontinental flight out of Philadelphia on Delta, for example, exactly 2 of 16 first-class passengers had paid full fare, according to a gate agent there. And one of those big spenders was me.
With tens of millions of upgradable frequent fliers, airlines have taken to adding seats with slightly more legroom and other perks in coach -- call it Coach Plus -- to accommodate loyal customers shut out of the front of the plane.
American, for one, is making an effort to up their number of ''economy class premium,'' with more of such seats on its new Boeing 777-300ERs due this year. American has also kept three separate cabins -- coach, business and first -- while others have gone strictly bicameral (coach and first), and says it's intensifying its efforts to get Wi-Fi on more planes, said Alice Liu, managing director of onboard products. It is, she said, part of making first class ''a seamless transition from everyday life to the airline.''
''It shouldn't be an interruption,'' she said.
Other airlines also strongly contest the assertion that first class isn't what it used to be, saying that they've poured ample resources into maintaining and improving service with everything from new seats -- from cloth to leather, for example, on United -- to better menus and wines. There are also flashier entertainment devices, power outlets, new online services and, of course, the ever-important issues of more legroom and larger seats.
Airline officials acknowledge that some changes in the front of the plane have occurred over the years, but largely because of the changing expectations and demands of their customers. ''I think it used to be that the flight was as much a part of the vacation as the beach in Hawaii or touring the Eiffel Tower,'' said Rahsaan Johnson, a spokesman for United. ''Now people just want to get on and do what they want to do. And they are far more likely to say, I wish I had a place to plug in my laptop than I wish we had flowers in the lav.''
To be sure, not all first-class experiences are created equal. On some flights, first class doesn't even mean a meal. US Airways, for example, doesn't serve prepared food in first class for any flight less than three and a half hours long. When the food comes, it does not always inspire, like an omelet-and-home-fries breakfast I had on American -- part of a $986 full-fare one-connection, one-way flight from West Coast to East -- where omelet and home fries had appeared to merge like something out of ''The Fly.'' But the airline did better on a Dallas to Philadelphia afternoon flight: I was given a nice cold salmon salad, a bowl of warm nuts and yes, a hot towel. (By this point in my research, I was politely saying no.)
Airlines tend to load the extras onto their longer, transcontinental flights, which can feature meals designed by celebrity chefs, seats that extend to lie flat and computer tablets loaded with movies and video games. (Details on extras are in the accompanying article.)
First class also has staffing on its side -- often two flight attendants for a dozen or so people -- and its own commode, of course.
And those are just the perks on the plane. According to Fern Fernandez, managing director for marketing and customer loyalty of US Airways, for some customers they pale in comparison with the biggest prize of all: less time waiting to get on.
''Domestically, it's that ability to have an expedited experience in the boarding process,'' he said. ''And having a little extra space.''
But while avoiding the epic security lines -- reserved for those suspicious economy-class types -- is certainly a perk, the first-class treatment apparently doesn't always get you past the velvet rope. Holding a first-class ticket does not guarantee access to terminal clubs, something I discovered at Newark Liberty International Airport, where my $759.70 ticket -- one way -- wasn't enough to get me into the United lounge, despite the fact that I was wearing my best (and only) suit.
AIRLINES insist that first-class customers have always been -- and always will be -- special. ''First class remained a priority,'' said Chris Kelly Singley, a spokeswoman for Delta. ''Because the folks who are sitting in those seats are typically paying higher fares.''(If, of course, they are paying.)
Sure enough, on a Delta flight from Philadelphia to Los Angeles in mid-January, the airline did well. The plane, a Boeing 737-800, came with seatback entertainment systems with free movies and television shows. The meal -- grilled chicken, fresh salad, chocolate cake -- was yummy, and the drinks were, well, ample. My aisle-mate, separated from me by a wide armrest, drank several glasses of red wine, and only spilled part of the last one on my leg. The Delta flight attendant, like every first-class flight attendant I encountered, handled it with aplomb -- and a real cloth napkin.
United Continental also did well on a San Francisco-bound jag, with a menu complete with freshly baked garlic bread, mezzaluna pasta and vanilla ice cream with hot fudge. (You could gain a lot of weight in first class, which might explain the bigger seats.)
Much depends on the type of plane you're on, with some models allowing for the ultimate in first-class elitism: the ability to turn left when you board the plane. Older planes, however, can struggle to keep up with the times. Consider an American Airlines MD-80 I recently boarded only to discover that the jack below my first-class seat was a round DC outlet like one you might find in your car's cigarette lighter. Which would have been great had I been driving, but left my PC bereft at 35,000 feet. (The airline promises that it is converting the outlets.)
Still, the view from 35,000 feet is the same no matter where you're sitting, something I was reminded of on a US Airways flight to Newark: a sunrise over the Atlantic, an eyeliner-thin trace of pink over an unmade bed of clouds. Looking out, I felt that often-forgotten sensation of wonder, of flight, and the excitement of travel to a different place. (Even if that place was in New Jersey.) My first-class amenities weren't much: a bag of cranberry nut mix and some organic Cheddar cheese snacks. But the takeoff was flawless and the scenery divine. Settling back into my wide seat, I had a deep thought: I had become spoiled. For even if first class wasn't as fine as I'd hoped, it still wasn't coach.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ROWAN BARNES-MURPHY) (TR1
 TR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); SNACK FOODS (63%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



464 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Can the Working Class Be Saved?

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
CHARLES MURRAY'S ''Coming Apart,'' the book that's launched a thousand arguments this winter, is a brilliant work with an exasperating conclusion. What's brilliant is Murray's portrait, rich in data and anecdote, of the steady breakdown of what he calls America's ''founding virtues'' -- thrift and industriousness, fidelity and parental responsibility, piety and civic engagement -- within America's working class, and the personal and communal wreckage that's ensued.
What's exasperating is what the author suggests policy makers can do about the social crisis: in essence, nothing. 
Or at least nothing realistic. Instead, Murray argues that our leaders should embrace his own libertarian convictions, scrap all existing government programs (and the dependency and perverse incentives they create) and replace them with a universal guaranteed income. This is a fascinating idea; it's also fantastically impractical, and entirely divorced from American political realities. Which means that it's divorced from any possibility of actually addressing the crisis that Murray so vividly describes.
That said, much of the criticism that ''Coming Apart'' has received from liberals is exasperating as well. Murray's critics accuse him of essentially blaming the victim: the social breakdown he described may be real enough, they allow, but it's an inevitable consequence of an economic system that Republicans have rigged to benefit the rich. In the liberal view, there's nothing wrong with America's working class that can't be solved by taxing the wealthy and using the revenue to weave a stronger safety net.
If Murray's prescription for the social crisis is an exercise in libertarian wishful thinking, this liberal alternative is a mix of partisan demonization and budgetary fantasy. It was globalization, not Republicans, that killed the private-sector union and reduced the returns to blue-collar work. It's arithmetic, not plutocracy, that's standing between the left and its dream of a much more activist government. Even if liberals get the higher tax rates on the rich they so ardently desire, the money won't be adequate to finance our existing entitlements, let alone a New Deal 2.0.
So let's step back. The crisis in working-class life Murray describes is arguably our most pressing domestic problem. But we are not going to address it by gut-renovating our welfare state to fit a libertarian ideal, or by dramatically expanding the same state in pursuit of an unattainable social democratic dream.
What we can do instead is take modest steps, in areas where culture and economics intersect, to make it easier for working-class Americans to cultivate the virtues that foster resilience and self-sufficiency. Here are four such steps:
First, if we want the poor to be industrious, we should do everything possible to make their industry pay off. The current tax-and-transfer system imposes a tax on work -- the payroll tax -- that falls heavily on low-wage labor, and poor Americans face steep marginal tax rates because of how their benefits phase out as their wages increase. Both burdens can and should be lightened. There are ways to finance Social Security besides a regressive tax on work, and ways to structure benefits and tax credits that don't reduce the incentives to take a better-paying job.
Second, if we want lower-income Americans to have stable family lives, our political system should take family policy seriously, and look for ways to make it easier for parents to manage work-life balance when their kids are young. There are left-wing approaches to this issue (European-style family-leave requirements) and right-wing approaches (a larger child tax credit). Neither is currently on the national agenda; both should be.
Third, if we expect less-educated Americans to compete with low-wage workers in Asia and Latin America, we shouldn't be welcoming millions of immigrants who compete with them domestically as well. Immigration benefits the economy over all, but it can lower wages and disrupt communities, and there's no reason to ask an already-burdened working class to bear these costs alone. Here the leading Republican candidates have the right idea: We should welcome more high-skilled immigrants, while making it as hard as possible for employers to hire low-skilled workers off the books.
Finally, if we want low-income men to be marriageable, employable and law-abiding, we should work to reduce incarceration rates. Prison is a school for crime and an anchor on advancement, and there's a large body of research -- from scholars like U.C.L.A.'s Mark Kleiman and Berkeley's Franklin E. Zimring -- suggesting that swift, certain punishment and larger police forces can do as much to keep crime low as the more draconian approach to sentencing that our justice system often takes.
This agenda would not require the kind of radical (and implausible) transformations of government that both libertarians and liberals often pine for. Neither, admittedly, would it radically transform the lives of the people it aims to help. But it would do good at the margins of a large and growing problem, and that is no small thing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A food pantry in Reading, Pa., one sign of the breakdown in American life. Despite the partisan divide, there are some practical solutions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (89%); POLITICS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WRITERS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: READING, PA, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: Coming Apart (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



465 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Topic of Miller

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re Jeanette Winterson's review of ''Renegade: Henry Miller and the Making of 'Tropic of Cancer,' '' by Frederick Turner (Jan. 29):
As ''Tropic of Cancer'' begins, Miller says he is an artist and then dances about on the pages in the most manic and delightful way. Writer, dancer, singer. ''I am going to sing for you, a little off key perhaps, but I will sing. I will sing while you croak, I will dance over your dirty corpse. . . . This then is a song. I am singing.''
I like Miller because of that all-singing-and-dancing act. It makes me laugh. As it happens I do not recall a single sexual episode in the book, but if he had a dozen women upside down or in the gutter or on slabs, good for him, as long as he was singing. I buy the artist as free-to-do-what-he-likes not as a principle but when he proves himself a better singer and dancer than a social worker. 
Miller, the late-arriving American in Paris, could have written a book of utter despair and degradation in keeping with the times, but instead he sings. It is quite beautiful: the world is hideous, menacing and going down the drain, and Miller sings. The all-American Miller did not choose death; he wrote an outrageous American novel full of energy, optimism and laughs. That is what is so good about Henry Miller. That is why ''Tropic of Cancer'' is morally and historically an important book.
MICHAEL HAAG London The writer is at work on a biography of Lawrence Durrell.
To the Editor:
Jeanette Winterson concludes her review of ''Renegade'' by asking, ''Why do men revel in the degradation of women?''
The answer to Winterson's sweeping, sexist generalization is that not all of us do.
Just imagine the (justified) outcry if such an appalling, stereotypical indictment of an entire group had been raised in a racial or ethnic context. It's time Winterson took the chip off her shoulder.
JOHN S. KOPPEL Bethesda, Md.
To the Editor:
Winterson concludes her review with a powerful question: ''Why do men revel in the degradation of women?'' This follows an essay in which she demonstrates the character-disordered nature of Miller's personality, his willingness to exploit the women in his life both economically and sexually with no apparent evidence of guilt or regret.
She further describes what she sees as Frederick Turner's acceptance of Miller's hatred of American culture and economic realities, demonstrating the author's apparent blind spot or denial of Miller's unrelenting paranoia about the United States and sadism toward women. Miller appears to have had a desire or need to degrade women as a part of everyday sexuality. But this is hardly sufficient to warrant an extension to men in general.
Surely it is time to recognize that the literary production of one individual may well reflect his personality disorder without assuming that his sadistic thinking about women characterizes how all or even a small majority of men think or feel.
HENRY J. FRIEDMAN Cambridge, Mass. The writer is an associate clinical professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School.
To the Editor:
OMG, an actually less-than-worshipful overview of Henry Miller by Jeanette Winterson and a fittingly praiseful retrospective on Madeleine L'Engle (''I Was a Sci-Fi Heroine,'' by Pamela Paul, Jan. 29) -- both pieces feminist, literary, fair -- in the same issue! The Book Review may be flooded with sexist Millerian protests, but this is to say thanks for making the other half of humanity visible for once. More, please! And perhaps a warning next time so your female readers don't expire from shock.
ROBIN MORGAN New York
To the Editor:
I enjoyed Winterson's thoughtful reappraisal of ''Tropic of Cancer'' but wanted to respond to her offhand reference to Henry Miller's first publisher as a ''soft-porn imprint.'' Jack Kahane, the English founder of Obelisk Press in Paris, was a bold and discerning reader (and the subject of a fascinating study by Neil Pearson). Besides ''Tropic of Cancer,'' Obelisk's publications included works by James Joyce, D. H. Lawrence, Lawrence Durrell, and one of the early lesbian novels in English -- written, as it happens, by my grandfather, Gawen Brownrigg. Though the subject matter was controversial, ''Star Against Star'' (published in 1935) is sympathetic and not pornographic in the least. I have always appreciated Obelisk for publishing it.
SYLVIA BROWNRIGG Berkeley, Calif.
To the Editor:
What a joy it was to find one of Joe Ciardiello's immediately recognizable illustrations once again on the Book Review cover on Jan. 29! I have missed them. He always manages not only to provide a good if quirky likeness but also to convey the character of the subject, in this case that of the some-like-him-some-don't Henry Miller. I hope you'll keep Joe's drawings coming.
BETSY SHAW WEINER Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DANCE (90%); WRITERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); INDICTMENTS (60%); EVIDENCE (50%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



466 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Loan Terms Made to Order

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
LOOKING for a mortgage that will retire when you do? Or maybe you want to time a refinancing so that the loan is paid up when the kids head off to college. There are a number of lenders that would be happy to oblige.
Customized mortgages aren't new. But industry experts say they are seeing more and more borrowers opt for fixed-rate loans with terms other than the standard 30 or 15 years, especially when it comes to refinancings. 
Last year, nearly 17 percent of all refinanced mortgages were with ''other length'' fixed-rate loans, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, which noted that in August, September and October, the share was 20 percent. Most of those ''other length'' loans were in 20-year mortgages, though loans are also available for 10, 25 and 40 years, and even for ''oddball'' terms like 23 or 12 years.
Michael Fratantoni, the association's vice president for research and education, called the 20-year mortgage ''a new phenomenon'' and said it had ''become the third-favorite product.''
Despite this increased popularity, some borrowers aren't aware that they could take out a 20-year mortgage, said Jason Auerbach, a divisional manager of First Choice Loan Services in Manhattan. Lenders usually offer home loans in five-year increments, he said. JPMorgan Chase, for example, lists on its Web site fixed-rate mortgages in 10-, 15-, 20-, 25-, 30 and 40-year terms.
The shorter terms are especially valuable to people refinancing after paying down their 30-year mortgage for five or seven years, Mr. Auerbach said. If they take a 20-year mortgage, they can reduce their interest rate -- and the term -- and possibly even get a monthly payment the same or slightly lower than before.
The 20-year mortgage is becoming so prevalent, Mr. Fratantoni said, that banks are starting to sell them off to investors or in the secondary mortgage market.
Meanwhile, if you want to match your loan term to a life event and it's an unusual number of years, like 17 or 23, expect to do some digging. Those loans have limited availability and their price -- the rate or fees -- could be higher, Mr. Fratantoni said.
''You can get some oddball amortization -- you just have to ask for it'' at a smaller bank, credit union or specialty lender, said David Boone, a first vice president for residential lending of Provident Bank in Jersey City. His mortgage team recently made a home loan with an eight-year amortization, which was aimed at a borrower close to retirement. Many customers seeking to refinance ask for odd loan terms to avoid increasing the length of their repayment schedule, he noted.
Of course, you could also create your own 23-year mortgage: for example, by obtaining a 25-year mortgage and then determining how much extra you need to pay each month if paying it off two years earlier. This approach could work with biweekly loan payments too; typically, these will reduce your payoff by five to seven years, Mr. Auerbach said.
Before you decide, get your mortgage professional to run different amortization tables so you can compare the payment and other details. Ask which terms come with reduced interest rates. These vary; some lenders step up the rate. For instance, someone getting a 12-year term will very likely receive the 15-year mortgage rate, Mr. Boone said.
Explore the loan options in the context of your other goals and timelines, said Debra L. Morrison, a financial planner with Trovena in Roseland, N.J. Ask yourself and your partner: When do I expect to retire? When could I become debt-free?
It's important that you continue to fund your retirement accounts, too, and not focus solely on a short-term mortgage. If you rustle up an extra $400 a month in income, split the extra payments between your mortgage and a 401(k) or other retirement account, she said.
''A free-and-clear home is a wonderful thing for a lot of people,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); PROVIDENT FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); PFS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW JERSEY, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



467 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: In Afghanistan, a Soviet Past Lies in Ruins

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; Sangar Rahimi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- As poignant in its imperial ambition as in its otherworldliness, the Soviet-era swimming pool atop Swimming Pool Hill here is as good a symbol as any of the doubtful legacy of empires.
Dug 30 years ago, it was barely ever used by Kabul's swimmers, as the hill became entangled in barbed wire, first a gun placement for the Soviets and then the Taliban, before the whole area was bombarded by Western firepower in the 2001 invasion.
Now restored, its five diving boards hang pointlessly above an empty pool and an indifferent city stretched out below that is consumed with yet another stage of Afghanistan's precarious history, the pending withdrawal of more recent foreign occupiers -- the United States and its allies.
Like the pool, Kabul holds many glimpses of its Soviet past hidden in plain sight around its jumbled hillsides: a polytechnic school built in the 1960s, when the Soviet Union and the United States jostled for cold war influence in Afghanistan by building big infrastructure projects; or a car factory expanded after 1979, when the Soviet Army marched in to wrench this nation more forcefully into the Kremlin's sphere of power and way of thinking. 
The Soviets retreated in 1989, leaving Afghanistan to a civil war that swept up the Soviet-constructed edifices in the conflagration. However improbably, a few of these are still inhabited, like an engineering school, the Auto Mechanic Institute, where a second-year student in a green T-shirt picked his way one recent afternoon from the ghostly wreckage of bombed-out classrooms.
Others are simply wrecks, prowled only by the homeless, drug addicts and dogs -- sobering artifacts that confront the United States and its allies as they begin pondering what their own legacy might be.
''The Soviets came in believing they could re-engineer other people's societies, releasing Afghans from their medieval backwardness,'' said Sir Rodric Braithwaite, a former British ambassador to Moscow whose book ''Afgantsy'' is about the Soviet occupation. ''They didn't transform Afghan society any more than we are going to.''
In 1980s Kabul, the Soviet Embassy on Darulaman Road, bustling with technicians and ideologues, was the locus of power, just as the American Embassy across town is today.
The current Russian ambassador, Andrey Avetisyan, 51, worked here as a young diplomat during the 1980s. He was here, too, when things became dicey in the early 1990s: he spent 16 days hiding in a bomb shelter as the mujahedeen divided up Kabul, and he was one of the last Russians to flee Afghanistan, in August 1992.
An urbane man in a smart dark suit, Mr. Avetisyan cuts something of an isolated figure in the echoing halls of the reconstructed Russian Embassy, a third of its former size. The grounds were home to donkeys and nomads during the Taliban years, but they are now hidden from the highway behind a curtain of metal blast walls.
He has a plan to restore 150 of the Soviet-era infrastructure projects, starting with a housing construction factory on the outskirts of Kabul near the airport.
''These were projects that were kind of the basis of the Afghan economy,'' Mr. Avetisyan said. ''Now it is difficult for me to see the state they are in.''
The starkest illustration of thwarted imperial ambition is the Soviet House of Science and Culture, near the Russian Embassy and the Kabul zoo. It is a modern, angular, concrete hulk where Soviets and Afghans gathered for lectures, films and the propagation of modernizing ideas that for a while refashioned Kabul, including a time when women could work outside the home in Western clothing.
But during the civil war of 1992-96, the House of Science and Culture was occupied by one faction and wrecked as another lobbed shells down from a nearby hill. Today, the auditoriums are littered with rubble; cold air comes in through rocket holes; and once-bold Soviet murals of men and women, Afghans and Russians, are hidden in the squalid darkness near cartoon images depicting a Taliban fighter instructing children to become suicide bombers.
''This used to be very luxurious,'' said Mohammad Elyas, a heavy man with a big smile who was more intent on parking cars on the waste ground outside for 20 Afghanis each (about 40 cents) than contemplating the cultural center. ''It is nothing now.''
Not every legacy bequeathed by the Soviets is lost. The Silo, an industrial bakery, fed the national Afghan Army and police. During the civil war, fighters threw their enemies from its rooftops. But its grimy yellow towers are once again turning out so-called silo bread for hospitals and schools.
The most enduring physical presence might be the Mikrorayon, gray apartment blocks originally built for Soviet administrators and the Afghan elite that stand amid the central suburbs of Kabul.
Also bearing the bullet and shell marks of the battles of the 1990s, they are cramped, run-down and patched, with clothing lines stretching haphazardly from windows to nearby trees. But the Mikrorayon are still some of the most prized homes for Kabul's educated and wealthier middle class -- a fact reflected in the loud street billboards for cellphones and private schools, and in the presence of young women walking the sidewalks in leg-hugging jeans unencumbered by the traditional dress.
''It is a safe place,'' said Shir Mohammad Basheer, 50, a school principal who was fixing his car outside the four-room apartment that he shares with his wife and six children. ''We have running water. We have electricity. We have central heating.''
''To be honest, Russia did this great work for Afghanistan,'' he said. ''We have not seen anything big built by the international coalition.''
Many Afghans' remembrance of the Soviet years is colored by this rosy nostalgia. But the grounds of a museum near the main stadium hold reminders of a bloodier legacy: mines, shells, rockets, helicopters and other tools the Soviets employed to suppress their own insurgency, leaving hundreds of thousands dead, a ghastlier toll than the coalition's, if these things can be compared.
Still, Abdul Wahid Taqat, a K.G.B.-trained intelligence officer during the Soviet years and now a military analyst who lives in an apartment near the Mikrorayon, said that he believed a powerful army and a muscular government were a valuable legacy. They allowed President Muhammad Najibullah, the last Soviet-backed leader, to withstand the mujahedeen alone for three years after 1989 before Moscow finally cut off oil and other supplies.
Then, of course, Mr. Najibullah was beaten, shot and hanged from a traffic light by the Taliban in Kabul in 1996.
''They left a strong Afghanistan behind, but today's government will not last as long,'' Mr. Taqat said, referring to the Soviets.
Up on Swimming Pool Hill one recent evening, five police officers in blue uniforms took time off from their duties, dancing in a circle near the swimming pool, their outstretched arms swaying to Tajik music floating from the window of their Toyota Land Cruiser.
Watching them, another Afghan taking in the air, Harun Merzad, 34, who was jobless and wearing a black hat and a G-Star Raw jacket, spoke of the Americans' impending departure, and of the Soviets' before it, with indifference -- as if it was inevitable that once again Afghanistan would revert to what it always had been.
''I don't have anything bad to say,'' he said of the Russians with a shrug. ''Except they were infidels.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOREIGN FOOTPRINT: Top, the restored Soviet-era Swimming Pool Hill in Kabul. Above from left, a crumbling mural at the House of Science and Culture
Abdul Wahid Taqat, a K.G.B.-trained intelligence officer during the Soviet years and now a military analyst
and the outside of the House of Science and Culture, near the Russian Embassy. (A6)
 The Mikrorayon apartment blocks were built for Soviet administrators and the Afghan elite. More photos: nytimes.com/world. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREA BRUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) MAPS: The Soviet Embassy was located on Darulaman Road. (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ENGINEERING (88%); TALIBAN (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); CIVIL WAR (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); DOGS (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (52%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



468 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: Occupy Movement Regroups, Preparing for Its Next Phase

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM; Reporting was contributed by Jess Bidgood from Boston, Robbie Brown from Atlanta, Dan Frosch from Denver, Ian Lovett from Los Angeles, Carol Pogash from Oakland, Steven Yaccino from Chicago and William Yardley from Seattle. Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
The ragtag Occupy Wall Street encampments that sprang up in scores of cities last fall, thrusting ''We are the 99 percent'' into the vernacular, have largely been dismantled, with a new wave of crackdowns and evictions in the past week. Since the violent clashes last month in Oakland, Calif., headlines about Occupy have dwindled, too.
Far from dissipating, groups around the country say they are preparing for a new phase of larger marches and strikes this spring that they hope will rebuild momentum and cast an even brighter glare on inequality and corporate greed. But this transition is filled with potential pitfalls and uncertainties: without the visible camps or clear goals, can Occupy become a lasting force for change? Will disruptive protests do more to galvanize or alienate the public?
Though still loosely organized, the movement is putting down roots in many cities. Activists in Chicago and Des Moines have rented offices, a significant change for groups accustomed to holding open-air assemblies or huddling in tents in bad weather. 
On any night in New York City, which remains a hub of the movement, a dozen working groups on issues like ''food justice'' and ''arts and culture'' meet in a Wall Street atrium, and ''general assemblies'' have formed in 14 neighborhoods. Around the country, small demonstrations -- often focused on banks and ending foreclosure evictions -- take place almost daily.
If the movement has not produced public leaders, some visible faces have emerged.
''I'm finally going to make it to the dentist next week,'' said Dorli Rainey, a Seattle activist. ''I've had to cancel so many times. It's overwhelming.''
Ms. Rainey, who is 85 and was pepper-sprayed by the police in November, has been fully booked for months. On a recent Thursday, she joined 10 people in Olympia, Wash., who were supporting a State Senate resolution to remove American soldiers from Afghanistan. She led a rally near Pike Place Market against steam incinerators, which the protesters complain release pollution in the downtown area. In March, she plans to join Occupy leaders in Washington for events that are still being planned.
''People have different goals,'' Ms. Rainey said. ''Mine is, we've got to build a movement that will replace the type of government we have now.''
Jumping on a proposal from Portland, Ore., groups in 34 cities have agreed to ''a day of nonviolent direct action'' on Feb. 29 against corporations accused of working against the public interest. Then on May 1, they will try to persuade thousands of Americans who share their belief that the system is rigged against the poor and the middle class to skip work and school, in what they are calling ''a general strike'' -- or ''a day without the 99 percent.''
''Inspiring more people to get angry and involved is the top priority,'' said Bill Dobbs, a member of the press committee of Occupy Wall Street and a veteran of the Act Up campaign for people with H.I.V. and AIDS. He added that people could ''take action on whatever issue is important to them, whether economic justice, the environment or peace.''
But some experts who credit Occupy's achievements to date wonder if the earnest activists will overplay their hand. Some question how many people will heed a call to stay home from work on May 1, especially since labor unions, which have generally supported Occupy's message, say they will not strike for the day. And beyond that, Occupy's utopian calls for democracy and justice may be drowned out by the presidential campaign.
''They've gotten the people's attention, and now they have to say something more specific,'' said William A. Galston, a senior fellow and an expert on political strategy at the Brookings Institution in Washington. ''Average Americans want solutions, not demonstrations, and their patience for the latter won't last indefinitely.''
Some of Occupy's dilemmas are those of any emerging movement. ''Some of the stuff you do to get attention often puts off your audience,'' said David S. Meyer, a professor at the University of California, Irvine, who studies social movements. ''It's a delicate balance, being provocative enough to get attention and still draw sympathy.''
The issue has been posed most starkly in Oakland, where a militant faction is openly courting conflict with a hostile police department, undermining public support and leading to sharp ideological divides. Some activists have formed separate groups dedicated to nonviolent methods, though tensions are not as acute elsewhere. Crimes reported in some of the camps in the fall also discredited the movement in the eyes of its critics.
But without question, the unfurling of sleeping bags by a few dozen people near Wall Street on Sept. 17 struck a national chord. ''In three months, this movement succeeded in shifting political discourse more than labor had been able to accomplish with years of lobbying and electoral campaigns,'' said Robert Master, the Northeast political director for the Communications Workers of America, which represents more than half a million telecommunications workers.
''I think there are going to be tremendous opportunities for labor and the Occupy movement to work together,'' Mr. Master said. ''We have different roles-- as labor we are much more embedded in mainstream politics. But we understand that without the pressure of more radical direct-action tactics, the debate in this country won't change substantially.''
Though President Obama has not publicly embraced the Occupy movement, its fingerprints are evident in his increased focus on economic fairness.
Mr. Galston, the political expert in Washington, said the movement's success in making inequality more visible ''could have an impact down the road on campaigns and elections and agendas.'' But he also said that ''to this day, the movement has never crystallized its ideas into an agenda.''
So far, home foreclosures are the most consistent target. Groups in Minneapolis are currently camped in homes facing foreclosure. In Atlanta, they take credit for using this method to save the house of an Iraq war veteran, pressing the bank to offer her refinancing after it had already set a date for eviction.
In Providence, R.I., protesters made a deal with the city, agreeing to abandon their camp peacefully this month in return for the city's opening of a new day center for the homeless.
But many in the movement appear to be pinning their biggest hopes on the nationwide protests planned for the spring and summer. To foster personal ties, Occupy Wall Street veterans, mainly from New York, embarked on a five-week bus tour of a dozen Northeast cities to exchange ideas on protest goals and methods and to hold training sessions with other Occupy groups.
''Without the camps, we're in a bit of a lull,'' Austin Guest, 31, said in New York. He is one of the many younger men and women who have given over their lives to Occupy, often sleeping on sofas and scraping by with donated food or part-time jobs. The actions planned for the spring ''will be more substantial and a much greater threat,'' he said.
On a recent Saturday evening, some 50 volunteers met in a Greenwich Village church to discuss May Day activities for the city. The group included a mix of ages and races, with graduate students, teachers, older labor veterans and some full-time activists.
In the style of the Occupy movement, it operated with a requirement of consensus. A person designated as the ''stack taker'' directed the order of speakers and people wiggled or ''twinkled'' their fingers in the air to show agreement. They discussed a possible schedule of protests for May Day: disrupting commerce that morning, perhaps, and then joining an immigrant rights demonstration at midday and staging a march in the evening.
''Is this O.K.?'' the designated facilitator politely asked every few minutes as he moved along the agenda. ''Does anyone object?''
A danger for a movement like this, driven by a committed core group with strong views, is political marginalization, said Todd Gitlin, an expert on social movements at Columbia University. Mr. Gitlin, whose book ''Occupy Nation'' will be published electronically by HarperCollins in April, said, ''You can be big but still isolated,'' which he said was what happened to the radical antiwar movement he joined in the 1960s.
Another challenge will be sustaining public anger if the economy continues to show signs of recovery and unemployment falls. Jessica Reznicek, 30, a protester from Des Moines, said the economy in Iowa ''is much stronger'' than in other places, adding, ''there's not the level of escalation here.'' After five demonstration-related arrests in recent weeks, she is taking a step back and refocusing on specific efforts, like challenging companies that make genetically modified crops.
But deeper concerns about inequality are not likely to disappear, said Damon A. Silvers, policy director for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., nor is the widely shared desire ''for the economy to be run for the interests of the majority, not a tiny wealthy minority.''
''Whether the individuals in Occupy Wall Street and their organization turn out to be the center of this sentiment in the next year, I don't know,'' Mr. Silvers said. ''But that sentiment will be a powerful force in our country, and the Occupy movement deserves credit for that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the Occupy Wall Street movement have started a five-week bus tour to exchange ideas and hold training sessions with other Occupy groups. Above, a workshop at the First Churches of Northampton during a stop in Massachusetts. Below, the arrival in Northampton. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18)
Top, a march in Northampton, Mass., by visiting and local Occupy activists ended at City Hall. Above, Dorli Rainey of Seattle became a public face of the Occupy movement after she was pepper-sprayed by the police during a protest in November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSHUA TRUJILLO/SEATTLEPI.COM, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); EVICTION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (67%); FORECLOSURE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



469 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Power Station's Closing Could Create Problems

BYLINE: By KARI LYDERSEN. 
klydersen@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
For years, environmental and health organizations have called for the closing of the 83-year-old coal-fired State Line Power Station, one of the Chicago area's top polluters.
Now the plant, which is in Hammond, just across the Indiana border on Lake Michigan and adjacent to Calumet Park, is burning through its last stores of coal. It will stop generating electricity by March 31. Federal air quality regulations that take effect in coming years and -- more immediately -- competition from inexpensive natural gas make it uneconomical to run the plant, according to Dominion Resources, the Richmond, Va., company that bought it in 2002.
While many environmentalists are cheering the closing, it raises new environmental and land-use challenges. It will also be an economic blow to Hammond, and to about 100 employees, most of them members of the United Steelworkers union and many who have worked there for decades. 
''It's not a good thing for the city economically, but at the same time the air we breathe will be a little cleaner -- what's that worth financially?'' said Mayor Thomas M. McDermott Jr. of Hammond.
Similar situations are playing out nationwide as aging coal plants close, including a Dominion plant in Salem, Mass.; six Midwestern and Eastern coal plants owned by FirstEnergy Corp.; and, potentially, the Fisk and Crawford plants in Chicago in coming years.
Lower natural gas prices from the increase in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, of shale gas deposits have made it much less profitable to produce electricity from coal. This is especially true for facilities like State Line and the Chicago coal plants, which sell electricity on a highly competitive short-term wholesale market rather than through long-term contracts.
''These companies bought coal plants based on certain assumptions about the price of natural gas,'' said William Boyd, a professor of energy law at the University of Colorado. ''Shale gas turned their world upside down, and retrofitting old coal plants to meet new environmental regulations doesn't make sense anymore.''
Some coal plants elsewhere in the country have been retrofitted to burn natural gas. But Dominion and Midwest Generation, which owns the Chicago plants, said converting would be too expensive.
Doug McFarlan, a spokesman for Midwest Generation, said, ''We will continue to evaluate numerous factors -- including the capital expenditures required to comply with environmental regulations and market conditions that impact our ability to recover costs -- in making decisions about future investments in any of our power generating units.''
Dominion had planned to close State Line in 2014, but last summer the company said the plant would be shut down by March.
Environmental advocates have long said the sooner the better, since medical studies link emissions from coal plants to higher rates of asthma attacks, cardiac disease and premature death among surrounding residents.
Old coal plants like State Line -- the current boilers date to 1955 and 1963 -- have not had to meet the same environmental regulations as new plants. Environmentalists have portrayed State Line as a justice issue because three-quarters of nearby residents are minorities and almost one-fifth live below the poverty line.
Even so, the closing will have serious economic consequences for the already struggling area. State Line is the biggest property tax payer in Hammond, at about $4.5 million a year.
At Pucci's Restaurant and Pizzeria, which for decades has delivered food to overtime workers and served beer and pizza to men dropping by after their shifts, the prospect of cleaner air does not count for much.
''It's almost a tragedy,'' said Frank Pucci, an owner of the restaurant. ''Some of my best customers are losing their jobs. I've been in the area all my life, and nobody ever talked about the so-called pollution from State Line.''
Moving up the closing date is a major frustration for about 30 workers who turn 55 between now and 2014. Employees who are 55 and older when laid off can continue to purchase moderately priced health insurance through Dominion, but younger workers cannot.
''With our exposure to coal dust, mercury, welding gases -- I don't know what my medical future will be,'' said Jeff Kuzma, 52, a welder who has worked at the plant for 33 years.
Dan Genest, a spokesman for Dominion, said other employers had called wanting to hire their workers, and the company is hosting a job fair on Thursday. But workers are skeptical.
''We all know age discrimination is against the law, but realistically these companies are going to want someone who can put in a lot more years,'' said David Weaver, president of Steelworkers Local 12502, who started as a janitor at State Line 30 years ago and worked his way up to control room operator.
As the shutdown nears, urban planners, environmental leaders and elected officials are envisioning new uses for the property, including transforming it into a park that would connect existing Chicago and Indiana bike trails or making it the site of a wind or solar farm. There have also been calls to preserve the plant's Renaissance revival architecture, with its intricate brickwork.
Environmentalists, however, fear the site may be contaminated with toxins and heavy metals, which could potentially run into the lake during rains or leach into the groundwater.
Jim Norvelle, another Dominion spokesman, said the company currently had no plans to test the site for contamination, or to sell or develop it for recreational, commercial or alternative-energy uses.
Officials at the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management said they had no information indicating that the site was releasing hazardous waste. Unless new information comes to light, there are no government mandates for testing or cleanup.
Howard A. Learner, the executive director of the Environmental Law & Policy Center, a Midwest environmental advocacy organization, has called for an independent evaluation of the site.
According to Environmental Protection Agency records, chemicals released into the air by the plant in 2010 included nearly 30,000 pounds of sulfuric acid, 1,180 tons of hydrochloric acid and 143 pounds of mercury. It released a total of about 44,000 pounds of copper, barium, zinc and lead into Lake Michigan, the federal records said.
''We don't know what's there, but there are some red flags,'' Mr. Learner said. ''This is the tip of the iceberg of a broader problem as more old coal plants shut down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In March, Dominion Resources is closing the coal-fired State Line Power Station in Hammond. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE MORE /CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL FIRED PLANTS (91%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (75%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (75%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); ASTHMA (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (61%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HEART DISEASE (50%)

COMPANY: FIRSTENERGY CORP (84%); DOMINION RESOURCES INC (57%)

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (84%); D (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (57%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (72%) MIDWEST USA (93%); LAKE MICHIGAN (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



470 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Entrepreneurs, Scaling Mt. Paperwork

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
TEPID economic growth has left many people out of work or underemployed. While some wait for a better job, or any job at all, to come along, others will try to create their own jobs from scratch by starting a business.
What budding entrepreneurs may not realize is that there is a fair chance of creating tax headaches for themselves, too. Going into business is likely to mean more forms to fill out, tax authorities warn, and more complexity because the paperwork often relates to obscure nooks and crannies of federal and state tax codes. 
''Tax and compliance issues are more complicated than ever before,'' said Warren Hudak, head of the accounting firm Hudak & Company in New Cumberland, Pa. ''Virtually every new employer has difficulty getting used to withholding taxes and the sheer volume of work that's involved.''
Between what they must send in on behalf of their workers and their own income, sales and payroll tax obligations, ''employers could be filing tax payments three, four, five times a month,'' Mr. Hudak said. ''It makes it very hard for a small-business guy who understands widgets to keep up with those things.''
Laura Zander recalls the bewilderment that she and her husband, Doug, felt when they left their jobs as software engineers in San Francisco during the dot-com bust and set up their ''little, teeny yarn shop'' in Truckee, Calif., in 2001. The shop evolved into Jimmy Beans Wool, which does about $6 million in annual sales, mostly online, from the company's new base in Reno, Nev.
''Things seemed overly complicated in the beginning,'' she said. ''There was a learning curve.''
One ''unfortunate tax event,'' she said, provided an expensive lesson. The couple mistakenly took a substantial write-off for the cost of inventory one year early on, when it turned out that the deduction was supposed to be taken gradually as the merchandise was sold. Correcting the error greatly raised their stated income and therefore their tax liability.
''The tax bill ended up being significantly more than we thought,'' Ms. Zander said. ''It totally smacked us in the face. It was something nobody told us, and I swear we asked four or five accountants.''
The treatment of inventory is one of many fussy, quirky procedures that tax authorities and legislatures require businesses to follow. James Markham, a tax specialist at Ernst & Young who focuses on issues that entrepreneurs face, refers to them as ''the gotcha-type things.''
The chances that they will trip up a business increase as activities reach a certain level of complexity, such as when someone other than a family member goes on the payroll or sales cross state lines, Mr. Markham said. That is when accounting services become particularly important. Not only do errors cost money, but preventing them can carry a cost measured in wasted hours.
''You're this entrepreneur,'' he said, ''and you're saying, 'What's the best use of my time -- document my tax position in case I'm audited or sell my product?' ''
Tax issues for online businesses that sell into many states and abroad can be especially problematic, advisers caution. Some states, short of cash, are trying to force companies to collect tax on sales made to their residents, even when the companies are based elsewhere. Court challenges leave the success of the tactic in question, but if the trend catches on, companies could find it harder to comply with the various sets of rules and tax rates.
''We just can't afford to do that,'' Ms. Zander said. ''It would be a huge burden. We would have to change all our software and hire a bookkeeper just for that. That's a game changer for a small online business like ours.''
Hiring a competent tax professional makes sense, even for businesses with less intricate financial affairs -- if one is available. A common complaint among small-business owners is that it's hard to find a good accountant because they are caught in a no-man's land. Their financial affairs can be too intricate for off-the-shelf software or for someone accustomed to filing returns only for individuals, but the enterprises are often too small for business specialists to bother with.
That is what David Mendez discovered after he opened the Grapeful Palate, his wine shop in Morristown, N.J., in 2009.
''We had to go through three accountants before we finally landed the one we're happy with now,'' he said. ''We're a small, family-owned business. When we were looking for an accountant, we wanted someone who understood that and would help us grow.''
Instead, he said, one accountant was hard to reach, and another charged many fees.
''We would ask simple yes-or-no questions and be charged $75,'' Mr. Mendez said. ''Every time we had a question, we would get a bill in the mail.''
That was all the more galling, he said, because, as a fledgling business owner, his questions were numerous. ''Please don't assume we know any of this,'' he said. ''We know about wine and operating our store.''
Mr. Hudak expressed disdain for peers who charged for each small service, and he encouraged start-ups to seek someone who charged an inclusive fee.
''A firm should have a retainer, like $150 a month, to cover payroll tax returns and other filings,'' he said. ''What you get for the monthly fee is a relationship, someone you can lean on. There should be no charge for a phone call or per page.''
Mr. Mendez was impressed by the accountant he has now in part because of the questions that the accountant asked, not answered.
''He sat down and asked us what the goals for the business were, where we want to get to in the next couple of years,'' he said. ''He shaped our ideas.''
By addressing such big-picture issues, the accountant may have provided a more vital service to Mr. Mendez than tax planning. While tax matters are an important concern for business owners, advisers say, there are many others to prepare for.
''What's useful for entrepreneurs is to develop a business plan with goals and objectives, with taxes being a part of that,'' Mr. Markham said. ''Folks that are successful are the ones that have done that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Mendez, who opened the Grapeful Palate in 2009 in Morristown, N.J., says that he ultimately chose an accountant who ''sat down and asked us what the goals for the business were.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); RETAIL SALES (72%); TAX WITHHOLDING (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (69%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (50%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%)

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



471 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: In Manhattan, a Relatively Soft Landing

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
THOUGH prices and sales volume are still below precrash levels, real estate remains stronger in Manhattan than in much of the nation. The average sales price, $1.426 million, is not far off the record high of $1.591 million in 2008, according to a report analyzing sales trends in Manhattan from 2002 through 2011 released this month by Prudential Douglas Elliman. 
By comparison, prices in Atlanta are below 2000 levels; nationwide the average is 2003.
Pamela Liebman, the president of the Corcoran Group, said one hurdle to a full recovery was a lack of quality inventory at all price points. In the first quarter of 2009, there were 12,336 public listings in Manhattan, she said. In the fourth quarter of 2011, there were 8,440.
''If someone is looking for a four-bedroom apartment on Central Park West,'' she said, ''I literally have only five places I can show them.''
Dorothy Herman, the president of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that apartments priced below $800,000, considered to be entry-level in Manhattan, had been in great demand and selling well. The economy has had the greatest impact on apartments priced from $800,000 to $1.8 million, which often translates as either large one-bedrooms or small two-bedrooms, Ms. Herman said. Buyers at those levels often need jumbo mortgages, which have higher rates and tougher requirements.
In that price range, she said, sellers cannot afford to be complacent.
''The properties that have not done well are the ones that have not been fixed up and renovated and are still in the condition they were in the '60s and '70s,'' she said. ''You cannot think about throwing your home on the market today without staging it and updating it if you want to get a decent price.'' MARC SANTORA

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); TRENDS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



472 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1842 words

HEADLINE: Love You! Now, the Difficult Stuff ...

BYLINE: By ERIC V. COPAGE

 BODY:
AS Valentine's Day nears -- always prime time for engagements -- marriage experts advise asking some unromantic questions after posing the big romantic one.
Surprisingly few newly engaged couples seem to have these frank discussions, some of which can serve to avoid painful misunderstandings later on.
''Courtship-dating-romance is a process of collecting information about each other, sifting through it to decide 'Should I continue with this person?' '' said Marty Klein, a marriage and family therapist in Palo Alto, Calif. Once people decide they are in love, he said, too often they will duck tough conversations for fear of undermining what they see as a magical connection.
''People are afraid of this -- it's a biggie,'' said Rachel A. Sussman, a clinical social worker in New York. ''Remember that 'make believe' and 'happily ever after' are Hollywood concepts, and there is absolutely nothing magical about a divorce.'' 
So, what issues should couples, both gay or straight, discuss before walking down the aisle?
''Companies have a mission statement so customers can see what the values of the company are, and so its purpose is clearly communicated,'' said Nancy B. Irwin, a psychotherapist in Los Angeles. Those about to marry should, too, she said.
''For instance, couples assume they know what roles they will play in their marriage, when in fact they may be talking about something totally different,'' she said.
Dr. Irwin said it was not uncommon for one person to have Donna Reed-era attitudes about men being the providers and women being in charge of the home. This may come as a surprise to their partner, leading to fissures in the relationship.
Amy Schoen, a life coach in Rockville, Md., said, ''A couple's relationship values have to be aligned for it to go the distance.'' She suggested, however, that couples avoid making an agreement too businesslike, and opt instead for the scented candle approach of writing what she called a ''relationship vision statement.''
If having children is high on the list, couples should be very clear with each other about this goal, marriage experts said. With many people marrying later, there are matters beyond sorting out how soon they want to start a family. For example, some will face fertility issues. How couples deal with the related stress and expense can make or break a marriage, Ms. Schoen said.
''Fertility treatments -- donor eggs, genetic testing, sometimes whether to use a surrogate -- can go into the six figures,'' she said. ''And then there is the question of adoption. I've seen marriages break up over this because the partners were not on the same page.''
Others counsel that couples ought to have frank discussions about how they would handle having a child with physical or mental disabilities.
''Most people only think of the best moments -- the fairy tale where every family member is totally healthy,'' said Kami Evans, a yoga instructor in Westport, Conn., who works with children with cerebral palsy, autism, Down syndrome and similar conditions.
The consequences are so significant that the partners have to be perfectly in sync about how their lives will be affected.
Since sex is a predictable stumbling block in a long-term relationship, Ms. Sussman suggested that engaged couples ask each other, ''How would we handle it if we find ourselves dissatisfied sexually with one another, or if we find ourselves physically attracted to someone else. And how would we make it better?''
''It's a difficult dialogue,'' said Ms. Sussman, who noted that in her experience, male gay couples tended to talk more openly about this issue than straight and lesbian couples did.
While agreeing with this approach, Dr. Klein, the family therapist, suggested a positive spin: ''How do we stay sexually engaged with each other?' ''
With the economy in prolonged distress, some experts advise couples to share their credit reports. People have been burned by not knowing their spouse's financial situation, said Ms. Schoen, noting that ''a friend was engaged to someone who was five figures in debt, but she never knew it.''
But how can one raise this issue without causing a level of distrust in the relationship? Dr. Klein, the author of ''Sexual Intelligence: What We Really Want From Sex, and How to Get It,'' said that demanding to see the report in black and white is a bad idea.
Why not just ask a general question about the person's financial health, he said, adding, ''If the other person lies about this, you have bigger problems than his or her credit.''
How you ask this and other questions is crucial.
''Make sure to set a tone that is conducive to open dialogue,'' said Ms. Sussman, who is the author of ''The Breakup Bible: The Smart Woman's Guide to Healing from a Breakup or Divorce.'' ''Start off by being reassuring to each other and understanding that the goal is to get to know each other better.''
Nowhere is this more important than if you plan to marry someone who has been divorced. According to Linda Mainenti-Walsh, a matrimonial and family lawyer in Denville, N.J., asking to see a copy of the divorce complaint and settlement agreement goes a long way toward finding out ''misconduct during the marriage, such as infidelity, drug and alcohol abuse, verbal and physical abuse toward the spouse and/or children and sexual deviancy.''
''Divorce settlement agreements will reveal assets and obligations to his or her former spouse and children that may impact you and/or your marriage,'' she said.
Dr. Klein, however, cautioned that this is one demand that ''represents the depth of mistrust.'' A better route may lie in simply asking, ''What happened?''
Yet with so many first and second marriages ending in divorce, Eric Marlowe Garrison, a clinical sexologist with practices in Richmond, Va., and New York, said that before tying the knot, couples should go as far as discussing how they might untie it someday.
''You want to consider this now, while your heads are clear and not full of anger or confusion,'' Mr. Garrison said. Topics might include living arrangements (do they sleep in the same room or even the same house pending the divorce), which friends or family members might they turn to for advice, or what lessons have they learned from previous breakups.
Frederick Woolverton, a clinical psychologist in New York and an author of ''Unhooked, How to Quit Anything,'' begged to differ.
''Marriages are not made better by premarital agreements,'' he said. Nor do prenups lead to better divorces. ''To go into a marriage hedging one's bets, as it were, goes very much against the emotional tenets of marriage: faith in self and other, faith in the union of self and other.''
Of course, many people bring unresolved problems into a marriage.
''Far too often, couples are trying to avoid the fate of couples they do not admire, like your divorced parents,'' said Hal E. Runkel, a marriage and family therapist in Norcross, Ga., and author of ''The Self-Centered Marriage.'' ''We usually end up similar to whatever we focus on.''
Mr. Runkel's answer: Name two couples that you admire and would hope to emulate. ''Discussing who you'd like to follow may also reveal some very interesting expectations.''
Diana Kirschner, a psychologist in New York and the author of ''Sealing the Deal,'' said the advantage to this line of inquiry is that ''it shows you what your partner wants to create in your lives.''
''If the ideal couple are workaholics and hardly see each other, that tells you one thing,'' she continued. ''If it is a couple who spend a lot of time with each other working on their relationship, that tells you something else.''
In a similar vein, Arielle Ford, the author of ''Wabi Sabi Love: The Ancient Art of Finding Perfect Love in Imperfect Relationships,'' suggested that those preparing for marriage ask each other, ''Who should I have on speed dial for the days when I just can't figure you out? What could be more important than having someone who can give you insight into your partner, such as why their hot buttons are hot?''
Having a go-to person is a good idea, Dr. Woolverton said. ''When you're overcome with feeling, an outside source can offer a fresh perspective.''
Helpful? Perhaps. But Dr. Klein noted that this is no substitute for direct communication.
''When you can't figure out your mate, talk to your mate,'' he said. ''If she or he isn't in the mood, just wait. Unless your kid's hair is on fire, it can always wait a day or two.''
Gregory A. Kuhlman, a psychologist who directs the master's program in mental health counseling at Brooklyn College, said, ''It's actually misleading to imply to couples that their happiness and success will be based on general compatibility.''
He said that with the exception of several red flag areas -- compulsive behaviors like gambling and drug use, lack of disclosure of sexual orientation, violence and the desire to have or not have children -- ''It's less important that couples agree than that they have compatibility in their approach to conflict.''
''For instance, if one is a super avoider and the other is confrontational, there will be friction in the marriage,'' said Dr. Kuhlman, who with his wife, Patricia Schell Kuhlman, runs marriage training programs at stayhitched.com. So, the most important question is, what is your conflict management style, and how do you accommodate it to your partner's?
''In the end it is not going to be any of these items that determines a couple's happiness,'' Dr. Kuhlman said. ''It's going to be whether they can maintain an overall positive atmosphere and sense of teamwork in their marriage. It's inevitable that friction produced by their normal differences will challenge this, and they must be intent on managing these positively and cooperatively.''
Talking Points
When asking difficult questions before marrying, couples should adopt a tone conducive to an open dialogue, experts advise. And do not ask them all at once.
''Many of these items are not at all romantic to discuss,'' said Gregory A. Kuhlman, a psychologist. ''But this is far outweighed by the value of understanding each other better.''
Some partners will shut down when uncomfortable questions are asked, yet others ''are happy to be open books,'' said Nancy B. Irwin, also a psychologist. ''If your partner wants some privacy -- as opposed to secrecy -- you might want to honor that.''
Here are questions that should be asked before your wedding day:
What is our ''mission statement'' as a couple?
To what extent are you willing to go to have a family, medically?
What will we do if we find out our child has severe disabilities?
Who should I have on speed dial for the days when I just can't figure you out?
Can you name two couples that you admire and would hope to emulate?
How do we stay sexually engaged with each other?
Will we share our credit reports with each other?
Should we have an exit strategy for the marriage, and if so, what would it be?
If married previously, why did it end and what did you learn from that relationship?
What are our conflict management styles, and are they compatible?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (84%); LIFE COACHING (78%); FAMILY (78%); COUPLE COUNSELING (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (75%); CHILDREN (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (56%); MARYLAND, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



473 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: Come On, China, Buy Our Stuff!

 BODY:
The usually sure-footed Adam Davidson stumbles when he writes: ''Every month, the United States buys around $35 billion in goods and services from China and sells around $11 billion back. That, of course, leaves a $24 billion trade deficit. Currencies work like any other salable good in that they adjust based on supply and demand. The natural result should be for the dollar to get weaker as the renminbi gets stronger.'' Not so. Just as foreigners need (and, hence, demand) dollars to spend on American exports, foreigners need (and, hence, demand) dollars to invest in America. Because a rising U.S. trade deficit often signals increased foreign demand to invest in America, it's a mistake to suppose that dollars that foreigners don't spend on American exports necessarily are dollars not demanded by foreigners for use in America. In short, a rising U.S. trade deficit does not necessarily unleash market forces that weaken the dollar against other currencies. 
DONALD J. BOUDREAUX, Professor of Economics, George Mason University
We can do something about the trade imbalance, but we don't. We can impose a stiff across-the-board tariff to counter China's currency manipulation. We should also strip their most-favored-nation status and act unilaterally on our behalf outside the W.T.O. They certainly do, so why don't we? Because it would hurt the feelings of the 1 percent? Yes, we would get higher interest rates and suffer some inflation, which would affect the 99 percent, but when a hostile power (my opinion) is stripping away the entire underpinning of our economic and military muscle, shouldn't we kick our response level up a tad?
NORM WEAVER, Buffalo, posted on nytimes.com
So the commenter above believes we could win a trade war with China? Because that is what he is saying, despite all evidence to the contrary in this article.
CITIZEN, Rhode Island, posted on nytimes.com
I'm amazed at these comments. No wonder America is drowning in acrimony and bitterness. Here you have a China undervaluing its currency with the result of millions of American jobs lost (as well as manufacturing know-how and relationships) and Americans (or Chinese hackers?) seemingly jump with joy. If we really are a country of hate, resentment and ill will toward fellow Americans, we deserve decline. If not, we deserve a government that represents the interests of citizens, not multinational corporations whose profits have surged because they dumped American workers for Chinese ones (who live 12 to a dorm room, work 70 hours a week and make $250 a month).
LARK, San Francisco, posted on nytimes.com
E-MAIL letters to magazine@nytimes .com or post comments at nytimes.com /magazine. Letters should include the writer's name, address and daytime telephone number. We are unable to acknowledge or return unpublished submissions. Letters and comments are edited for length and clarity. The address of The New York Times Magazine is 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); WRITERS (73%); STUDENT HOUSING (72%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (72%); TRADE DISPUTES (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



474 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Party in Maldives Rejects Offer of a Unity Coalition

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Sruthi Gottipati contributed reporting from New Delhi.

 BODY:
MALE, Maldives -- The political turmoil continued in the Maldives on Saturday as the party of the former president, who says he was ousted last week in a quiet coup, refused to consider joining the government of the new president.
The current president, Mohammed Waheed Hassan, made the offer of a unity cabinet in what appeared to be an effort to tamp down sometimes violent clashes between security forces and backers of the former president, Mohamed Nasheed. But that seemed guaranteed to be a hard sell: Mr. Nasheed's backers have accused Mr. Hassan of being part of a conspiracy to snatch power. 
United Nations and United States officials have been pushing for a deal to end the unrest in the island nation, which sits amid busy international shipping lanes and where the United States and others fear Islamists could gain ground.
On Saturday, Robert O. Blake, a United States assistant secretary of state, met separately with Mr. Nasheed and Mr. Hassan to press for a compromise.
Mr. Hassan's offer to have representatives of Mr. Nasheed's party in the cabinet came at a later news conference. Mr. Hassan also said he would open an independent investigation into the circumstances that led to Mr. Nasheed's leaving office.
Mr. Nasheed, who became the first democratically elected leader of the country in 2008, first said he resigned Tuesday for the good of the country because the security forces had turned against him, but he later said he had been forced out.
The spark for the unrest was Mr. Nasheed's decision to have a judge arrested, which critics said was an example of Mr. Nasheed's penchant for overstepping his power. But Mr. Nasheed says the judge was blocking his attempts to hold the government of a former autocratic leader, Maumoon Abdul Gayoom, responsible for corruption.
Mr. Nasheed and his supporters have accused allies and supporters of Mr. Gayoom of being behind the efforts to unseat the democratically elected government. Although they have been careful not to say the new president joined with Mr. Gayoom, they have pointed out that Mr. Gayoom's people are now part of the new leadership.
Mr. Nasheed is now pushing for early elections, rather than waiting until the regularly scheduled one next year.
On Friday, the State Department recognized Mr. Hassan's government, though it later said ''the circumstances surrounding the transfer of power must be clarified.'' On Saturday, Mr. Blake said the United States was not in a position to judge whether Mr. Nasheed had been deposed but said it wanted ''the highest standards of democracy'' restored in the Maldives.
Mr. Blake, however, also spoke out against early elections. He said the police, the judiciary and the election commission were ''not prepared for early elections'' and needed more time. ''The coalition will work with all parties to reform and improve the capacity of the police, judiciary and Election Commission,'' he said.
On Saturday, Male, an island of less than a square mile, was calm. But on several other islands of the 1,200 that make up the Maldives, an Indian Ocean country of 400,000 people, there were reports that security forces had beaten and detained members of Mr. Nasheed's party and his supporters. (It was not immediately possible to verify those assertions independently.)
In his news conference, Mr. Hassan acknowledged that there had been what he described as some overreaction by the police, especially in a protest in Male earlier in the week. But he put much of the blame on Mr. Nasheed and his party. Mr. Hassan said members of the party had destroyed public property.
About a third of the country's economy is based on tourism, much of it from luxury resorts on islands where no Maldivians live. So far, the turmoil has not appeared to have discouraged visitors, but Britain has already issued a travel advisory discouraging tourists from going.
An adviser to Mr. Nasheed, Ibrahim Ismail, said that Mr. Hassan's accusations against their party were unproven and that the police in the southern city of Addu, the country's second largest, appeared to be systematically targeting party leaders, including the mayor, who has gone into hiding.
Mr. Ismail said he personally was detained briefly on Friday when he visited Addu, which is about a 90-minute flight from Male. He said residents had told him on the phone and via text message that they had been beaten and held in custody by the police, soldiers and supporters of Mr. Gayoom, the autocrat who ruled the Maldives for 30 years. Some supporters of the party in Addu offered similar stories in telephone interviews.
Mr. Gayoom, who was traveling in Malaysia, could not be reached for comment. A spokeswoman for his party, Dunya Maumoon, said the police and the party had only responded to provocation from Mr. Nasheed's supporters, who she said had burned police stations and destroyed other public property. ''From our side, we have to go ahead and ensure security,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mohammed Waheed Hassan, who became president on Tuesday, discussed the country's political turmoil on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIARA GOIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: An American diplomat visited Male, the Maldivian capital. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUPS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CONSPIRACY (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); CORRUPTION (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MALDIVES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



475 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Desperation And Restraining Orders

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
If you have spent any time in New York as a relatively sane, straight, single woman, you perhaps possess an intimate awareness of a certain subset of the human species known as Unavailable Guy, the kind of man who views you as a therapeutically dictated experiment, a shift from his usual type.
His type, in this instance, is the unhinged lunatic, the sort of woman who will call him panicked, a dozen times, at 3 a.m. and beg him to come over because she can't find her stapler. Many years ago, I had a close friend, a handsome and talented poet and painter who transitioned from a girlfriend who tried to light his living room on fire to another who ran down Second Avenue, naked but for a vintage fur coat, in the middle of the night. Some women acquit themselves ambitiously toward a registry, others toward a restraining order. (Over the past several years, two memoirists, veterans of the Manhattan dating scene, have sought to dissect the proclivity for this sort of woman: Rick Marin in his book ''Cad: Confessions of a Toxic Bachelor,'' and Steve Friedman in ''Lost on Treasure Island: A Memoir of Longing, Love and Lousy Choices in New York City.'') 
It has been a good, long while since a sex scandal has produced anything close to sympathy for a male participant, but the past week has given us cause to feel twinges of compassion for the Yankees' general manager, Brian Cashman, who seems, above all, to have been a victim of his own injudicious tastes.
According to a complaint filed in Manhattan Criminal Court on Feb. 2, Mr. Cashman got to know a TriBeCa woman, Louise Neathway, in April 2011. She eventually began stalking and harassing him, the complaint says. In the fall of last year, court documents say, Ms. Neathway demanded $15,000 for an undisclosed medical procedure and threatened to ''assert facts'' to the news media and Mr. Cashman's family if she didn't receive it.
Ms. Neathway says they had an affair, and Mr. Cashman says they didn't. But he did turn over $6,000 to her, court records show, which does little to lend credence to his denials. Between April and January, Ms. Neathway called and texted Mr. Cashman ''hundreds of times, sometimes calling and texting over 10 times in one night,'' according to the complaint. A day after Ms. Neathway was charged, Mr. Cashman's wife, Mary, filed for divorce.
What, we might ask ourselves, could have tuned Mr. Cashman in to Ms. Neathway's instability? Perhaps the fact that she could not seem to settle on a single name: Known as Louise Neathway, she also calls herself Louise Meanwell. Additionally, as The Daily News reported last week, Ms. Neathway's ex-husband, his current wife and his mother all have orders of protection against her.
When Ms. Neathway was arrested, she was a few weeks away from having harassment charges cleared in a case with an ex-boyfriend. Currently, 13 people have restraining orders against her. Perhaps Mr. Cashman's Google access was impeded when he was getting to know her, or perhaps he saw in Ms. Neathway the potential for drama that the failure to have acquired the Cy Young Award winner Cliff Lee could not alone supply.
This story, though, is ultimately less about the alleged philandering of a powerful married man and more about the desperation that can afflict a certain kind of woman who comes to New York with glamorous ambitions and fails spectacularly to meet them.
Until she relocated to Rikers Island, where she awaits indictment, Ms. Neathway, who is British, had been living in a luxury rental building on Leonard Street with a round swimming pool, all of which her status as an unemployed saleswoman could have hardly sustained. Pictures of her published on blogs and in tabloids show her as a beautiful young woman, an avid party girl, and now as the spent-looking figure she has become, at the merely post-adolescent age of 36.
Ms. Neathway's drama is conveniently unfolding on the 50th anniversary of the publication of ''Sex and the Single Girl,'' Helen Gurley Brown's loopy summons to erotic liberation. Having inaugurated a giddy new culture of urban single life, the book assured women that, with the right steps, dazzling careers and wealthy men would all be theirs.
Twenty-five ago, the film ''Fatal Attraction'' temporarily reversed the high. But eventually, ''Sex and the City'' came along to erase that movie's bleak vision of the unmarried Manhattan woman, instead glorifying a lifestyle that the '80s had worked so hard to disparage. The mythology of the happy ending has endured ever since, kept alive by the popping up of one baby store after another, uptown and down, each with its flax bassinet sheets meant to suggest that fate chicly assumes the best.
Ms. Neathway reminds us how baroquely untrue this can be, how many desires can go unsatisfied and how many resentments can foment. Last week, A. J. Daulerio, the Gawker editor who applied Woodward and Bernstein tenacity to the story for the sports blog Deadspin, told me that Ms. Neathway had been calling him from Rikers and asking him to come see her. When I spoke with him, he hadn't made the trip. The visiting lines in jail, he said, can get so long.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HE SAID, SHE SAID: A complaint filed in Manhattan Criminal Court says that Brian Cashman, the Yankees general manager, was stalked and harassed by Louise Neathway, who says they had an affair. Mr. Cashman denies any relationship. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JEFFERSON SIEGEL) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTRAINING ORDERS (90%); SEX SCANDALS (74%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (73%); STALKING (73%); WRITERS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (60%); SCANDALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



476 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Egypt's Never-Ending Revolution

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. COOK. 
A senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of ''The Struggle for Egypt: From Nasser to Tahrir Square.''

 BODY:
Washington
CAIRO is tense and polarized. Egypt's military is groping for solutions to the many political and economic problems that have beset the country since the fall of the old government. Various political parties and groups are united in their opposition to military rule despite being divided among themselves. The Muslim Brotherhood, meanwhile, is trying to remain above the fray and out of the line of fire by making deals with the army. And despite the promise of parliamentary elections and the prospect of a new constitution, the situation remains highly unstable.
One could be forgiven for thinking this is a description of early 2012, but it is actually an account of early 1954, when Gamal Abdel Nasser and his military colleagues, known as the Free Officers, first consolidated their power in Egypt. 
Indeed, if the Egyptian revolutionaries who have battled the police and military over the past few months closed their eyes tight enough, forgot about Al Jazeera, Facebook and Twitter, they might find themselves amid the throngs of students engaged in a pitched battle with security forces on the Qasr al-Nil bridge in late February 1954 as they made their way to the presidential palace demanding that Nasser turn Egypt over to civilian rule.
Egypt's history is not a formula for the future. Yet in order for Egyptians to avoid repeating the disastrous course of the past, they will need to find the means to prevent the military from imposing its will on society in the way that Nasser did in the 1950s.
The events in Egypt since last January, when millions took to the streets, eventually ousting Hosni Mubarak on Feb. 11, have been nothing short of extraordinary. The people are not supposed to bring down Egyptian rulers; they are instead supposed to build pyramids in memory of those leaders.
But the fact that 2012 resembles 1954 should not be a complete surprise. After all, the players are the same: the military, the Muslim Brotherhood, students or youth activists, and myriad political parties proclaiming the mantle of liberalism. Like the present-day Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which pushed Mr. Mubarak from office last February, the Free Officers who ousted King Farouk in July 1952 had no plan for how they would rule the country other than vague notions of reform.
To be sure, the left and labor movements had a more prominent role in opposing the Free Officers in the 1950s than those same groups do today in opposing the military, but Egypt's political dynamics have hardly changed.
Today's revolutionaries and activists have precisely the same demands for social justice, national dignity and representative government as the opponents of military rule did six decades ago.
After a brief honeymoon with a political class and public that regarded Nasser and his collaborators as saviors, opposition to the Free Officers emerged over suspicions that the commanders were reneging on their promises to clean up a corrupt political system and quickly hand power back to civilians.
In response to the determination of organized labor, the left, political parties and students to resist the Free Officers, the commanders used a combination of coercive measures -- outright force and military tribunals -- to subdue the opposition, followed by a variety of rules, decrees and regulations to prevent further challenges to the Free Officers' authority. These institutions were authoritarian and constituted the foundation of Egypt's nondemocratic politics for the ensuing 60 years.
The world has changed dramatically since the Free Officers whipped up instability in the streets of Cairo to justify their rule. Still, understanding the political patterns of the past provides insight into why and how leaders thwart popular demands for democratic governance. It can also help today's activists, party leaders and average Egyptians write a new and considerably brighter political history for their country.
This is particularly important because even as Egypt's current military rulers promise that they are preparing the ground for democracy, their actions belie this claim.
Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, who currently holds executive authority, and his senior commanders have a compelling interest in salvaging as much as they can of the old political order, which made them the source of legitimacy, authority and power; provided the military with the benefits of vast business interests; and, to the minds of the officers, ensured stability and social cohesion.
These interests clearly contradict the basic features of a democracy -- in which the people are the source of legitimacy, the military's activities are subject to civilian oversight, politics are unpredictable and power changes hands.
Egypt's democracy activists understandably fear the intentions of both the military and the Muslim Brotherhood, whose own democratic credentials are hardly above reproach. The broader Egyptian public has, through its participation in the recent parliamentary elections, taken the first step in preventing the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces from re-establishing an authoritarian political system.
In the run-up to Egypt's election season, Field Marshal Tantawi and his officers wanted two seemingly contradictory outcomes: a strong voter turnout to legitimize the military's handling of the current interregnum and a weak Parliament that would be easy to manipulate.
Instead, high voter turnout -- 54 percent of eligible voters, according to Egypt's election commission -- means that the leaders of the new People's Assembly can credibly claim a popular mandate and thus have the capacity to resist the officers. The military has consistently claimed the support of the public, especially the mythical ''silent majority,'' for everything it has done over the last year, but now Parliament can do the same and has the votes to prove it.
Investing the People's Assembly with power will not be sufficient to guarantee Egypt's democratic future. The critical challenge is for Egyptians to draft a constitution that subordinates the military to elected civilian officials and establishes safeguards against the executive's abuse of power, no matter who is in charge.
Limiting the power of the executive may seem like a challenge for a country without a strong democratic tradition, but liberal political ideas about the need for a balanced government have long animated Egypt's politics.
After all, Egyptian civilians wrote a democratic constitution in 1954, which the military discarded. And the 1971 Constitution, before it was watered down, included strong liberal elements, like identifying the people as the source of sovereignty, endowing citizens with a range of personal as well as political freedoms, and investing Parliament with oversight powers that Egypt's leaders ignored largely through emergency decrees. These are important precedents.
If Egyptians can now actually bring democratic ideals to life in a new constitution and an independent Parliament can resist the military's own efforts to shape Egypt's post-Mubarak politics, they will have done much to avoid the traps of Egyptian history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Gamal Abdel Nasser and the Free Officers, 1952. Left, protesters gathered in Cairo on Jan. 25, the first anniversary of the 2011 revolution. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEYSTONE-FRANCE/GAMMA-KEYSTONE VIA GETTY IMAGES
 MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); HISTORY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (66%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) EGYPT (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



477 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Tramps Like Them

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE. 
Nicholas Confessore is a political correspondent for The Times.

 BODY:
COMING APART
The State of White America, 1960-2010
By Charles Murray
407 pp. Crown Forum. $27.
For some decades now, a popular conservative narrative of modern America has gone something like this: Our center-right nation, devout and industrious, is ruled by a politically liberal elite that disdains family, despises religion and celebrates indolence with government handouts. Many people find this story convincing. It helped fracture the postwar Democratic Party and midwifed the culture wars. Today it feeds the political frustrations of the Tea Party movement.
Charles Murray, the influential conservative scholar and provocateur, believes this story is wrong. In his new book, ''Coming Apart,'' Murray flips the script that has energized Republican politics and campaigns since Richard Nixon: the white working class, he argues, is no longer part of a virtuous silent majority. Instead, beginning in the early 1960s, it has become increasingly alienated from what Murray calls ''the founding virtues'' of civic life. ''Our nation is coming apart at the seams,'' Murray warns -- ''not ethnic seams, but the seams of class.'' 
Using a statistical construct he calls Fishtown -- inspired by an actual white, blue-collar neighborhood of the same name in Philadelphia -- Murray sorts through demographic data to present a startling picture. Women in Fishtown now routinely have children outside of marriage. Less than a third of its children grow up in households that include both biological parents. The men claim physical disability at astounding rates and are less likely to hold down jobs than in the past. Churchgoing among the white working class has declined, eroding the social capital that organized religion once provided.
Illegitimacy, crime, joblessness -- these are not merely the much debated pathologies of a black underclass, Murray finds. They are white people problems too.
And what of the white upper class? In place of an aristocracy of inherited wealth, Murray suggests, we now have an aristocracy of inherited intelligence. Drawing liberally on his own past work, most notably ''The Bell Curve,'' a controversial 1994 study of intelligence, Murray says those with high I.Q.'s have replaced the old WASP elite in a modern economy that rewards brains over bloodlines.
High-I.Q. Americans have come to dominate elite colleges. They tend to marry one another -- ''cognitive homogamy'' -- and produce children statistically more likely to be smart themselves.
Cocooned in the same neighborhoods, this new upper class has its own culture. Its members don't watch game shows or go to bars with pool tables in them. They are skinnier. They don't smoke. They are, Murray insists, predominantly liberal. Yet this overclass, Murray finds, is also truer to the founding American virtues than is the white working class.
Murray constructs a fictional town for this new upper class as well, which he calls Belmont. While marriage did indeed decline among Belmont whites, the drop stabilized in the mid-1980s. In Belmont, births outside of marriage rose, but far more gradually than in Fishtown. The men -- and many of the women -- hold down jobs and work hard. Couples may have babies later in life, but they are meticulous about rearing them and obsessive about getting them into college.
The problem, Murray argues, is not that members of the new upper class eat French cheese or vote for Barack Obama. It is that they have lost the confidence to preach what they practice, adopting instead a creed of ''ecumenical niceness.'' They work, marry and raise children, but they refuse to insist that the rest of the country do so, too. ''The belief that being a good American involved behaving in certain kinds of ways, and that the nation itself relied upon a certain kind of people in order to succeed, had begun to fade and has not revived,'' Murray writes.
Few people today would dismiss the idea that values, culture and intelligence all play a role in economic success. But it is hard to know what to make of some of Murray's findings. As with David Brooks's ''Bobos in Paradise,''Murray's sociology depends a lot on his own, sometimes highly idiosyncratic, fieldwork. To demonstrate that the elite are more likely to drive foreign cars than domestic ones, Murray notes the makes of automobiles in a couple of mall parking lots. In an otherwise persuasive chapter arguing that Ivy League graduates tend to live near one another, Murray quotes a remark by Michael Barone, the conservative commentator, complaining about the profusion of Harvard and Yale graduates on his former block. If Murray believes that wealthy yuppies suffer from creeping nonjudgmentalism, I invite him to spend an hour on UrbanBaby.com.
''Coming Apart'' is also rich with charts, footnotes and regression analyses: Like ''The Bell Curve,'' written with Richard Herrnstein, it is presented as a work of scholarship. Yet it will be reviewed first not by other academics but by professional amateurs like me, so it's worth noting what happened long after ''The Bell Curve'' fell off the best-seller lists. Once Murray's fellow social scientists finished peer-/reviewing his data, some accused him of massaging his results to produce the book's central assertions -- that I.Q. tests are a good measure of general human intelligence, that intelligence is largely heritable and that there is little government can do to improve the lot of people who are born less smart.
Those questions linger for ''Coming Apart.'' One of its overriding themes is that economic insecurity doesn't have much to do with eroding civic values, so we shouldn't bother using government to tackle inequality. You will learn about working-class laziness, but you will find little discussion of the decline of trade unions or the rise of a service economy built on part-time work without benefits. Murray dismisses research by scholars who have found that people in bankruptcy court usually end up there because they lost a job, got divorced or faced catastrophic medical bills, pointing to a contrary study of a single year's worth of bankruptcy filings in Delaware, home to many of America's credit card companies but very few of its citizens.
Though a self-described libertarian, Murray is not immune to the rage of the 99 percent. He lashes into bloated C.E.O. pay, but chiefly as a symptom of collapsing codes of behavior and propriety. And he is also skeptical that working-class whites are employed less because they can't find decent jobs. How can the economy have anything to do with it, he asks, when the decades in question have included periods of rapid economic growth?
Perhaps because not everyone has shared in that growth. While Murray's new upper class was taking home an ever greater share of national wealth, incomes for almost everyone else were stagnating. During the decade preceding the 2008 bust, according to the Census Bureau, median family income in the United States dropped from $61,000 a year to $60,500.
Indeed, in comparison with the early 1960s, American workers today are less likely to have pensions, less likely to be able to support a family on a single income and, until the much-reviled ObamaCare law kicks in, less likely to be able to afford health insurance if their employer doesn't provide it. Working-class whites are different from the cognitive elite in at least one way: They have less money.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A street in the Fishtown neighborhood of Philadelphia, Charles Murray's symbol of white working-class malaise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (85%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); RELIGION (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010 (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



478 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Policy: Why or Why Not?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Do Manufacturers Need Special Treatment?'' (Economic View, Feb. 5), Christina D. Romer's critique of arguments for a manufacturing policy: 
We should remember that ultra-advanced manufacturing of the sort that once formed the backbone of the United States economy -- and has now been migrating to Japan and Germany -- not only creates better jobs for ordinary workers but also powerfully bolsters a nation's exports. It is not an accident, for instance, that when it comes to exports to China, Japan far outpaces the United States, despite the fact that Japan has less than half the population.
The reason American manufacturing has been in decline is not because of any fundamental demerits of manufacturing but rather because United States trade policy has been weak and dysfunctional for two generations. Eamonn Fingleton
Tokyo, Feb. 5
The writer is the author of ''In Praise of Hard Industries.''
To the Editor:
In the column, Professor Romer discussed three rationales for special government support of manufacturing that she saw as not completely convincing. But a fourth rationale deserves consideration.
Spectacular economic growth during the 20th century was driven by simultaneous successes in manufacturing and innovation -- the creation of completely new products and markets. Was this a coincidence? More importantly, can humans innovate efficiently when they don't build things?
Professor Romer notes that earnings from innovation exports, like ''architectural plans for a building in Shanghai,'' are as real as earnings from manufacturing exports. True, but would American architectural engineering ultimately maintain its market position if the United States outsourced all of its own building construction to foreign companies?
Both history and evolutionary theory suggest that humans innovate better when they manufacture. To place future economic bets on knowledge, America must understand -- and fully support -- all sources of human innovation. Rob Rowan
Mangilao, Guam, Feb. 5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (78%); WRITERS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); OUTSOURCING (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); ENGINEERING (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (65%); EVOLUTION THEORY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (76%) EAST CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



479 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2076 words

HEADLINE: The Age of Big Data

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR. 
A technology reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
GOOD with numbers? Fascinated by data? The sound you hear is opportunity knocking.
Mo Zhou was snapped up by I.B.M. last summer, as a freshly minted Yale M.B.A., to join the technology company's fast-growing ranks of data consultants. They help businesses make sense of an explosion of data -- Web traffic and social network comments, as well as software and sensors that monitor shipments, suppliers and customers -- to guide decisions, trim costs and lift sales. ''I've always had a love of numbers,'' says Ms. Zhou, whose job as a data analyst suits her skills.
To exploit the data flood, America will need many more like her. A report last year by the McKinsey Global Institute, the research arm of the consulting firm, projected that the United States needs 140,000 to 190,000 more workers with ''deep analytical'' expertise and 1.5 million more data-literate managers, whether retrained or hired. 
The impact of data abundance extends well beyond business. Justin Grimmer, for example, is one of the new breed of political scientists. A 28-year-old assistant professor at Stanford, he combined math with political science in his undergraduate and graduate studies, seeing ''an opportunity because the discipline is becoming increasingly data-intensive.'' His research involves the computer-automated analysis of blog postings, Congressional speeches and press releases, and news articles, looking for insights into how political ideas spread.
The story is similar in fields as varied as science and sports, advertising and public health -- a drift toward data-driven discovery and decision-making. ''It's a revolution,'' says Gary King, director of Harvard's Institute for Quantitative Social Science. ''We're really just getting under way. But the march of quantification, made possible by enormous new sources of data, will sweep through academia, business and government. There is no area that is going to be untouched.''
Welcome to the Age of Big Data. The new megarich of Silicon Valley, first at Google and now Facebook, are masters at harnessing the data of the Web -- online searches, posts and messages -- with Internet advertising. At the World Economic Forum last month in Davos, Switzerland, Big Data was a marquee topic. A report by the forum, ''Big Data, Big Impact,'' declared data a new class of economic asset, like currency or gold.
Rick Smolan, creator of the ''Day in the Life'' photography series, is planning a project later this year, ''The Human Face of Big Data,'' documenting the collection and uses of data. Mr. Smolan is an enthusiast, saying that Big Data has the potential to be ''humanity's dashboard,'' an intelligent tool that can help combat poverty, crime and pollution. Privacy advocates take a dim view, warning that Big Data is Big Brother, in corporate clothing.
What is Big Data? A meme and a marketing term, for sure, but also shorthand for advancing trends in technology that open the door to a new approach to understanding the world and making decisions. There is a lot more data, all the time, growing at 50 percent a year, or more than doubling every two years, estimates IDC, a technology research firm. It's not just more streams of data, but entirely new ones. For example, there are now countless digital sensors worldwide in industrial equipment, automobiles, electrical meters and shipping crates. They can measure and communicate location, movement, vibration, temperature, humidity, even chemical changes in the air.
Link these communicating sensors to computing intelligence and you see the rise of what is called the Internet of Things or the Industrial Internet. Improved access to information is also fueling the Big Data trend. For example, government data -- employment figures and other information -- has been steadily migrating onto the Web. In 2009, Washington opened the data doors further by starting Data.gov, a Web site that makes all kinds of government data accessible to the public.
Data is not only becoming more available but also more understandable to computers. Most of the Big Data surge is data in the wild -- unruly stuff like words, images and video on the Web and those streams of sensor data. It is called unstructured data and is not typically grist for traditional databases.
But the computer tools for gleaning knowledge and insights from the Internet era's vast trove of unstructured data are fast gaining ground. At the forefront are the rapidly advancing techniques of artificial intelligence like natural-language processing, pattern recognition and machine learning.
Those artificial-intelligence technologies can be applied in many fields. For example, Google's search and ad business and its experimental robot cars, which have navigated thousands of miles of California roads, both use a bundle of artificial-intelligence tricks. Both are daunting Big Data challenges, parsing vast quantities of data and making decisions instantaneously.
The wealth of new data, in turn, accelerates advances in computing -- a virtuous circle of Big Data. Machine-learning algorithms, for example, learn on data, and the more data, the more the machines learn. Take Siri, the talking, question-answering application in iPhones, which Apple introduced last fall. Its origins go back to a Pentagon research project that was then spun off as a Silicon Valley start-up. Apple bought Siri in 2010, and kept feeding it more data. Now, with people supplying millions of questions, Siri is becoming an increasingly adept personal assistant, offering reminders, weather reports, restaurant suggestions and answers to an expanding universe of questions.
To grasp the potential impact of Big Data, look to the microscope, says Erik Brynjolfsson, an economist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management. The microscope, invented four centuries ago, allowed people to see and measure things as never before -- at the cellular level. It was a revolution in measurement.
Data measurement, Professor Brynjolfsson explains, is the modern equivalent of the microscope. Google searches, Facebook posts and Twitter messages, for example, make it possible to measure behavior and sentiment in fine detail and as it happens.
In business, economics and other fields, Professor Brynjolfsson says, decisions will increasingly be based on data and analysis rather than on experience and intuition. ''We can start being a lot more scientific,'' he observes.
There is plenty of anecdotal evidence of the payoff from data-first thinking. The best-known is still ''Moneyball,'' the 2003 book by Michael Lewis, chronicling how the low-budget Oakland A's massaged data and arcane baseball statistics to spot undervalued players. Heavy data analysis had become standard not only in baseball but also in other sports, including English soccer, well before last year's movie version of ''Moneyball,'' starring Brad Pitt.
Retailers, like Walmart and Kohl's, analyze sales, pricing and economic, demographic and weather data to tailor product selections at particular stores and determine the timing of price markdowns. Shipping companies, like U.P.S., mine data on truck delivery times and traffic patterns to fine-tune routing.
Online dating services, like Match.com, constantly sift through their Web listings of personal characteristics, reactions and communications to improve the algorithms for matching men and women on dates. Police departments across the country, led by New York's, use computerized mapping and analysis of variables like historical arrest patterns, paydays, sporting events, rainfall and holidays to try to predict likely crime ''hot spots'' and deploy officers there in advance.
Research by Professor Brynjolfsson and two other colleagues, published last year, suggests that data-guided management is spreading across corporate America and starting to pay off. They studied 179 large companies and found that those adopting ''data-driven decision making'' achieved productivity gains that were 5 percent to 6 percent higher than other factors could explain.
The predictive power of Big Data is being explored -- and shows promise -- in fields like public health, economic development and economic forecasting. Researchers have found a spike in Google search requests for terms like ''flu symptoms'' and ''flu treatments'' a couple of weeks before there is an increase in flu patients coming to hospital emergency rooms in a region (and emergency room reports usually lag behind visits by two weeks or so).
Global Pulse, a new initiative by the United Nations, wants to leverage Big Data for global development. The group will conduct so-called sentiment analysis of messages in social networks and text messages -- using natural-language deciphering software -- to help predict job losses, spending reductions or disease outbreaks in a given region. The goal is to use digital early-warning signals to guide assistance programs in advance to, for example, prevent a region from slipping back into poverty.
In economic forecasting, research has shown that trends in increasing or decreasing volumes of housing-related search queries in Google are a more accurate predictor of house sales in the next quarter than the forecasts of real estate economists. The Federal Reserve, among others, has taken notice. In July, the National Bureau of Economic Research is holding a workshop on ''Opportunities in Big Data'' and its implications for the economics profession.
Big Data is already transforming the study of how social networks function. In the 1960s, Stanley Milgram of Harvard used packages as his research medium in a famous experiment in social connections. He sent packages to volunteers in the Midwest, instructing them to get the packages to strangers in Boston, but not directly; participants could mail a package only to someone they knew. The average number of times a package changed hands was remarkably few, about six. It was a classic demonstration of the ''small-world phenomenon,'' captured in the popular phrase ''six degrees of separation.''
Today, social-network research involves mining huge digital data sets of collective behavior online. Among the findings: people whom you know but don't communicate with often -- ''weak ties,'' in sociology -- are the best sources of tips about job openings. They travel in slightly different social worlds than close friends, so they see opportunities you and your best friends do not.
Researchers can see patterns of influence and peaks in communication on a subject -- by following trending hashtags on Twitter, for example. The online fishbowl is a window into the real-time behavior of huge numbers of people. ''I look for hot spots in the data, an outbreak of activity that I need to understand,'' says Jon Kleinberg, a professor at Cornell. ''It's something you can only do with Big Data.''
Big Data has its perils, to be sure. With huge data sets and fine-grained measurement, statisticians and computer scientists note, there is increased risk of ''false discoveries.'' The trouble with seeking a meaningful needle in massive haystacks of data, says Trevor Hastie, a statistics professor at Stanford, is that ''many bits of straw look like needles.''
Big Data also supplies more raw material for statistical shenanigans and biased fact-finding excursions. It offers a high-tech twist on an old trick: I know the facts, now let's find 'em. That is, says Rebecca Goldin, a mathematician at George Mason University, ''one of the most pernicious uses of data.''
Data is tamed and understood using computer and mathematical models. These models, like metaphors in literature, are explanatory simplifications. They are useful for understanding, but they have their limits. A model might spot a correlation and draw a statistical inference that is unfair or discriminatory, based on online searches, affecting the products, bank loans and health insurance a person is offered, privacy advocates warn.
Despite the caveats, there seems to be no turning back. Data is in the driver's seat. It's there, it's useful and it's valuable, even hip.
Veteran data analysts tell of friends who were long bored by discussions of their work but now are suddenly curious. ''Moneyball'' helped, they say, but things have gone way beyond that. ''The culture has changed,'' says Andrew Gelman, a statistician and political scientist at Columbia University. ''There is this idea that numbers and statistics are interesting and fun. It's cool now.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHAD HAGEN) (SR1)
 GRAPHIC: PLAY (DATA-DRIVEN) BALL! For decades, baseball pitchers have been judged by their now-quaint earned-run averages: (Source: Baseballprospectus.com) (SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); COINS & COINAGE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); BIG DATA (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); BASEBALL (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); SPORTS MARKETING (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



480 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: If You Don't File, Beware the Ghost Return

BYLINE: By CHARLES DELAFUENTE

 BODY:
WHEN confronted by a letter from the Internal Revenue Service, some people look as though they've seen a ghost. And when they open certain letters, a few people do see a ghost -- or, more accurately, the ghost of a tax return.
When the I.R.S. detects that a person had reportable income but did not file a return -- even after much cajoling -- it steps in and does the job itself. Based on what it knows, the agency prepares what it calls a ''substitute for return'' -- a Form 1040. It lists income, calculates the tax due, adds interest and a penalty for failing to file, and sends the recalcitrant taxpayer a bill based on its efforts.
In one way, that may be a relief to procrastinators who just didn't get around to filing -- perhaps for years. But it often comes at a very high price.
Substitute returns are really no substitute for ones that taxpayers could have filed themselves. That's because the I.R.S. uses data from only the income side when it creates such a return, which means that it doesn't include all kinds of items that might offset that income, according to Julian Block, a tax lawyer in Larchmont, N.Y. 
The I.R.S. works from W-2 reports of wages paid, filed by employers, and reports of payments to self-employed people from companies that used their services. The agency also uses reports from financial institutions about interest and dividends paid and reports from brokers about assets sold. All these things are taxable income.
Sidney Kess, a certified public accountant and tax lawyer at Kostelanetz & Fink in New York, says the I.R.S. now has an easier task in detecting delinquent taxpayers because it receives electronic reports of far more kinds of income than it did several years ago.
What the I.R.S. does not consider, Mr. Block and Mr. Kess said, are offsetting amounts like exemptions for a brood of six children or deductions for mortgage interest or a big charitable contribution or thousands of dollars of dental work.
For self-employed people, in particular, there is often a big disparity between payments received and taxable income, because much of what they receive goes for supplies or salaries or other expenses. But the I.R.S. will know only the gross payment, and will plug that figure into its return.
It does not even know about the original cost of assets that were reported sold.
In other words, the I.R.S. does not include many of the deductions to which a nonfiler may be entitled. But this doesn't mean that the I.R.S. is being mean or vengeful or evil.
''In fairness to the I.R.S., they generally give the individual more than ample opportunity to get a return filed'' before stepping into the breach, said David Donnelly, a tax and business manager in the Melville, N.Y. office of Marcum L.L.P., a national accounting firm.
The I.R.S. is candid that it does not even look for deductions. In a fact sheet in what it calls the ''tax gap'' series on its Web site, the I.R.S. warns that a substitute return it prepares is a ''basic'' one that ''will not include any of your additional exemptions or expenses.'' It is, in Mr. Kess's words, ''the worst possible result for the taxpayer.''
Substitute-return calculations ''are always based on a standard deduction,'' Mr. Block said. ''The I.R.S. does it in a straightforward way. It treats you as a single person. It makes no difference that you could have filed a joint return.''
The substitute return is its move of last resort, said Anthony Burke, an I.R.S. spokesman, and is prepared only after sending the taxpayer several letters saying it has no record of a return for a given year. Mr. Block calls them ''We miss you'' and ''We're thinking of you'' letters. Typically, the return will not be prepared for at least a year, after the I.R.S.'s patience has worn out.
The I.R.S. investigates about a million ''nonfiler situations'' a year, Mr. Burke said. But it does not prepare a substitute return for everyone that it believes failed to file. People in the underground economy do not leave a trail that can contribute to such a return, tax experts said. If those people are caught, they may not get an official printout in the mail. A visit from someone who dangles handcuffs from a belt is more likely.
And the I.R.S. substitute is not used when a taxpayer has filed a return but the agency believes that he or she failed to report some income. It has other methods for resolving those issues -- often an audit, Mr. Burke said.
A taxpayer prompted to action by a substitute return can file the return that he or she should have filed in the first place, and ''the I.R.S. will adjust the taxpayer's account accordingly,'' Mr. Burke said.
That step, in which taxpayers can claim their exemptions and deductions, can sharply cut the amount due or even yield a refund.
Many nonfilers wouldn't owe large amounts if their returns were done properly. The I.R.S. fact sheet says its research shows that such failures ''could simply be due to procrastination.''
Mr. Donnelly recalled the case of a client whose sale of hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of stock was reported to the I.R.S. The agency sought tax on that amount on a substitute return, having no way to know that the client earned almost no profit on the sale. With an accurately prepared return, he said, she was due a small refund.
But even if a return calls for a refund, it won't be paid if the return is filed more than three years after it was due, because of a statute of limitations, Mr. Block said.
ONCE a ghost return appears in the mail, simply avoiding it isn't a viable option. The I.R.S. will send reminders, Mr. Kess said. If there is no response, it will start collection efforts, based on its calculations.
''The worst thing a taxpayer can do is not file a return and then ignore letters from the I.R.S.,'' Mr. Burke said.
But taxpayers sometimes do just that, provoked by ''fear, paralysis, and denial -- how could this be?'' as Mr. Donnelly put it.
Mr. Block says enforcement efforts against people who don't respond are quite straightforward. ''You don't need Eliot Ness to do this,'' he said. Typically, the agency will put a levy on an employed person's paychecks, taking a chunk from each one until the bill is paid. It may direct a company that pays a self-employed person to send the money directly to the government. It can also freeze bank accounts and put liens on homes.
Unpleasant though it may be, filing a tax return -- and paying the bill to begin with -- may prove much more appealing than those alternatives.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTO NGAI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); LAWYERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



481 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; VOYAGES; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Quests, Destinations and Quixotic Journeys

BYLINE: By CHARLES WILSON

 BODY:
A man who calls himself Winter had visited 10,789 Starbucks as of the end of last month. His goal is to visit every one in the world.
WHERE THE APPETITE LEADS
Julia Child's preserved kitchen helps draw 4.5 million visitors to the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History each year.
The ''Eat, Pray, Love'' tour by S.T.A. Travel allowed readers to follow the same itinerary as Elizabeth Gilbert in her 2006 memoir -- from Italy to India to Bali -- and to eat what she ate along the way. 
The grave of the chef Hector Boiardi -- whose Boyardee canned pasta products became a multibillion-dollar business -- attracts food historians to the All Souls Cemetery in Chardon, Ohio.
DISASTER TOURS
Gray Line Tours in New Orleans offers a three-hour Hurricane Katrina
tour, built around an ''eyewitness account of the events surrounding the most devastating natural -- and man-made -- disaster on American soil!''
For the first six months of last year, tourists could take guided expeditions into the former exclusion zone near the Chernobyl
nuclear power plant organized by the Ukranian Ministry of Emergencies.
Roughly 10,000 people a day visit the new memorial at
Ground Zero
in Manhattan, which opened on Sept. 12, 2011. This year, the site could average more visitors a day than either the Statue of Liberty or the Empire State Building.
Benka Pulko of Slovenia took a 111,856-mile
solo motorcycle journey from 1997 to 2002, through seven continents and 75 countries.
The annual Run for the Wall takes hundreds of veterans and their supporters on motorbikes from California to Maya Lin's Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington.
Jean Beliveau spent 11 years walking (2000-2011) with a stroller through six continents and 64 countries.
ARTISTIC EXPLORATIONS
A 2011 exhibit of Pablo Picasso's works at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts generated nearly $29 million in economic activity for the state.
One study estimated the impact of the Louvre -- the world's most visited museum -- on the French economy to be between $870 million and $1.4 billion in a single year.
More than a million people saw Michelangelo's David in 2009, paying more than $7 million for tickets at the Accademia Gallery in Florence.
The English adventurer Ranulph Fiennes completed seven marathons on seven continents in seven days in the fall of 2003 -- four and a half months after heart bypass surgery.
Runners from around the country pay vigil each year at Pre's Rock, where the gifted athlete Steve Prefontaine -- who set more than a dozen U.S. track records -- died in a car accident at age 24.
climb every mountain
In December 2011, 15-year-old Jordan Romero became the youngest person to climb the highest peak on all seven continents, ascending Mount Everest at age 13.
In 2010, Japan's Takao Arayama became the oldest person to climb the highest peak on all seven continents. He was 74.
LITERARY PILGRIMAGES (by number of annual visitors)
Walden Pond,
Massachusetts:
650,000
Jane Austen's house, Chawton, England:
39,000
The Bronte Parsonage Museum,Haworth, england:
75,000
The Stieg Larsson Millennium Tour, Stockholm:
10,000
Doune Castle, Scotland, a main location for filming ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'':
34,000
SEEKING THE DIVINE
Nearly 40 percent of the 2.8 million tourists to Israel in 2010 cited a religious pilgrimage as the main purpose of their visit. Here are some less familiar religious destinations:
The tomb of Jesus Christ in Shingo, Japan. Local legend has it that Jesus escaped crucifixion (his brother Isukiri took his place on the cross), moved to Japan and married a local woman. When he died, at 106, he was buried here.
The tomb of Jesus Christ in Kashmir. A local legend contends that Jesus survived the crucifixion, traveled to India, assumed the name Yuz Asaf, married, fathered several children and died at 120.
The Temple of Rats in Deshnoke, India. At this Hindu shrine, 20,000 rats are worshiped as reincarnated spirits of humans. Sighting a rare white one is considered auspicious.
The L. Ron Hubbard House in Phoenix. In this house, the founder of the Church of Scientology wrote the first books of a new religion. In 2005, the house was restored and opened as a heritage site.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY DAVID SPARSHOTT) (MM46
MM47)
CHARTS (MM46
MM47) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); VETERANS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); HURRICANES (68%); MARATHONS (68%); RUNNING (68%); EYEWITNESSES (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); VIETNAM WAR (63%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (60%); POWER PLANTS (51%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (51%)

COMPANY: GRAY LINE TOURS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (56%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (90%); SLOVENIA (79%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



482 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; VOYAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: A Special Issue

 BODY:
Modern-day pilgrims may not exhibit all the fervor of their religious-minded predecessors, but they still seek transformative experiences. In this, our second annual Voyages Issue, we accompany John Jeremiah Sullivan as he returns to the Ireland he knew as a student, just before the country's economic boom, to find in the newly empty spaces of a post-bust country a metaphor for Irish loss. Next, we follow Sam Anderson as he traces Dickens's footsteps, in the towns where he grew up and set his novels and in the theme park erected outside London in his name, an amusement manufactured for flush times rendered strangely Dickensian by circumstance. In Istanbul, Suzy Hansen maps the city's flourishing art scene and its fragile cosmopolitanism. Charles Wilson reminds us that the reasons we travel are often idiosyncratic, whether we're running seven marathons on seven continents or paying a visit to Jesus' tomb in Japan. And finally, the most transporting journeys are frequently those closest to home. Mitch Epstein's photographs of New York's landmark trees are, as Michael Kimmelman tells us, a kind of ''heaven.'' 
In This Issue:
My Debt to Ireland, by John Jeremiah Sullivan, with audio and photographs by Kenneth O Halloran
The World of Charles Dickens, Complete With Pizza Hut, by Sam Anderson
The Istanbul Art-Boom Bubble, by Suzy Hansen
How to See a Tree, photographs by Mitch Epstein, text by Michael Kimmelman
You Were There, photographs from our readers

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%)

COMPANY: PIZZA HUT INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRELAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



483 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: India Defends Oil Purchases From Iran

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Ranjan Mathai, the Indian foreign secretary, made the rounds in Washington last week, describing India's relationship with the United States as one of growing comfort, depth and candor, if not perfect harmony. On that last point he could have been talking about the recent frictions between the two countries over Iran.
India's determination to continue buying Iranian oil, despite sanctions and growing political pressure from the United States and Europe, has frustrated officials in Washington at a time when the forward momentum in the United States-India relationship has slowed, with differences over issues including civil nuclear cooperation, trade protectionism and military sales. 
The situation was exacerbated last week by news reports that India had become Iran's top oil customer, while an Indian official announced plans to send a trade delegation to Tehran. In New Delhi, diplomats and analysts say India's purchasing of Iranian oil is a matter of economic necessity, given its dependence on imported oil. Some say the purchases also represent diplomatic hedging in a region bracing for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan by 2014, or possibly sooner.
Indeed, many Indian officials, even those supportive of a stronger partnership with the United States, caution against turning issues like Iran into diplomatic litmus tests, considering the complexities of a neighborhood in which India represents a bulwark of stability, democracy and economic opportunity compared with Pakistan, Afghanistan and other countries.
''This can't be a test of our friendship,'' said Lalit Mansingh, a former Indian ambassador to the United States. ''Washington must realize that we are in a neighborhood where Iran is a factor.''
India's most immediate concern is fueling its economy, which has slowed in the past year. India buys about 12 percent of its crude oil from Iran, and many Indian refineries have been built to run solely on Iranian crude, meaning they would have to be retrofitted in order to process oil from other countries.
''To shift is not something that can be done very easily,'' said one senior Indian official, who would speak only on the condition of anonymity given the delicacy of the situation. The official added: ''Where would we get that refining capacity? Who would be our new suppliers?''
Even so, India has tried for several years to reduce its dependence on Iranian crude oil, partly because of the new sanctions by the Obama administration punishing any banks that do business with Iran. To work around these sanctions, Indian oil companies have made payments to Iran through a bank in Turkey that fell outside the American restrictions.
However, Indian officials are preparing for the likelihood that the Turkish avenue may soon be closed. The senior Indian official confirmed recent reports that India and Iran had agreed on a deal in which Indian companies would pay for 45 percent of their imports in Indian rupees -- thus avoiding the need to pay in dollars -- and might even settle the remainder of the debts through barter.
Last month, Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and leader of the India Caucus in Congress, met with several government ministers in New Delhi. ''The issue came up,'' Mr. Warner said of Iran in an interview last month. ''The Indians raised the concern that this has immediate economic impact upon them. We acknowledged that this was a blunt instrument, sanctions, but that the status quo in Iran was not working.''
Like the United States, India is alarmed at the possibility of Iran's developing nuclear weapons, and it has called on Iran to fulfill its obligations as a nonnuclear weapon state under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Indian diplomats, though, also worry about the economic impact of greater instability in Iran and the Persian Gulf region; they say more than six million Indians work in the gulf, sending home roughly $40 billion a year in remittances.
Iran is also a factor in the uncertain endgame in Afghanistan. K. C. Singh, a former Indian ambassador in Tehran, said India and Iran cooperated to support the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance before the fall of the Taliban in 2001. But that relationship cooled as American troops settled in Afghanistan, and India and the United States moved closer together. Now, though, Mr. Singh said India was ''scampering to recover'' its relationship with Iran as a hedge to prepare for an uncertain future in Afghanistan.
''They are attempting to do it now out of some serious concerns about what may happen after 2014, or earlier,'' Mr. Singh said.
Even so, India's current leaders remain committed to ever-strengthening ties with the United States. In a speech on Monday in Washington, Mr. Mathai spoke of the great potential of the two nations' partnership, if also the complexities embedded into it.
''Given our different circumstances, history, location and levels of development, we will occasionally have differing perspectives and policies,'' he said, according to a transcript of his speech. ''But this can be a source of great value and strength.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: India is resisting American pressure on Iran, saying it needs the country's oil to support its boom in areas like Mumbai, above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANISH SIDDIQUI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); ARMS TRADE (75%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); ARMED FORCES (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (91%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); TURKEY (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); DENMARK (79%); IRAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



484 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CAREER COUCH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Out of Work, But Staying A Strong Candidate

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
Q. You have been out of work for a long time and believe that potential employers are holding that against you. Even though many people lost jobs during the recession for reasons unrelated to performance, you fear that your long-term unemployment is sometimes equated with desperation and a lack of competency. What can you do about this?
A. To change perceptions about your employment status, start with the way you network. When you have been out of work for a while, people in your network may feel guilty because they are employed and you are not, says Lavie Margolin, a career coach in New York City and author of ''Lion Cub Job Search.'' You don't want them to feel sorry for you or to see you as defeated, so make sure you have something to offer them, whether it's sharing an article in a trade magazine, talking about an industry blog or mentioning a professional opportunity they may not know about, he says. 
It's also important to keep up with what's happening in your industry, so that when you do meet with others it's clear that your knowledge is current, says Laurence Shatkin, a career expert and author of ''2011 Career Plan.'' Maintain your memberships in relevant industry associations and consider volunteering on association committees. If possible, become involved in a communications role in a professional association. ''It could be working on the newsletter or any task where people in the industry see your name,'' Mr. Shatkin says. ''The fact that you're active in the association shows you are still active in your industry.''
Q. What can you do to minimize the impact of unemployment on your professional stature?
A. Keep your professional certifications, credentials and licenses up to date and involve yourself in activities that use your professional skills. Take temporary or part-time work in your industry if possible, or do unpaid volunteer work for nonprofits or charitable organizations that allow you to flex your professional muscles, Mr. Margolin says.
Start your own consulting firm, suggests Julie Redfield, a talent management expert in the New York office of the PA Consulting Group. ''Setting up a company -- the Web site, the business license -- can cost very little,'' she says.
''Use your network and get at least one or two small jobs that you can talk about on interviews and put on your resume.''
Q.Should you reorganize your resume to make it less obvious that you've been out of work for a while?
A. No matter how you organize it, prospective employers will see the gap in your employment. You can put the emphasis elsewhere, however. Mr. Margolin suggests customizing resumes for specific positions by writing four or five sentences at the top summing up your skills and experience related to that opportunity.
Change the ''work experience'' section to ''experience'' and write about volunteer and paid work, making clear which work was unpaid but using the same language for both, says Elena Bajic, founder and C.E.O. of Ivy Exec, a recruitment service in New York. For volunteer as well as paid work, she says, ''quantify your results, talk about the strategies used to get there and about how you contributed to the growth and success of the organization.''
Q.During interviews, how do you handle the topic of your prolonged unemployment?
A. It's important to be straightforward and to explain what happened, whether it was a layoff or that your previous job wasn't a good fit anymore, Ms. Redfield says. You want to put it in the best light possible while being honest; networks and industries are small, she says, and if you fudge the truth, you will most likely be caught.
Some people who have been out of work for a while have a tendency during interviews to broaden career goals, in an attempt to fit a wide range of positions, Ms. Bajic says. If you were a marketing manager at a midsize company, for example, you may think you should start by saying you want to work in any marketing capacity at any size company. But ''that indicates someone who doesn't know what they want,'' she says.
Employers may fear that such a person will take a job that's not a good fit and leave as soon as something more appropriate comes along. It's better to be more specific, because employers aren't looking for just any match, Ms. Bajic says. ''They are looking for the right one.''
E-mail: ccouch@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LISA HANEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); WRITERS (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); LICENSES & PERMITS (62%); CHARITIES (61%)

COMPANY: PA CONSULTING GROUP LTD (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



485 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
SYRIAN GENERAL KILLED
IN COUNTRY'S CAPITAL
Three gunmen ambushed a military general on a residential street in Damascus, the Syrian government reported. The assassination of a government stalwart was the first of its kind in the Syrian capital and another step away from the nonviolent roots of the antigovernment protests. Page 12
MALDIVES PARTY REJECTS UNITY 
The political turmoil continued in the Maldives as the party of the former president, who says he was ousted this week in a quiet coup, refused to consider joining the government of the new president. Page 12
INDIA OFFICIAL VISITS U.S.
Ranjan Mathai, the Indian foreign secretary, made the rounds in Washington last week, describing India's relationship with the United States as one of growing comfort, depth and candor, if not perfect harmony. Page 11
ARRESTS IN TABLOID INQUIRY
British authorities arrested eight people , including five employees of Rupert Murdoch's tabloid The Sun, as part of an investigation into bribery of public officials by journalists, Scotland Yard and the newspaper's parent company said. Page 6
Sunday Business
THE DEAL IS DONE
BUT HOLD THE APPLAUSE
The settlement of questionable mortgage and foreclosure practices by major American banks last week is unlikely to restore trust or revive the housing market, Gretchen Morgenson writes. Page 1
FACEBOOK AND ITS USERS
The symbiotic relationship between Facebook and its users came into sharp focus when the company filed for its initial public offering, revealing just how valuable that codependency is. Bits. Page 3
RETIREMENT'S MAGIC NUMBER
However stout tax defenses may be, there is almost no avoiding the levy against retirement plans for the year participants reach 70 1/2, when they must start withdrawing cash from I.R.A.'s and 401(k) plans and paying ordinary income tax on it, Robert Hershey writes. Page 14
Automobiles
AN UPGRADE FROM DODGE
WITH NO ADDITIONAL CHARGE
In the midst of the creeping price inflation that seems to afflict all cars, the Dodge Charger stands out as a notable bargain, the lone rear-wheel-drive sedan (along with its cousin, the Chrysler 300) that's priced comfortably below $30,000. Sports, Page 11
Sports
THE WEIGHT OF MEMORY
IS STIRRING IN ZAMBIA
Whichever country captures the Africa Cup of Nations title Sunday in Libreville, Gabon, the human story will be remarkable. If Zambia, the tournament outsider, wins the final, it will feel like something supernatural. On Soccer. Page 2
DOPING AND LEGAL BATTLES
That doping is a problem in cycling and other sports is hardly a shocking revelation anymore. But the Alberto Contador case and a similar decision days later against the German rider Jan Ullrich illustrate a wider problem. Page 3
Obituaries
W. GUNTHER PLAUT, 99
A rabbi, his vast, scholarly and ardently contemporary edition of the Torah has helped define Reform Judaism in 20th-century North America. He also edited a widely used version of the Torah that urged Jews to listen for God's voice in that of the people who wrote the text. Page 27
ISTVAN CSURKA, 77
A leading Hungarian playwright and politician, his hypernationalistic, anti-Semitic views antagonized Communists when they ruled the country, and all manner of people afterward. Page 27
Sunday Business
THE DEAL IS DONE
BUT HOLD THE APPLAUSE
The settlement of questionable mortgage and foreclosure practices by major American banks last week is unlikely to restore trust or revive the housing market, Gretchen Morgenson writes. Page 1
FACEBOOK AND ITS USERS
The symbiotic relationship between Facebook and its users came into sharp focus when the company filed for its initial public offering, revealing just how valuable that codependency is. Bits. Page 3
RETIREMENT'S MAGIC NUMBER
However stout tax defenses may be, there is almost no avoiding the levy against retirement plans for the year participants reach 70 1/2, when they must start withdrawing cash from I.R.A.'s and 401(k) plans and paying ordinary income tax on it, Robert Hershey writes. Page 14
Automobiles
AN UPGRADE FROM DODGE
WITH NO ADDITIONAL CHARGE
In the midst of the creeping price inflation that seems to afflict all cars, the Dodge Charger stands out as a notable bargain, the lone rear-wheel-drive sedan (along with its cousin, the Chrysler 300) that's priced comfortably below $30,000. Sports, Page 11
Arts & Leisure
RESTORING A GATEWAY
TO ITS FORMER DIGNITY
It is time, Michael Kimmelman writes, to address the calamity that is Pennsylvania Station. Nearly half a century has passed since its demolition in 1963, and plans to restore its former greatness do not go nearly far enough. Page 1
Magazine
WHERE HOPE AND HISTORY
DO NOT RHYME
For the writer John Jeremiah Sullivan, the greenness of Ireland does not encode a pastoral past, much less a timeless vale where wee folk peek from the corners. Page 26
Book Review
FIGHTING FOR SCRAPS,
LIFE IN ONE OF INDIA'S SLUMS
Katherine Boo's first book, ''Behind the Beautiful Forevers,'' is a nonfiction account of a few months in the life of a young garbage trader and his friends and family in the Annawadi slum in Mumbai, India. Page 1
Style
THE EDITOR OF MARIE CLAIRE
GRABS A BIT OF THE SPOTLIGHT
In the last 18 months, Joanna Coles, the British-born editor of Marie Claire magazine, seems to have encroached Zelig-like on fashion's landscape, popping up wherever the style tribes convene. Yet, as she tells it, that was never her plan. Page 1
Editorial
UNANSWERED QUESTIONS AND LITTLE RELIEF
The $26 billion foreclosure settlement between the big banks and federal and state officials could be a step in the right direction. But a follow-up investigation is needed. Sunday Review, Page 10
WHAT HOMEOWNERS NEED
Foreclosure relief should also include mortgages owned by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which hold roughly 30 million mortgage loans. Sunday Review, Page 10
STILL SECRET AFTER 30 YEARS?
An internal C.I.A. report on how the intelligence community decided that ''yellow rain'' was a chemical weapon should be made public. Sunday Review, Page 1
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
In their dispute with the president, Catholic bishops ignore the link between contraceptives and poverty. Sunday Review, Page 11
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
The current field of Republican presidential candidates is out of date. The party has lost its conservative roots. Sunday Review, Page 11
FRANK BRUNI
What impedes Mitt Romney's candidacy more than anything else is an excitement deficit. Sunday Review, Page 3
ROSS DOUTHAT
Charles Murray's much-discussed book ''Coming Apart'' describes America's social crisis but doesn't offer practical solutions. Sunday Review, Page 11
0

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); JOURNALISM (78%); COUPS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TOURNAMENTS (74%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); ARRESTS (73%); SCANDALS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); US 401K PLANS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); WRITERS (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); FORECLOSURE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); SEDANS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); RELIGION (62%); SOCCER (60%); CYCLING (60%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (60%); BRIBERY (53%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%) SYRIA (95%); MALDIVES (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); GABON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



486 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2892 words

HEADLINE: A Newspaper, and a Legacy, Reordered

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
ON a Sunday in early December, Marcus Brauchli, the executive editor of The Washington Post, summoned some of the newspaper's most celebrated journalists to a lunch at his home, a red brick arts-and-crafts style in the suburb of Bethesda, Md.
He asked his guests, who included the Pulitzer Prize winners Bob Woodward, Dana Priest, David Maraniss and Rick Atkinson, along with Dan Balz, the paper's chief correspondent, and Robert G. Kaiser, a senior writer and editor who has been with the paper since 1963, to help him -- and The Post.
He wanted to know how they thought The Post was covering the 2012 election and what might be improved. The paper, they told him, needed to strike a better balance between the ferocious 24/7 news cycle and more ambitious longer-term projects. Newsroom morale was suffering and needed his attention.
The meeting was an unusual gesture from Mr. Brauchli. In the nearly three and a half years since he became the first outsider to run the paper in seven decades, he has often fought perceptions that he is inattentive to concerns of his staff members. 
But Mr. Brauchli is acutely aware of the tension that lies at the heart of his mission -- a tension being faced not just by newspapers but by media companies in music, film, books, magazines and television. He is charged with maintaining the standards and legacy of a great institution -- in this case, the newspaper of Katharine Graham, Ben Bradlee and Mr. Woodward and Carl Bernstein -- while confronting the harsh reality that in the digital age, the grandeur is gone.
Mr. Brauchli refuses to be held hostage to the past. ''There are a lot of nostalgia-drenched people in the journalism field who look back at what newspapers were and have a fairly static view of what they should be,'' he said in an interview. ''Just because The Washington Post used to be a certain way doesn't mean The Washington Post has to be that way in the future.''
The Post faces the same problems as other daily newspapers, whose revenues have sunk as the Web and the tough economy have sapped advertising. But in some ways, its situation is even more daunting. Unlike most other papers with national aspirations, The Post serves a purely local print market, one that for decades had limited competition, and it has depended on local advertisers and subscribers who have since fled to the Web.
Though company managers say privately that The Post is modestly profitable, its newspaper division, which also includes a group of community papers and The Herald of Everett, Wash., reported an operating loss of nearly $26 million through the first three quarters of last year.
Compounding its troubles, The Post's safety net ripped a giant hole. For decades, The Post could rely on Kaplan -- the money-minting, for-profit college and test-preparation business that the company bought in 1984. But Kaplan has been squeezed under the weight of new federal rules that place greater limits on how for-profit colleges can recruit and enroll low-income students.
Once by far the largest and fastest-growing business in the Washington Post Company, Kaplan is now a laggard. Education accounts for less operating income than two divisions that were historically less crucial to its profits, cable and broadcast television, according to the latest financial reports.
That has left the newspaper and the company's other businesses exposed. The newsroom, once with more than 1,000 employees, now stands at less than 640 people, depleted by buyouts and staff defections. The newspaper's Style section, once one of the most coveted assignments in American journalism, has shrunk from nearly 100 people to a quarter of that size. Bureaus in New York, Los Angeles and Chicago are gone. There were so many Friday afternoon cake-cutting send-offs for departing employees last summer that editors had to coordinate them so they didn't overlap.
''The survival of the institution is not guaranteed,'' Mr. Kaiser said in an interview before the December lunch. Over the course of his five-decade career with The Post, he has been a summer intern, a metro reporter, a foreign correspondent and the No. 2 to Len Downie, Mr. Brauchli's predecessor.
''When I was managing editor of The Washington Post, everything we did was better than anyone in the business,'' he said. ''We had the best weather, the best comics, the best news report, the fullest news report. Today, there's a competitor who does every element of what we do, and many of them do it better. We've lost our edge in some very profound and fundamental ways.''
Last week, the paper announced a fresh round of voluntary buyouts, an effort to cut 20 more positions as managers reckoned once again with the painful reality that The Post was not making enough money to support the staff it employed.
Mr. Brauchli has reacted to the upheaval by overseeing one of the most sweeping and closely watched reorientations of any newsroom in the country. The editors now stress online metrics and freely borrow from the playbooks of more nimble online competitors like Politico and The Huffington Post.
The outcome of their efforts could offer a high-profile case study on how a company can foster an entrepreneurial, digital culture while remaining true to its heritage. But the transformation has been far from easy. There have been tensions in the newsroom and visible fissures between Mr. Brauchli and his own publisher.
The Post has expanded its Web presence by trying to meld what was great about the old Post with new traffic-baiting tricks of online start-ups -- creating new, high-minded blogs like Ezra Klein's ''Wonkblog,'' along with ''Celebritology 2.0'' where news about the Kardashian sisters and Justin Bieber can be found. That has many inside the paper starting to wonder if online growth has come at too high a cost.
UNTIL just two years ago, the Washington Post Company was considerably behind many of its competitors in innovating on the Web. Its digital and print operations were even separated by a state line. The Web site's offices were across the Potomac River in Virginia and run by a different set of managers.
That changed after Mr. Brauchli and Katharine Weymouth, the Post's publisher, integrated the two sides in the first half of 2009. Journalists whose primary responsibilities are to the Web site now work next to reporters in The Post's headquarters on 15th Street in downtown Washington. Under the direction of Raju Narisetti, one of two managing editors brought in by Mr. Brauchli, the Post newsroom was reoriented to think about one primary goal: bringing the most visitors as possible to Washingtonpost.com.
Mr. Narisetti, who left the paper last month for a new job at The Wall Street Journal, where both he and Mr. Brauchli had worked before The Post, brought large flat-screen monitors into the newsroom that projected in real time what the most popular stories were online. He installed a new internal publishing system that required reporters to identify Google-friendly key words and flag them before their stories could be edited.
There are 35 different daily reports that track traffic to different parts of the Web site. Editors receive a midday performance alert, telling them whether the site is on track to meet its traffic goals for the day. If it appears that they might miss their goal, editors will order up fresher content.
''I've been at lunch, opened up that e-mail and called people and said: 'Looks like we're not delivering enough content. What can we put up?' '' Mr. Narisetti said in an interview before his departure.
Top editors have embraced the view that studying traffic patterns can be a useful way to determine where to focus the paper's resources.
''Let's say you're looking at your local staff, and because of pressures you need to move people. So you're telling the local editor, here is the data, here are the business needs of our audience,'' he said. ''And in some cases people have moved an editor into a reporting role, or people have said we are reorganizing these beats so we don't need four people covering this system. We can have three.''
Traffic isn't the only factor that editors examine when determining whether to kill or expand a blog. They can look at where online visitors are when they read the site. And if their computers are registered with a government suffix -- .gov, .mil, .senate or .house -- editors know they are reaching the readers they want. ''That's our influential audience,'' Mr. Narisetti said. ''If a blog is over all not doing that great but has a higher percentage of those, we say don't worry about it.''
Post employees are regularly schooled in the lingo of Web traffic. In memos to the staff, Mr. Brauchli is as likely to cite terms like page views, unique visitors and social media referrals as he is to laud a journalistic achievement. At the beginning of the month, he started an e-mail to the newsroom this way: ''January was an excellent month for us digitally. We surpassed all our previous records. We beat our monthly records for page views by 9 percent, for visits by 14 percent and for unique visitors by 12 percent.''
He added: ''Growing everywhere is a sign that we are adapting effectively to what our readers want.'' By one important measure, The Post's efforts are paying off. Recently, it has averaged 19.6 million unique visitors a month, according to comScore, making it the second-most-visited American newspaper Web site, behind that of The New York Times.
Mr. Narisetti and Mr. Brauchli were close partners in the digital reinvention of the newsroom, but their relationship became tense at times toward the end. In one spat witnessed by reporters in December, Mr. Brauchli confronted Mr. Narisetti in the newsroom over an erroneous blog post that said Mitt Romney was using language from the Ku Klux Klan in his speeches. The item forced the paper to issue an uncharacteristically self-flagellating correction citing ''multiple, serious factual errors that undermine its premise.''
In an interview before his departure, Mr. Narisetti was asked if he believed that the newsroom would be the same size at the end of this year. ''One thing no editor in any newsroom in this country can avoid saying is that it will be smaller,'' he said, adding that if his bosses asked him how many people he needed to put out the paper, ''the chances are we wouldn't say 630 people.''
Despite the emphasis on digital delivery, The Post has continued to thrive by more conventional measures. Mr. Brauchli points to the journalistic distinctions under his watch, including five Pulitzer Prizes, and articles like an investigation into the insurance giant AIG and its role in the economic collapse of 2008.
''The Washington Post doesn't need to cover everything,'' he said. ''But what it does cover it will cover well. I think the staff of any newsroom today surely understands that we are in a fast-changing industry, facing constant competitive pressure, significant economic challenges and great opportunities to rethink how we cover things.''
Some who were around when The Post's mission was to cover everything said they understood how hard Mr. Brauchli's job was, and they think he did not always get the credit he deserved.
''Whatever you're going to say about the paper and where it is, it's a time of convulsion for all newspapers,'' Mr. Woodward said. ''But you have an absolute first-class news person in charge who really does have the clarity, zeal and drive of Bradlee.''
NO one bears the weight of The Post's legacy more than Katharine Weymouth, the paper's 45-year-old publisher and the fifth member of her family to hold that title. Her grandmother was the beloved Post matriarch, Katharine Graham. Her uncle is Donald E. Graham, the former publisher and now chief executive of the Post Company. It is a testament to Mr. Graham's standing among his employees that despite the difficult times, few hold him in anything but the highest esteem.
Mr. Graham, who graduated from Harvard and was drafted into the Vietnam War, joined the Washington police department before taking a job as a Post reporter. Ms. Weymouth, who grew up on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, attended the Brearley School and then Harvard, had an indirect path to The Post of a different sort. After graduating from the Stanford Law School, she moved to Washington to work as a corporate lawyer.
In 1996, she joined The Post as an assistant counsel and was named publisher in February 2008, right as the Great Recession was getting under way. In one of her first major decisions, she surprised the newsroom by reaching outside the organization for Mr. Brauchli, who had accepted a large payout and resigned from his previous job, running The Wall Street Journal under its new owner, Rupert Murdoch.
In Mr. Brauchli, she saw the kind of leader who could be a strong partner in shaping the company's business strategy for the next generation. ''I think he came in with his eyes wide open,'' she said in an interview.
Mr. Brauchli was also willing to take on the undesirable task of paring down the newsroom. ''It's a job that Ben Bradlee didn't have to do, and that Len Downie only had to do a little bit of,'' she said, referring to the paper's previous two executive editors.
Ms. Weymouth is a careful student of her family's history, even if she says legacy isn't something she spends a lot of time thinking about. ''I just can't think like that,'' she said.
Her tenure got off to a rocky start. In the summer of 2009, Ms. Weymouth had to apologize after it became public that The Post was planning to charge lobbyists and others for access to exclusive ''salons'' at her home. Seeking a new revenue stream, the company wanted to create a series of events featuring Post journalists that would attract sponsors. Though magazines host similar conferences all the time, it seemed particularly undignified for an institution as esteemed as The Post. And the blowback was fierce.
Though Mr. Brauchli always understood his job would entail how to put out a daily newspaper and run a 24/7 Web site with shrinking resources, some of his editors have noticed that his relationship with the publisher has cooled.
One veteran newsroom manager said Mr. Brauchli has described ''a constant fight'' with the publisher over making further cuts. In an act that went largely unmentioned at the paper, Mr. Brauchli refused to accept a bonus one year, this person added.
Though such a gesture, coming as it did when the paper was reducing staff significantly, may have helped lift morale and engender good will, Mr. Brauchli chose not to make his decision public. And when Ms. Weymouth wrote a year-end memo to the staff praising its accomplishments and thanking people by name, his name was curiously absent, leading many staff members to believe that she had snubbed him. In fact, said another person who had seen an original draft of the memo, Mr. Brauchli's name was mentioned in the first version but he asked that it be taken out. He left the misperceptions uncorrected.
Many at The Post are still trying to adjust to life under a new regime, one in which ''Donnie-grams,'' congratulatory notes from the chief executive, arrive in your in-box along with spreadsheets on the latest Web traffic metrics, and where the walk-around management style of Mr. Bradlee and Mr. Downie is gone. Employees often fault Ms. Weymouth and Mr. Brauchli for not circulating enough in the newsroom. By her own acknowledgment, Ms. Weymouth lacks ease and rapport with the newsroom. Her uncle Don, she said, ''has an amazing knack for names that unfortunately I don't share.''
On election night in 2008, she brought her young daughter into the newsroom to witness Post journalists putting together the paper that would report on President Obama's historic election. Reporters and editors, most of whom rarely saw their publisher in the newsroom, were taken aback but impressed with what that said about Ms. Weymouth's attachment to the paper.
''I hope they see me as a champion of the news. I do my best,'' she said. She added that she didn't visit the newsroom ''nearly as much as I'd like,'' saying: ''You get stuck in meetings, you're traveling. I'd like to get down there a lot more.''
Mr. Brauchli's own response to the criticism was similar: ''The journalism is where I want to spend my time, and the journalism is where my passion is. But there are a lot of issues that require my attention.''
THIS summer, Reuters tried to poach Mr. Balz, one of the country's most prominent political reporters. Mr. Brauchli and the national editor, Kevin Merida, were loath to see him go -- not just because they were wary of more brain drain but also because of the potential damage to newsroom morale from the defection of such a revered and well-liked colleague.
They flew a young political reporter, Philip Rucker, to Michigan, where Mr. Balz was on vacation and considering the Reuters offer. Mr. Rucker appeared on Mr. Balz's doorstep carrying a basket with cheese and wine and a book they had made called ''Campaign Crescendos: The Election-Night Writings of Dan Balz.'' Editors and reporters had signed it, urging him to stay.
He declined the Reuters job.
''To me, The Post was and is a great newspaper,'' Mr. Balz said. ''Is it a different place today than it was? Sure. But in the end it's still a great place to do great journalism.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(BU1)
Marcus Brauchli, top right, The Washington Post's executive editor, has overseen sweeping change in the newsroom, where editors now often emphasize things like online metrics. Staff members say there has been tension between Mr. Brauchli and Katharine Weymouth, top left, the publisher. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER GRAYLOCK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES
KEYUR KHAMAR/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Ben Bradlee, left, with Katharine Graham in 1971, after winning a Supreme Court ruling allowing continued publication of the Pentagon Papers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL)(BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (61%); COMPANY LOSSES (60%); SUPREME COURTS (59%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (85%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



487 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Investing in Mom Power

BYLINE: By MEGAN GARDNER. 
As told to Elizabeth Olson.

 BODY:
I WAS born in what is now called the Homestead Air Reserve Base, outside Miami, while my father was serving in the Army. My parents decided to return to their home state of North Dakota when I was a toddler. Their families were ranchers and farmers near Dickinson, in the southwest part of the state. After a couple of years helping his family on its grain farm, my father went into construction, becoming the business manager of a local company.
My parents had three more children, two girls and a boy. My mother worked as an educator all her life, teaching home economics and Head Start and, most recently, administering a university distance learning program for adults. I graduated from high school in 1994 and received a scholarship to Smith College in Massachusetts. 
During summers and other vacations, I did administrative work for the construction company and worked at the local Hardee's restaurant. In the summer of 1996 -- after a lot of discussion -- my father let me join one of his construction crews building a road in northern Montana. I lived in a former one-room schoolhouse nearby and earned a handsome sum operating a pneumatic hammer, a type of jackhammer.
I saved the money to pay for my junior year abroad in Spain. The summer before my senior year, I interned at a New York law firm, and that convinced me that I should get some financial experience by working on Wall Street.
When I graduated in 1998 with a history degree, I was hired by Deutsche Bank as an analyst in its oil and gas group. I also worked on some telecom deals in Latin America, where my Spanish came in handy. After a year, I left for SoundView Technology, a technology-focused investment firm.
Four years later, I took some time off and backpacked in Central America, Southeast Asia and then on to Japan and Europe. In the fall of 2004, I entered Harvard's M.B.A. program. That's where I met my husband, Mike Forbes, who is now in the olive oil business.
When I graduated in 2006, I was accepted into Harvard's leadership fellow program and assigned to Nicaragua. While I lived in Managua, I advised the government on attracting private outside investment. After my fellowship, I moved to Minneapolis to join Mike, who was working for General Mills.
We married at the end of 2007, and I found a job at Ameriprise Financial, working in strategy and business development. But I always wanted to be an entrepreneur, so Mike and I decided to enter a Harvard Business School competition for alumni business ideas. We didn't win, but I was already at work on a new idea focused on moms. We used ''plum'' in the name because it is a royal color, then added ''district'' to indicate that we were promoting local shopping districts.
One of our angel investors offered us office space in San Francisco, so I moved there and started the company in March 2010, and Mike moved later that year.
So far, Plum District is available in 27 cities around the country, and we have over a million customers. We have more than 300 independent contractors, most of whom are local mothers who work on commission. They check with local merchants and organizations to arrange discount family tickets to a sports event, for example, or vouchers for a kid-friendly restaurant. The mothers are paid a percentage of the revenue we receive when our consumers buy those offers on our Web site.
In short, we are appealing to our customers with offers vetted by local moms. The offers are for products and services for women, their children and their families. Our motto is to ''Make Mom's Day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MEGAN GARDNER: Chief executive of Plum District, a commerce site for mothers. AGE: 35 RECENT VACATION: Cambodia INFLUENTIAL BOOK: ''The Dressmaker of Khair Khana'' by Gayle Tzemach Lemmon (PHOTOGRAPH BY BROOKE BRYAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); DISTANCE LEARNING (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); GRAIN FARMING (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (62%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); GENERAL MILLS INC (51%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (62%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); GIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (62%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (51%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (51%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (51%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) NICARAGUA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CAMBODIA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (77%); ASIA (77%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (67%); LATIN AMERICA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



488 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 733 words

PERSON: Patricia Stephens 

HEADLINE: Patricia Stephens Due, 72; Campaigned for Civil Rights

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Patricia Stephens Due, whose belief that, as she put it, ''ordinary people can do extraordinary things'' propelled her to leadership in the civil rights movement -- but at a price, including 49 days in a stark Florida jail -- died on Tuesday in Smyrna, Ga. She was 72.
The cause was thyroid cancer, her daughter Johnita Due said. She had moved to Smyrna, an Atlanta suburb, to be near her family after living in Miami. 
At 13, Patricia Stephens challenged Jim Crow orthodoxy by trying to use the ''whites only'' window at a Dairy Queen. As a college student, she led demonstrations to integrate lunch counters, theaters and swimming pools and was repeatedly arrested.
As a young mother, she pushed two children in a stroller while campaigning for the rights of poor people. As a veteran of integration and voting rights battles, she went on to fight for economic rights, once obstructing a garbage truck in support of striking workers. As an elder stateswoman of the movement, she wrote a memoir to honor ''unsung foot soldiers.''
She fought beside John D. Due Jr., a civil rights lawyer, whom she married in 1963. For their honeymoon, they rode the Freedom Train to Washington to hear the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. give his ''I Have a Dream'' speech.
Mrs. Due paid a price for this devotion. She wore large, dark glasses day and night because her eyes were damaged when a hissing tear gas canister hit her in the face. She took a decade to graduate from Florida A&M University because of suspensions for her activism.
Her F.B.I. file ran more than 400 pages. Her stepfather urged her to give up civil rights, to protect her and his own job. She was kicked and threatened with dogs, including a German shepherd whose police handlers gave it a racial slur for a name.
Mrs. Due's greatest prominence came after she and 10 other students were arrested for sitting at the ''whites only'' lunch counter at a Woolworth's store in Tallahassee, Fla., on Feb. 20, 1960. It was 19 days after four black students in Greensboro, N.C., had made civil rights history by doing the same thing.
Mrs. Due and seven others refused to pay $300 fines for violating laws they abhorred. Five served the full 49-day sentence.
As leader of the sit-in, Mrs. Due became a national figure. Jackie Robinson sent her a diary for her jail-time thoughts. James Baldwin, Harry Belafonte and Eleanor Roosevelt endorsed her efforts. Dr. King sent a telegram saying, ''Going to jail for a righteous cause is a badge of honor and a symbol of dignity.''
It was not easy behind bars. She and her sister, Priscilla Stephens Kruize, her compatriot in many battles, had to share a narrow bed. They suspected that a mentally disturbed woman was placed in the cell to unnerve them. Food was awful; nights were cold.
Thurgood Marshall, head of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, questioned whether it was all worth it, given the deplorable state of Southern jails. But the drama of righteous incarceration seized the nation's attention, a freed Mrs. Due went on a national fund-raising tour and the ''jail-in'' became a movement standard.
Patricia Gloria Stephens was born on Dec. 9, 1939, in Quincy, Fla., and was raised in Belle Glade, Fla. As high school students, she and Priscilla, who was 15 months older, started a petition to have the principal removed, The Miami Herald reported in 1990. Patricia said the two were ''always testing things.''
In 1959, she formed a local chapter of the Congress of Racial Equality. It was the beginning of life as ''a professional volunteer,'' in her daughter's words. She worked with youths, helped out in political campaigns and spoke on human rights issues. In the last year of her life, state, county and local governments in Florida honored her.
In addition to her husband of 49 years, her sister and her daughter, Mrs. Due is survived by two other daughters, Tananarive Due and Lydia Due Greisz; a brother, Walter Stephens; and five grandchildren.
In 2003, Mrs. Due and her daughter Tananarive, a novelist, wrote ''Freedom in the Family: A Mother-Daughter Memoir of the Fight for Civil Rights.'' The book discusses thorny issues like black people's ambivalence about the civil rights struggle in the movement's early days and the emotional turmoil of children whose parents are activists. It also contains many tales of courage.
''Stories live forever,'' Mrs. Due liked to say. ''Storytellers don't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patricia Stephens Due, center, in a protest at a segregated theater in 1963 in Tallahassee, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK NOEL, COURTESY OF THE STATE ARCHIVES OF FLORIDA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SENTENCING (77%); DOGS (77%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (74%); ARRESTS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); STRIKES (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (67%); THYROID CANCER (56%); CANCER (56%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (56%); STEPPARENTS (50%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%)

MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (90%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



489 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2580 words

HEADLINE: It's the Economy, Honey

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA
BETSEY STEVENSON and Justin Wolfers might sound like almost any upscale couple.
They have impressive degrees and serious careers and the social markers that go with them. They have one child, but there are two strollers, a Bugaboo and a Bob baby jogger, parked in the front hall of their stylish home here. Their daughter, Matilda, who is almost 2 1/2 , attends classes in art, music and soccer. She is not allowed to eat any meat or sugar, not even in birthday cake.
But when Ms. Stevenson, 40, and Mr. Wolfers, 39, start talking about say, diapers or nursing, the conversation takes an odd turn. Suddenly, words like ''inputs'' and ''outputs'' -- the economic kind -- creep in. Mention loading the dishwasher and he tosses out ''fungibility.'' The low cost of two big teddy bears they bought for Matilda gets Ms. Stevenson ruminating on productivity gains. 
If they don't quite sound like the rest of us, that's because these two Harvard Ph.D.'s form a sort of power couple in the world of the dismal science, or at least a certain corner of it. Faculty members at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and currently visiting fellows at Princeton, Ms. Stevenson and Mr. Wolfers have become the go-to pair on the economics of marriage, divorce and child-rearing. That they are themselves a couple -- unmarried, for tax reasons they regularly cite -- adds to the allure.
For years, they have enamored the news media with their eclectic brand of the economics of everyday life, in the ''Freakonomics'' vein. Their choice of topics tends to push people's buttons and to grab the attention even of those who might ignore the latest figures on nonfarm payrolls or industrial capacity utilization.
Their research shows that men have grown happier as women have become unhappier. (Why? They don't really know.) Are people in rich countries happier than people in poor countries? (Yes.) And contrary to popular belief, they show that the divorce rate in America has been falling, not rising, for decades. They cite a number of possible reasons, including more balanced expectations between men and women about how a marriage will actually work, as well as the fact that fewer people are marrying in the first place.
Economics pervades their personal lives. They sifted through unemployment statistics to find the optimal population of potential nannies for Matilda: 20-something teachers. If you're relatively affluent, as they are, they recommend outsourcing child care and domestic chores so you can spend your time on more leisure or economically worthwhile pursuits. That's what they do.
Yes, they say they disagree from time to time. Mr. Wolfers, an iPad fan, wants to get rid of their print books. Ms. Stevenson has read the research suggesting that children go further educationally if they grow up surrounded by books. So far, the books have stayed -- in custom-built shelves.
Another reason they stand out is that they have a remarkable ability to render economic concepts in simple terms. Mr. Wolfers once distilled a research paper by fellow economists on ''present value earnings losses associated with job displacement'' like this: Losing your job stinks. (He used a more colorful word.)
Both are active on Twitter, where Ms. Stevenson lobs playful comments on the gender imbalances of academic economics.
''I know it is a policy, rather than an economics conference, because there is a line for the women's toilet,'' she tweeted last November.
It also helps that they don't fit the stereotypes of tweedy academics. Mr. Wolfers, who is Australian, looks like a nerdy surfer and tends to pull his chin-length blond hair into a ponytail. Ms. Stevenson has an irresistible laugh and a stylish taste in clothes and shoes.
Their professional stature extends beyond their study of domestic life. Until last September, Ms. Stevenson was the chief economist at the Labor Department, and has written influential papers on the effect of Title IX, which guarantees women equal access to academic and athletic programs, on women's education and on future job success. Mr. Wolfers has been a co-author of papers on subjects as diverse as capital punishment and racial bias among N.B.A. referees. They are now writing an introductory economics textbook.
BUT it is their work on lovenomics, as it might be called, and their popularity with the news media, that have brought them attention outside the academy. Their modest celebrity has led to some sniping among their peers -- several would not publicly declare their criticism -- but their fans are effusive.
''They're terrific economists,'' said N. Gregory Mankiw, the Harvard economics professor who taught the couple during graduate school, adding that he saw no evidence that their public profile had ''affected the quality of their scientific work.'' (Professor Mankiw is a contributor to the Economic View column in Sunday Business.)
Economics has clearly been good to them. Their home in Philadelphia, in a historic building that once housed an African-American publishing house, features soaring ceilings and custom iron work. A glass-top Noguchi coffee table is in the living room, next to a white Jonathan Adler casting couch covered in a sheepskin throw from Costco. In the attic is a home gym with a treadmill, a boxing bag, a recumbent bicycle and a flat-screen television.
Matilda's nanny has a master's degree in education and draws an annual salary of $50,000. (She works Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.) The couple also have someone who drives them back and forth to Princeton and who cooks, does the laundry and snakes the drains when they are clogged.
Neither Mr. Wolfers nor Ms. Stevenson grew up this way. Mr. Wolfers, the second of six children, spent his early years in Sydney. His parents went through a bitter divorce when he was 15, leaving the family dependent on government assistance for a while.
Ms. Stevenson was an Air Force brat whose family hopscotched around the country before ending up in Yorktown, Va., not far from Newport News. When her father, a pilot, left the Air Force, he had trouble finding a job. Her mother scrambled to find work.
Both describe their childhood experiences of divorce and unemployment as profoundly formative, professionally and personally.
''So now we are not married,'' Mr. Wolfers joked, ''but we both have jobs.''
Mr. Wolfers excelled at math from an early age and began studying economics in high school. At first, he decided to forgo college, running for a bookie at a local racetrack. The first week on the job, he neglected to collect receipts on some of the bets he had placed with his boss's money. Some of the wagers went south and he was fired, although not before telling his boss, ''You are extrapolating beyond good data.''
Mr. Wolfers enrolled in the University of Sydney and went on to earn the University Medal in economics. From there, he joined Australia's central bank.
''I was the most self important 22-year-old you ever met,'' Mr. Wolfers said.
Ms. Stevenson's confidence came later. In high school in Virginia, she was a top student in math and science but felt out of place in a social milieu that prized looks and boyfriends over academics. But she realized that many of the popular students in high school did not end up having the kind of adult life she wanted. ''Education was the only way out of a dreary strip-mall existence,'' she said. She headed for Wellesley College and eventually decided to study economics.
''The truth is, it was for me a really natural way of seeing the world,'' she said. ''All of a sudden, ideas I had expressed before that had seemed sort of nutty made sense.''
After Wellesley, she worked as a research assistant at the Federal Reserve, then left for Harvard to begin her Ph.D.
In her third year there, a handsome Australian on a Fulbright scholarship arrived. At first, Ms. Stevenson dismissed him as a mere political scientist. ''It wasn't what he said; it was his long hair,'' she said.
Mr. Wolfers, kneading one of Ms. Stevenson's pedicured feet, interrupted.
''Betsey used to tell this story as, 'He was too good-looking to be an economist,' '' he said. ''But somehow the story has gotten less generous.''
The couple officially met at a party. Mr. Wolfers had brought a six-pack of Newcastle Brown Ale and, as was the Aussie custom, planned to drink it all himself. Ms. Stevenson grabbed a bottle and swigged it down. Before long, he moved in.
Everyone in the economics department quickly noticed Mr. Wolfers's brash assurance. In an early class with Professor Mankiw, Mr. Wolfers took issue with one of his professor's points, calling out, ''That's bollocks, Greg.''
Professor Mankiw still remembers the incident. ''It struck me that it was very blunt, but it also wasn't a word that Americans use very much,'' he said. ''So for the next couple of weeks I called him 'Mr. Bollocks' whenever I called on him.''
Mr. Wolfers later achieved star status at Harvard when Olivier Blanchard, then a visiting professor there, invited him to collaborate on research examining unemployment in Europe. Mr. Blanchard, now at M.I.T., said that some economists bluff how much they know but that ''my nose told me he knew the numbers.''
Ms. Stevenson knows the numbers, too. ''She has a weird cleverness about how to use the data in the real world to answer the questions in front of us,'' said Caroline M. Hoxby, who served as one of her thesis advisers and is now a professor at Stanford. ''That is something that can't be taught. You either have it or you don't have it. It's like a gene or something.''
Still, Ms. Stevenson said her self-esteem took a beating at Harvard. ''My confidence had been so eroded that I was the one saying, 'Well, maybe this ...' But you can't exist in economics that way,'' she said. ''It's not a profession that rewards modesty in any way.''
So she turned down a faculty position at the University of Michigan and moved to California with Mr. Wolfers, who had accepted a job at the Stanford business school. Ms. Stevenson went to work for Forrester Research, the technology consulting firm.
Within a year, she was itching to get back to the academy. She persuaded her boss to let her cobble together vacation time to work on economic research about the effect of the Internet on job search behavior. Although Mr. Wolfers acknowledged having ''huge relationship phobia,'' because of his parents' divorce, the couple applied for dozens of jobs together and ended up accepting posts at Wharton.
Their intellectual partnership soon blossomed. In their first jointly published paper, they examined what happened after states passed laws allowing one spouse to initiate a divorce. They found that in states that adopted such laws, women's suicide rates dropped, domestic abuse declined and even the number of women being murdered by their husbands fell.
BOTH hew -- one might even say passionately -- to the data. But Ms. Stevenson says she gives a lot of thought to how people feel in certain situations and how those feelings influence their behavior.
Mr. Wolfers said that although he has an emotional side, ''as an economist I've learned to squash it like hell.''
His mother, Roslyn Wolfers, said she was bemused by this analysis.
''Out of all my children he was, and still is, the most emotional,'' Ms. Wolfers wrote in an e-mail. ''Any attempts to hide his feelings, positive or negative, are doomed to failure. This seems to be at odds with his belief that all aspects of life can be described by an economic concept or a cold, bleak economics formula.''
Claudia Goldin, a Harvard labor economist and another of Ms. Stevenson's advisers, says she hopes that her former student and Mr. Wolfers will balance a little more emotion with classic economics in the introductory textbook they are writing together.
One of the problems with how economics is taught, Ms. Goldin said, is that ''there aren't people, there are agents, X's and Y's.'' ''Wouldn't it be nice,'' she added, ''if our friends Betsey and Justin were writing a textbook that used all of their wealth of information about this real world in which people get married, get divorced, are happy and unhappy?''
Some people have mistaken their scholarly interests for insights of the touchy-feely, self-help variety. But Mr. Wolfers says the couple's friends generally know better.
''Our friends don't see us as experts, God bless them,'' he said. ''We're experts about abstract notions, so my friends might call me and say, 'How's the economy doing?' but not, 'Should I get married?' ''
Sometimes people can't resist asking for advice. When a friend asked if she and her husband should move from the Upper East Side of Manhattan to the Upper West Side because they liked the West Side better, Ms. Stevenson explained the reasons that their decision might be economically unsound, even if it was the right choice emotionally.
''Economists make very cold, calculating decisions and will come up with what looks like the rational best decision,'' Ms. Stevenson said. ''But there were these other factors.''
''I disagree with everything Betsey was just saying,'' Mr. Wolfers said. ''Betsey says, here are a set of benefits and costs, and they chose to do the emotional thing. But real economics takes account of emotions as well.''
LAST month, Ms. Stevenson and Mr. Wolfers presented new research into what is known as the Easterlin Paradox. First documented by the economist Richard Easterlin in the 1970s, this concept involves the link between economic growth and happiness. The idea is that, within a given country, people with higher incomes are more likely to be happy, and yet, for the most part, the average level of happiness doesn't vary much from rich countries and poor countries. What's more, as countries become richer, their populations don't become happier.
Using a red laser pointer to highlight PowerPoint graphs, Ms. Stevenson told a group of economists, psychologists and other experts gathered at the Russell Sage Foundation on the Upper East Side of Manhattan that earlier research had failed to take into account that as people and countries grow richer, it takes a much bigger amount of absolute dollars to raise incomes, and thus happiness.
So while it could appear that increases in happiness flattened out after incomes reached a certain point, ''the richer you are, the more dollars it takes to give you the same increase in well-being,'' Ms. Stevenson said. ''To get a 10 percent increase in income, you need more dollars than when you are poor.''
Asked for comment, Mr. Easterlin declined to be interviewed but pointed out in an e-mail that their research excluded China and India. (Ms. Stevenson and Mr. Wolfers found significant problems with data from both of those countries.)
Still, data alone can't explain everything in life. Before Matilda arrived, Ms. Stevenson reviewed research on children and their effect on adult happiness. ''I was really put off by the fact that people with kids were less happy,'' she said.
But at their home last month, their delight in their daughter was clear.
Mr. Wolfers has written about the joys of fatherhood: ''It's visceral; it's real; it's hormonal and it's not in our economic models.''
Over dinner, he and Ms. Stevenson began discussing Republican attacks on President Obama's economic policies.
''Mama,'' Matilda interrupted, ''stop talking about work.''
So Ms. Stevenson asked her daughter about her afternoon at the playground. Matilda happily shoved pieces of fusilli pasta into her mouth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A couple themselves, Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers are the go-to pair on what some might call ''lovenomics,'' having produced a much research on marriage, divorce and child-rearing. They are shown at home with their daughter, Matilda, and family dog, Max. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
 The economists Betsey Stevenson, left, and Justin Wolfers both describe their childhood experiences of divorce and unemployment as profoundly formative, both professionally and personally.(BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (89%); CHILD CARE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); STATISTICS (67%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (89%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



490 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; THIS LIFE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Lulled to Sleep

BYLINE: By BRUCE FEILER. 
Bruce Feiler's latest book, ''All Happy Families,'' will be published next year.

 BODY:
I CAN pinpoint the moment I realized the world was threatened with pillow overpopulation.
My wife and I were visiting my in-laws outside Boston. As we prepared to settle in for the night in their handsome, recently refurbished guest room, we faced a daunting task. First we had to deforest the bed of its four layers of pillows. Beyond the two standard pillows, there were the two large Euro pillows that seemed right out of Versailles, a small menagerie of decorative pillows in assorted squares and circles, even one of those ambiguous tubular pillows that looks like an oversize Vienna sausage.
Once those pillows were safely stacked on the floor, we slipped into bed. But each of us prefers to sleep with two pillows instead of one, so my wife dispatched me to the closet. I opened the door and out sprang a small mountain of extra pillows like clowns from a car.
One of these had been chosen to suit me, my mother-in-law later explained; another for her other son-in-law; and a few for Uncle Murray, who sleeps over occasionally. At this point we were knee-deep in pillows, like some Malthusian horde threatening to overflow the barricades of civilization. 
How did this happen? How did we go from a country that longed for a chicken in every pot to one that requires 14 pillows on every bed?
Americans spent $740 million on sleeping pillows in 2010, according to the industry trade publication Home Textiles Today. That figure has been rising in recent years, despite an overall downturn in home textiles.
While purely decorative pillows are considered a cheap way to spruce up your home (''Lipstick for your decor,'' in industry parlance), sleep pillows are increasingly marketed as a way to enhance your health, said Jennifer Negley, the publication's editor in chief. ''After the economy tanked, the sleep guys really started pushing performance,'' she said. ''You're either in a price war, or you have some special attribute that promotes sleep.''
And what attributes there are! Pillow manufacturers have flooded the marketplace with every type of foam, gel and feather imaginable. The same artisanal fetishism that brought Brooklyn bathtub beer to our fridges and Himalayan pink salt to our tables has now brought Shetland wool stuffing and Polynesian silk lining to our beds. We are awash in the age of gourmet pillows.
The most extravagant example, Ms. Negley said, is the Scandia St. Petersburg down pillow, which is made from ''the finest Siberian down and covered in superior German silk damask'' and can be customized, the firm's Web site advises, ''for your home, yacht or plane.'' A king-size version retails for $990.
I asked Ms. Negley if she had slept on one. ''It was a little mushy for me,'' she said, ''but my husband absolutely loved it.''
All this piling on has produced a backlash. Blog entries cry out with fed-up husbands griping about being crowded out of their beds by too much microfiber and memory foam. James Franco pitched up in a ''30 Rock'' episode last year playing a charming, slightly deranged man-about-town who fakes a relationship with Jenna, a fame-hungry TV personality, to quell rumors that he's obsessed with his Japanese love pillow. (The episode ends in a three-way among Mr. Franco, Liz, played by Tina Fey, and the cuckolded pillow.)
And last October, the police in Louisville, Ky., arrested a 29-year-old man on assault charges after he beat his boyfriend for having too many pillows. The victim received seven stitches.
By all accounts, American's obsession with pillows has been eagerly midwifed by the hotel industry. When Westin introduced its ''heavenly bed'' in 1999, the chain set off a race among rival brands eager to differentiate themselves by hyping their bountiful threat counts and plentiful pillows. Affinia hotels, for instance, offer a six-choice pillow menu, including hypoallergenic, magnetic therapy, buckwheat and Swedish memory.
The Benjamin Hotel in New York has gone so far as to guarantee guests a good night's sleep or offer them a free night's stay. Anya Orlanska, the hotel's ''sleep concierge,'' sends guests an e-mail three days before their arrival with a link to the hotel's 12-choice pillow menu. The most popular choices are the Cloud, which contains more than 10 million air beads to keep the head cool at night, and the Lullaby, which has a cord to hook up your MP3 player and ultrathin speakers embedded in the fiberfill.
''Remember when we were teenagers and used to sleep with those big headphones?'' said Ms. Orlanska, who grew up in Poland. ''My mother was petrified the cord would wrap around my neck and I would die in my sleep. Now this is our most popular pillow with children.''
All these options are clearly changing habits. J. D. Power & Associates has surveyed Americans for the last 23 years about their preferences at hotels and a good bed and pillow never cracked the top 10 until 2009. Last year, ''bedding and pillow choice'' reached No. 1.
But why should such luxury be limited to hotels? In the last few years, a cottage industry has popped up on the Internet in which customers buy hotels' pillows (or knockoff models) for their home. Hyatt, Hilton, Marriott, Westin and the Waldorf-Astoria all have dedicated Web sites selling their pillows and other bedding. Several more sites, including hotelpillow.com and pacificpillows.com, sell a wide variety of models.
Craig Clark, a former United States Marine who runs Pacific Pillows with his wife, sells more than 800 different kinds of hotel pillows, including some from Super 8, Red Roof Inn and Holiday Inn Express, none of which is particularly associated with luxury.
He personally sleeps with three different pillows, he told me. He tucks a Four Seasons Phoenix Down between his legs, stashes a Pillowtex Shredded Memory Foam behind his back and rests his head on a Down Etc. Diamond Support from the MGM Grand.
His wife uses four pillows, including three from the Ritz-Carlton and a down alternative she uses to buffer herself from her husband. ''She's definitely creating a little wall there,'' he said. ''I have to admit it. This is why more and more people are moving to king-size beds. The pillows are driving us apart.''
And therein lies my problem, I finally realized. In Shakespeare, pillows are often used to represent passion or lust; they are likened to bosoms and swelling loins; murder weapons are forever being rested on them or tucked beneath them. Keats rhapsodized about being ''pillow'd upon my fair love's ripening breast.'' In Japan, pillow books are intimate diaries often chronicling the love lives of the court. In the Arab world, pillows have long been strewed on the floors of harems and other exotic sanctums. In the Kama Sutra, pillows play a supporting role.
In America these days, pillows are manufactured of synthetic cluster fibers, wrapped in 600-thread-count cotton cambric ticking, then twisted and stuffed in between lovers like gerrymandered bratwurst casings forming ramparts to desire. A pillow, for centuries an aphrodisiac, has become little more than a sleeping pill. Nothing has dampened pillow talk in our culture, I'm afraid, more than pillows themselves.
So this Valentine's Day, take a page from Romeo and Juliet: ditch the pillows from the bed and rediscover the organic casing of your actual partner. Or even better, toss the pillows onto the floor and toss your lover in after them. Especially in an election year, we don't need any more talk that America has gone soft.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LUND/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



491 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: Feb. 12 -- 18

 BODY:
Theater
Ben Brantley
Mom and Dad no doubt warned you, when you were begging to try out their sedan for the first time, that getting behind a wheel can be dangerous. But they probably didn't (or let's hope they didn't) anticipate the perils awaiting the heroine of ''HOW I LEARNED I DRIVE,'' Paula Vogel's funny, sad and lyrical play, which won both the New York Critics Circle Award in 1997 and the Pulitzer Prize for drama. This quiet, seductive shocker takes an all-American rite of initiation -- the family driving lesson -- through back roads that left audiences reeling 15 years ago. That production, which starred Mary-Louise Parker and David Morse as an uncomfortably close niece and uncle, holds an almost sacred place in the memories of many theatergoers. 
Since shock waves have a way of evaporating over time, it will be fascinating to compare recollections of the original ''Drive'' with its first major New York revival, which opens in a Second Stage Theater production on Monday. Directed by Kate Whoriskey (''Ruined''), and starring Elizabeth Reaser and the excellent Norbert Leo Butz, this ''Drive'' is the season's second revival of a daring, award-laden play from the late 1990s. ''Wit,'' Margaret Edson's portrait of one woman's losing battle with cancer (which won the Pulitzer in 1999), opened on Broadway with Cynthia Nixon last month. Who recalled that the second half of the Clinton years were such a fertile period for unsettling American drama? Tony Kiser Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton; (212) 246-4422, 2st.com.
Film
Neil Genzlinger
You probably don't think much about those cargo containers that you see stacked up on ships, piers and freight trains. But the people who manage the harbors of New York and New Jersey have been thinking about them a lot in recent years, because the growth in cargo-container shipping has created an expensive problem for them: containers are sometimes stacked so high that big ships can't pass under the Bayonne Bridge, which connects New Jersey and Staten Island. A plan to raise the bridge by 64 feet is on the boards, with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey pledging $1 billion for the project. And that is just one small consequence of container shipping worldwide. ''THE FORGOTTEN SPACE,'' a film by Allan Sekula and Noel Burch that opens on Wednesday at Anthology Film Archives, seeks to explore the changes that this type of shipping has wrought.
The film, a sort of poetic essay, looks not just at the movement of the containers across the sea, but also at the production system that fills them, its economic impact and our changing view of the sea itself -- the ''forgotten space'' of the title. ''Our premise is that the sea remains the crucial space of globalization,'' the directors say in their notes on the film. ''Nowhere else is the disorientation, violence and alienation of contemporary capitalism more manifest, but this truth is not self-evident and must be approached as a puzzle or mystery, a problem to be solved.'' 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village; (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org.
Dance
Roslyn Sulcas
The BALLETS DE MONTE-CARLO hasn't been seen in New York in a good while, and it arrives at the Joyce Theater for the first time on Wednesday with two ballets by Jean-Christophe Maillot, who has directed the company since 1993. Mr. Maillot is presenting two pieces that feature an intriguing mix of music and design. In ''Opus 40,'' from 2000, Mr. Maillot uses music by Meredith Monk and sets and costumes by the painter George Condo. And the 2006 ''Altro Canto I,'' set to music by Monteverdi, has costumes by Karl Lagerfeld and sets by the artist Rolf Sachs. 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, 8 p.m. Thursday and Friday, 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Saturday, 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. Sunday, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea; (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $10-$75.
Ishmael Houston-Jones's PARALLELS series picks up again Thursday at Danspace Project, with an invitation to three important choreographers -- Jawole Willa Jo Zollar, Bebe Miller and Dean Moss -- to consider what it means to be a black artist today. On Thursday, Ms. Zollar looks at improvisation. (''What does a group of African- American improvisers bring to the table?'' she asks in the press materials. ''Will it be different? Does it matter?'') On Friday, Ms. Miller asks three female dance creators to reflect on the idea of legacy. On Saturday, Dean Moss picked artists (Pedro Jimenez, Young Jean Lee and Ann Liv Young) about whom he says, ''None of them are African-American, but all of them are black.'' 8 p.m. Thursday to Saturday, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village; (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org; $18.
Television
Kathryn Shattuck
When Memphis's mostly black sanitation force went on strike in February 1968, faculty members at Memphis State University began collecting television, radio and published accounts of what they believed was a seminal moment in the civil rights movement. The accumulation of material continued as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. arrived in the city to speak at a rally for the workers on March 18 and then returned for a march that month that, to his dismay, turned violent. On April 3 Dr. King gave his ''Mountaintop'' speech -- his last -- at the Mason Temple in Memphis, saying: ''I've seen the promised land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight that we, as a people, will get to the promised land.'' The next day, after his associates had negotiated an agreement to lift a judge's temporary restraining order and allow for another, peaceful, demonstration, Dr. King prepared to meet colleagues for dinner. He was shot as he stood on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel.
''MLK: THE ASSASSINATION TAPES,'' Sunday at 9 p.m. on the Smithsonian Channel, draws from news footage housed at what is now the University of Memphis, much of it not widely viewed, that chronicles the weeks leading up to Dr. King's visits as well as the aftermath of his murder. The hourlong documentary captures the hunt for Dr. King's assassin, the pleas for peace from President Lyndon B. Johnson, and the march in Memphis in support of striking workers by Dr. King's widow, Coretta Scott King, and their children just days after his death.
Classical
Vivien Schweitzer
After a rocky period of budget distress, tumultuous union negotiations and an outcry from many artists over its decision to leave its longtime home at Lincoln Center, NEW YORK CITY OPERA inaugurates its new life as a peripatetic company on Sunday with a performance at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Jonathan Miller directs Verdi's ever-popular ''Traviata'' in a production that retains the original 19th-century setting and was well received at Glimmerglass in 2009. Steven White conducts a cast including Laquita Mitchell, a Brooklyn native, in the title role and the Canadian tenor David Pomeroy as Alfredo. 1:30 p.m. Sunday and 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday; Howard Gilman Opera House, 30 Lafayette Avenue Fort Greene; (212) 870-5600, nycopera.com; remaining tickets are $25.
At Lincoln Center the METROPOLITAN OPERA'S revival of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly'' opens on Friday. Anthony Minghella's staging is sumptuous, although a real child would be preferable to the puppet used to portray Cio-Cio San's son, however expertly wielded by a team of puppeteers. Patricia Racette has proven a vocally and theatrically admirable Cio-Cio San. The cast, conducted by Placido Domingo, also includes Maria Zifchak as Suzuki. 7:30 p.m. Friday, Lincoln Center; (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $25 to $415.
Pop
Nate Chinen
''Biophilia,'' the current multimedia opus by BJORK, is less an album than a system of engagement: with technology, with the physical world, with abstract musical concepts and tactile visual play. Released last year both in album form and as a series of iPad apps, it presents an open-ended experience with a stealth educational aim. Before the project's unveiling last summer Bjork suggested that its ideal tour would hit science museums, with interactive exhibits mirroring the apps.
That vision is now upon us: this month Bjork began her residency at the New York Hall of Science. There are three remaining performances there this week, before the show moves to the Roseland Ballroom. In both settings you'll get the full sweep of Bjork's vocal and sartorial splendor, along with the Jules Verne-ish custom instruments -- Tesla coils, pendulum-harps, a ''gameleste'' -- that give ''Biophilia'' its sonic imprint. But go the museum route if you can: its shows are in the round, and doors open early to encourage a look at the exhibits. As is often the case with Bjork, the intended result is both esoteric and egalitarian.
8:30 p.m. Sunday, Wednesday and Saturday, New York Hall of Science, 47-01 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, (718) 699-0005, nysci.org. 7 p.m. Feb. 22, 25, 28 and March 2, Roseland Ballroom, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. Tickets $89.75 to $170.50, ticketmaster.com.
Art
Karen Rosenberg
With the Whitney Biennial now less than a month away, the NEW MUSEUM opens its second Triennial, ''The Ungovernables,'' on Wednesday. Featuring the work of 34 artists, artist groups and collectives worldwide, it has the makings of an ambitious international complement to the Whitney's America-centric show. The Triennial's curator, Eungie Joo, recruited participants on a tour of 20 countries in 18 months. She focused on artists who came of age in the 1980s and '90s, in the wake of independence and revolutionary movements. (The show's title is a nod to the 1976 student uprisings in South Africa.)
Expect to see work that looks provisional or in flux, including many site-specific projects. The sculptor Adrian Villar Rojas, who represented Argentina at last year's Venice Biennial and was one of several ''Ungovernables'' artists to receive a yearlong residency from the New Museum, will be showing his monumental cracked-clay sculptures. Danh Vo, who was born in Vietnam, grew up in Denmark and now works in Berlin, will present a fragile, deconstructed version of the Statue of Liberty produced with the help of hired craftsmen. And the Indonesian new-media collective and alternative space House of Natural Fiber will be presenting a water-filtration system that also makes music. Through April 22, 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side; (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER (90%); CONTAINERIZATION (88%); HARBORS & PORTS (85%); MARINE SHIPPING (85%); DRIVER EDUCATION (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (62%); PORT AUTHORITIES (61%); TRAINS (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



492 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Pepsi Sign Gets More Company

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
TWO more glass skyscrapers are being added to the growing collection of towers on the waterfront in Long Island City in Queens.
The rental towers are part of East Coast, a project being developed by one of the city's most prolific builders, TF Cornerstone. When completed in early 2014, East Coast will consist of six skyscrapers clustered around the giant Pepsi sign on the East River waterfront, with almost 2,800 units.
The East Coast collection already includes 47-20 Center, a tower with 498 rentals built in 2006, and the View, a condominium building with 185 units at 46-30 Center, finished in early 2010. One of the new buildings, a 42-story tower at 46-15 Center Boulevard, will open next month. The building is angled so that every one of the 367 apartments has at least a small view of Manhattan, and most have sweeping vistas of the city skyline. A second tower, at 45-40 Center, with 32 stories, has 345 apartments and should be renting by June. 
A third tower, with 820 rental apartments, at 45-45 Center, is already under construction, along with a 1,000-car parking garage and a fitness and recreation center with 50,000 square feet of outdoor space. The recreation center will have a great lawn, two tennis courts, a beach volleyball court and a children's playroom, among other amenities. It will be open to all residents of East Coast buildings, though each building also has its own small fitness center.
Ground has not yet been broken on a fourth tower, at 46-10 Center, which will have 586 rentals, and will be on the waterfront in front of 46-15. Rents in 46-15 Center will start at $2,000 a month for a lower-floor studio apartment; $2,600 for a one-bedroom; and $3,350 for a two-bedroom unit, said K. Thomas Elghanayan, the chairman of TF Cornerstone. Rents in 45-40 Center, the tower opening in June, will be a bit higher, and that building will also have three-bedroom apartments for families, he said.
A branch of the popular coffee bar Sweetleaf will be opening in the retail space at 46-15 Center.
The East Coast development has largely been a test of the New York City housing market, which has remained relatively stable despite the recession and national housing crisis. More specifically, it has also been a test of Long Island City's appeal to potential buyers and renters, especially families.
''This product is as luxurious as anything in Manhattan,'' Mr. Elghanayan said, pointing to hardwood floors and kitchens with high-gloss black cabinetry and quartz countertops. Most of the units have a terrace or balcony, and the building has a landscaped common terrace.
''The rooms, the views, everything is right,'' he said, ''but people just have to wrap their heads around the idea of coming to Queens.''
The 185-unit condo building in East Coast, called the View, is only about 75 percent sold, ''but we're holding our price,'' said Sofia Estevez, an executive vice president of TF Cornerstone. She said company principals believe that the remaining units will sell out at $850 to $1,000 a square foot once the entire East Coast development is completed.
The average price of a condo in the neighborhood is about $750 a square foot, said Eric Benaim, the president of the Long Island City real estate firm Modern Spaces.
An important component of the neighborhood for families will be a 662-seat school for kindergarten through eighth grade, now under construction adjacent to 46-15 Center. And an intermediate and high school will be built just south of East Coast at the Hunters Point South megadevelopment.
The neighborhood also continues to add restaurants, retail services and activities, Mr. Elghanayan said. New dining options include Alobar Restaurant at 46-42 Vernon Boulevard and the Mexican restaurant Skinny's Cantina at 47-05 Center.
Residents have a craft beer bar, Alewife Queens, at 5-14 51st Avenue, and the comedy club Laughing Devil opened in December at 47-38 Vernon.
More restaurants are in the works, said Mr. Benaim, who lives in the neighborhood. A burger joint called Petey's, which has a branch in Astoria, will open in coming months on Vernon, as will a spinoff of the Greenwich Village bar Corner Bistro, and a Vietnamese restaurant by the owners of the Thai restaurant Tuk Tuk, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SKYLINE VISTAS: Each of the 367 apartments at 46-15 Center Boulevard will have at least a small view of Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (86%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



493 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: The M.R.S. and the Ph.D.

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE COONTZ. 
The author of ''A Strange Stirring: The Feminine Mystique and American Women at the Dawn of the 1960s.''

 BODY:
TODAY women earn almost 60 percent of all bachelor's degrees and more than half of master's and Ph.D.'s. Many people believe that, while this may be good for women as income earners, it bodes ill for their marital prospects.
As Kate Bolick wrote in a much-discussed article in The Atlantic last fall, American women face ''a radically shrinking pool of what are traditionally considered to be 'marriageable' men -- those who are better educated and earn more than they do.'' Educated women worry that they are scaring away potential partners, and pundits claim that those who do marry will end up with unsatisfactory matches. They point to outdated studies suggesting that women with higher earnings than their husbands do more housework to compensate for the threat to their mates' egos, and that men who earn less than their wives are more likely to experience erectile dysfunction.
Is this really the fate facing educated heterosexual women: either no marriage at all or a marriage with more housework and less sex? Nonsense. That may have been the case in the past, but no longer. For a woman seeking a satisfying relationship as well as a secure economic future, there has never been a better time to be or become highly educated. 
For more than a century, women often were forced to choose between an education and a husband. Of women who graduated from college before 1900, more than three-quarters remained single. As late as 1950, one-third of white female college graduates ages 55 to 59 had never married, compared with only 7 percent of their counterparts without college degrees.
Some of these women chose to stay single, of course, and that choice has always been easier and more rewarding for educated women. But the low marriage rates of educated women in the past were also because of the romantic and sexual prejudices of men. One physician explained the problem in Popular Science Monthly in 1905: An educated woman developed a ''self-assertive, independent character'' that made it ''impossible to love, honor and obey'' as a real wife should. He warned that as more middle-class women attended college, middle-class men would look to the lower classes to find uneducated wives.
That is exactly what happened in the mid-20th century. From 1940 to the mid-1970s, the tendency for men to marry down educationally became more pronounced and the cultural ideal of hypergamy -- that women must marry up -- became more insistent.
Postwar dating manuals advised women to ''play dumb'' to catch a man -- and 40 percent of college women in one survey said they actually did so. As one guidebook put it: ''Warning! ... Be careful not to seem smarter than your man.'' If you hide your intelligence, another promised, ''you'll soon become the little woman to be pooh-poohed, patronized and wed.''
Insulting as it may have been, such advice was largely sound. Studying national surveys on mate preferences, David M. Buss, a psychologist at the University of Texas, and his colleagues found that in 1956, education and intelligence were together ranked 11th among the things men sought in a mate. Much more important to them was finding a good cook and housekeeper who was refined, neat and had a pleasing disposition. By 1967, education and intelligence had moved up only one place, to No. 10, on men's wish lists.
Men in the postwar period were threatened by the thought of a woman with more or even as much education as they had. One man who taught at a women's college in the 1950s told me his colleagues used to joke that once they knew a woman had earned a Ph.D., they didn't even need to ask what she had specialized in: clearly, it was in ''Putting Hubby Down.''
But over the past 30 years, these prejudices have largely disappeared. By 1996, intelligence and education had moved up to No. 5 on men's ranking of desirable qualities in a mate. The desire for a good cook and housekeeper had dropped to 14th place, near the bottom of the 18-point scale. The sociologist Christine B. Whelan reports that by 2008, men's interest in a woman's education and intelligence had risen to No. 4, just after mutual attraction, dependable character and emotional stability.
The result has been a historic reversal of what the economist Elaina Rose calls the ''success'' penalty for educated women. By 2008, the percentage of college-educated white women ages 55 to 59 who had never been married was down to 9 percent, just 3 points higher than their counterparts without college degrees. And among women 35 to 39, there was no longer any difference in the percentage who were married.
African-American women are less likely to marry than white women overall, but educated black women are considerably more likely to marry than their less-educated counterparts. As of 2008, 70 percent of African-American female college graduates had married, compared with 60 percent of high school graduates and just 53 percent of high school dropouts.
One reason educated heterosexual women may worry about their marriage prospects today is that overall marriage rates have been slipping since 1980. But they have slipped less for educated women than for anyone else. Furthermore, college-educated women, once they do marry, are much less likely to divorce. As a result, by age 30, and especially at ages 35 and 40, college-educated women are significantly more likely to be married than any other group. And according to calculations by the economist Betsey Stevenson, an educated woman still single at age 40 is much more likely to marry in the next decade than her less educated counterparts.
Even for women who don't marry, it's better to be educated; a 2002 study found that never-married white women with more education than average lived ''the longest, healthiest lives of all groups.''
ONE of the dire predictions about educated women is true: today, more of them are ''marrying down.'' Almost 30 percent of wives today have more education than their husbands, while less than 20 percent of husbands have more education than their wives, almost the exact reverse of the percentages in 1970.
But there is not a shred of evidence that such marriages are any less satisfying than marriages in which men have equal or higher education than their wives. Indeed, they have many benefits for women.
In a forthcoming paper from the Council on Contemporary Families, Oriel Sullivan, a researcher at Oxford University, reports that the higher a woman's human capital in relation to her husband -- measured by her educational resources and earnings potential -- the more help with housework she actually gets from her mate. The degree to which housework is shared is now one of the two most important predictors of a woman's marital satisfaction. And husbands benefit too, since studies show that women feel more sexually attracted to partners who pitch in.
Speaking of which, educated wives also get better sex, whatever their partner's educational level, according to the sexuality researchers Pepper Schwartz and Virginia Rutter. They are more likely to receive as well as give oral sex, to use a greater variety of sexual positions and to experience orgasm regularly.
Certainly, some guys are still threatened by a woman's achievements. But scaring these types off might be a good thing. The men most likely to feel emotional and physical distress when their wives have a higher status or income tend to be those who are more invested in their identity as breadwinners than as partners and who define success in materialistic ways. Both these traits are associated with lower marital quality. Few women really want to marry a man whose penis rises and falls in tandem with the size of his paycheck or the prestige of his diploma.
Yet when the journalist Liza Mundy interviewed young women for her forthcoming book on female breadwinners, she found that most wanted a mate they could ''look up to'' or ''admire'' -- and didn't think they could admire a man who was less educated than they were. During a talk I recently gave to a women's group in San Francisco, an audience member said, ''I want him to respect what I know, but I also want him to know just a little more than me.'' One of my students once told me, ''it's exciting to be a bit in awe of a guy.''
For a century, women have binged on romance novels that encouraged them to associate intimidation with infatuation; it's no wonder that this emotional hangover still lingers. Valentine's Day is a perfect time to reject the idea that the ideal man is taller, richer, more knowledgeable, more renowned or more powerful. The most important predictor of marital happiness for a woman is not how much she looks up to her husband but how sensitive he is to her emotional cues and how willing he is to share the housework and child-care. And those traits are often easier to find in a low-key guy than a powerhouse.
I am not arguing that women ought to ''settle.'' I am arguing that we can now expect more of a mate than we could when we depended on men for our financial security, social status and sense of accomplishment. But that requires ditching the Lois Lane syndrome, where we ignore the attractions and attention of Clark Kent because we're so eager for the occasional fly-by from Superman.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING BY ANDREA KALFAS)
 CHARTS: What Men Want: Then and Now: Surveys asked men to rank the importance of 18 traits in prospective wives. Here's how the rankings changed in seven decades. (Source: ''Measuring Mate Preferences: A Replication and Extension'' by Christine B. Whelan, University of Pittsburgh, and Christie F. Boxer and Mary Noonan, University of Iowa)(SR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (92%); MARRIAGE (90%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



494 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: White-Collar Woes

BYLINE: By ARIEL KAMINER

 BODY:
Aninvestment adviser offered this suggestion: When shopping at big retailers, take up the offer for a new credit card to take advantage of the, say, 10 percent discount. Then when the bill comes, pay it and cancel the account (and risk a slight but temporary dent in your credit rating). I think this isn't ethical. Even if you don't like chains, working the system for benefits you don't deserve is dishonest. Right? NAME WITHHELD, CALIFORNIA
Taking a benefit under terms other than those you and the store agreed to would be dishonest. And your adviser's recommendation seems like an obvious effort to do just that. But it's not. 
That 10 percent discount is a sale by another name. It's designed to get you in the door and shopping. As long as you buy something, you're helping to make the store's promotion a success.
These credit-card offers never ask you to promise that you'll keep the account open. They just ask you to sign up. After that, it's up to the store to make you feel as if additional purchases are in your interest.
Big retailers have good reason to like their odds. An open line of credit is enough to turn some new arrivals into repeat customers. So is the marketing that the store can tailor to customers' individual spending habits once they apply for that credit. You might even be one of those people: you might go in with the intention of canceling after 30 days but end up coming back for more (just as someone intending to max out the card might end up throwing it in a drawer and forgetting about it).
If you do use the card a lot, that's great for the store. If while using it a lot, you fall behind on your payments, racking up more in interest charges than it costs the store to wait for your check, even better. But even if you take the discount and run, worry not for the retailer: that initial 10 percent was carefully calibrated to tilt the balance sheet in the store's favor.
THE SHIRT OFF MY BACK
To reward me for becoming a new member, a prestigious scientific society sent me a T-shirt with its logo. It was too large, so I gave it to a homeless man. The next morning, I saw that the man was wearing my T-shirt, which made me happy. But now I have a terrible concern that I may have discredited the society's reputation. Did I do something inappropriate? NAME WITHHELD, MARYLAND
As a general rule, when we give someone a gift, we release it into her possession, to do with as she sees fit. But if you're worried, you could just ask the society. If it says you violated the spirit of the gift, you'll know the society values the exclusivity of its brand more highly than the needs of fellow humans. In which case, rather than apologize, you should quit.
MY FRIEND THE TAX CHEAT
A good friend has worked part time for our small business for about nine months. When tax time rolled around and I asked her for her Social Security number, she panicked: it turns out she has been collecting unemployment insurance and thought my offer to pay her ''on contract'' rather than on the payroll was an offer to keep the whole thing off the books. If she's caught, she will be fined $13,000, which she doesn't have, and may be charged with fraud. My internal debate is between the certainty of consequences for her and the uncertainty of consequences for the business, which might get away with not filing. What is the ethical decision? NAME WITHHELD, SAN FRANCISCO
Her panic is justifiable, but it doesn't compel you to break the law on her behalf. The problem, however, is that she is not only your contractee but also your friend. And you both failed to discuss the most basic terms of the job before work commenced.
Even if the failure was disproportionately hers, it was not hers alone. In recognition of your role, you could try to help her out with that fine. It's going to take a lot to get her through this situation. It will also take a lot to preserve any semblance of your friendship. Attending to one concern might help attend to the other.
ARMCHAIR ETHICIST:
Sins-of-the-Father Edition
You be the judge. Join other readers and the Ethicist at nytimes.com/6thfloor on Feb. 13, between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. Eastern time, for a discussion of the following question:
Several years ago, my father and brothers were convicted of white-collar crime. They lost their property, friends, wives and dignity. I was blindsided by the news, but I put aside my own job, family and life to help them. Still, every day brought more evidence of their lies. My life was a nightmare; my mother spiraled into a depression; and worst of all were the countless victims.
My father has now been released from prison, still claiming his innocence. He and my mother are destitute, aging and alone. I am the only relative with an income (and children of my own); what are my emotional and financial obligations to my parents -- to a father who committed these crimes and a mother who turned a blind eye? NAME WITHHELD
E-MAIL queries to ethicist@nytimes.com, or send them to the Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include a daytime phone number.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW WOODSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); ETHICS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (70%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



495 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Inside Intelligence

BYLINE: By JUDITH WARNER. 
Judith Warner is the author, most recently, of ''We've Got Issues: Children and Parents in the Age of Medication.''

 BODY:
QUIET
The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking
By Susan Cain
333 pp. Crown Publishers. $26.
My neighbor, a leadership development consultant who regularly helps people improve themselves through personality tests like the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, once told me I was the most introverted person he'd ever met. I took this as a compliment. Who wouldn't?
The introverts who are the subject of Susan Cain's new book, ''Quiet,'' don't experience their inwardness in quite so self-congratulatory a way. 
They and others view their tendency toward solitary activity, quiet reflection and reserve as ''a second-class personality trait, somewhere between a disappointment and a pathology,'' Cain writes. Too often denigrated and frequently overlooked in a society that's held in thrall to an ''Extrovert Ideal -- the omnipresent belief that the ideal self is gregarious, alpha and comfortable in the spotlight,'' Cain's introverts are overwhelmed by the social demands thrust upon them. They're also underwhelmed by the example set by the voluble, socially successful go-getters in their midst who ''speak without thinking,'' in the words of a Chinese software engineer whom Cain encounters in Cupertino, Calif., the majority Asian-American enclave that she suggests is the introversion capital of the United States.
Many of the self-avowed introverts she meets in the course of this book, which combines on-the-scenes reporting with a wide range of social science research and a fair bit of ''quiet power'' cheerleading, ape extroversion. Though some fake it well enough to make it, going along to get along in a country that rewards the out/going, something precious, the author says, is lost in this masquerade. Unchecked extroversion -- a personality trait Cain ties to ebullience, excitability, dominance, risk-taking, thick skin, boldness and a tendency toward quick thinking and thoughtless action -- has actually, she argues, come to pose a real menace of late. The outsize reward-seeking tendencies of the hopelessly /outer-directed helped bring us the bank meltdown of 2008 as well as disasters like Enron, she claims. With our economy now in ruins, Cain writes, it's time to establish ''a greater balance of power'' between those who rush to speak and do and those who sit back and think. Introverts -- who, according to Cain, can count among their many virtues the fact that ''they're relatively immune to the lures of wealth and fame'' -- must learn to ''embrace the power of quiet.'' And extroverts should learn to sit down and shut up.
Introverts may be an odd audience for a book about power and leadership -- concepts that necessarily involve the tiring and unappealing prospect of having power over, and leadership of, other people. Jonathan Rauch, a contributing editor at National Journal, tapped into the inherent humor of this contradiction some years ago, when he wrote a much-read meditation in The Atlantic on introversion. Rauch dreamed about the dawning of an ''Introverts' Rights movement,'' the slogan of which might someday be ''Please shush.'' He got the tone just right: ''Remember, someone you know, respect and interact with every day is an introvert, and you are probably driving this person nuts.''
''Quiet,'' a long and ploddingly earnest book, would have greatly benefited from some of this levity. But for Cain, the perils of introversion are no laughing matter. Her interest in writing on the subject, she relates, stemmed from her own agonizing difficulties with public speaking -- an aversion to putting herself ''out there,'' which made Harvard Law School such a trial that she once threw up on the way to class. Her Cupertino ''introverts'' (who, I think, are probably better understood as sharing a cultural background rather than a near-universal personality trait) feel unappreciated, undervalued, resentful of their extroverted (and non-Asian) fellow students and colleagues who noisily ''talk nonsense,'' as a Taiwanese-born Cupertino woman puts it, and still get ahead. Her ''extroverts'' are, often enough, obnoxious fools: Stanford students stripping naked and running down a San Francisco street as part of a freshman ''icebreaking'' event; a charismatic self-help guru, raking in the dough as he flashes his too-white teeth and sells the secrets of his success to the constitutionally less exuberant. It would be easy to blame people like this for the decline of our civilization if they were, in fact, typical. But, of course, they aren't.
Cain, who left a career in corporate law and consulting for a quieter life of writing at home with her family, is at her best on the subject of children. Her accounts of introverted kids misunderstood and mishandled by their parents should give pause, for she rightly notes that introversion in children (often incorrectly viewed as shyness) is in some ways threatening to the adults around them. Indeed, in an age when kids are increasingly herded into classroom ''pods'' for group work, Cain's insights into the stresses of nonstop socializing for some children are welcome; her advice that parents should choose to view their introverted offspring's social style with understanding rather than fear is well worth hearing.
However useful and astute her observations and advice regarding introverted kids, though, Cain's book is about adults, and on this population, unfortunately, she's a whole lot less convincing. For one thing, her definition of introversion -- a temperamental inner-/directedness first identified as a core personality trait by Carl Jung in 1921 -- widens constantly; by the end of the book, it has expanded to include all who are ''reflective, cerebral, bookish, unassuming, sensitive, thoughtful, serious, contemplative, subtle, introspective, inner-directed, gentle, calm, modest, solitude-seeking, shy, risk-averse, thin-skinned.'' This widening of the definition makes introversion so broad a category, including, basically, all that is wise and good, that it's largely meaningless, except as yet another vehicle for promoting self-esteem: ''a very empowering lens through which to view your personality,'' as Cain puts it.
Another problem with Cain's argument is her assumption that most introverts are actually suffering in their self-esteem. This may be true in the sorts of environments -- Harvard Business School, corporate boardrooms, executive suites -- that she knows best and appears to spend most of her time thinking about. Had she spent more time in other sorts of places, among other types of people -- in research laboratories, for example, or among economists rather than businessmen and -women -- she would undoubtedly have discovered a world of introverts quite contented with who they are, and who feel that the world has been good to them.
The need to dress up any exploration of a social or psychological phenomenon in go-go language, making interesting observations or reflections the basis for something like a new social movement (''Introverts of the World, Unite!'' as The Atlantic headlined a follow-up interview with Rauch), is particularly American, and can be as noisily grating as the compulsory extroversion Cain deplores. ''Quiet'' is full of gratuitous sloganeering: ''Love is essential; gregariousness is optional.'' ''The secret to life is to put yourself in the right lighting.'' Such writing offsets Cain's serious research rather badly. A more quiet argument would have been much more effective.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LUCI GUTIERREZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



496 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Most Expect to Give More Than They Receive, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By ALLISON KOPICKI

 BODY:
A majority of Americans say they expect to pay more in federal taxes over their lifetime than they will ever receive in benefits from the government, according to a recent New York Times poll. At the same time, the taxes Americans pay today are not keeping pace with the growing costs of government. 
Medicare is the program projected to add the most to federal spending over the next decade, likely increasing the government's annual budget deficits. But only one in five Americans surveyed named Medicare as the fastest-growing benefits program. From a number of choices, 27 percent identified programs for the poor, 17 percent said unemployment benefits and programs, 14 percent said Social Security and 5 percent named veterans' benefits. Twenty-two percent named Medicare.
Most Americans realize that the taxes they pay during their working years may not be enough to cover either their Medicare or Social Security benefits. But a majority of those surveyed, 55 percent, also said they would pay more in taxes than they would ever get back from the government in benefits.
In follow-up interviews, some respondents said that was because their tax dollars were also paying for government programs that did not benefit them directly, like foreign aid, the military and assistance for the poor. Some also said government waste contributed to their pessimism.
Majorities of Americans also say Social Security and Medicare will not be there for them when they reach retirement. Nearly three-fourths of those under 45 do not expect Medicare to provide benefits for them, and more than two-thirds of these younger Americans said Social Security would not have money available for their retirement years.
That pessimism is another likely reason that 6 in 10 Americans under the age of 45 said the taxes they pay over their lifetime would exceed the benefits they would receive.
Those who currently receive benefits from the government were more likely than others to say their taxes would match what they receive in benefits.
To keep Medicare solvent, a majority of Americans favor raising taxes or premiums rather than reducing benefits. When asked to choose just one proposal to reduce the program's deficit, 37 percent said they supported higher taxes on current workers, and 22 percent supported increasing the premiums paid by current recipients. Just 16 percent supported reducing benefits for future recipients, and 8 percent endorsed reducing benefits of current Medicare recipients.
Eighty-five percent agreed that increasing taxes on the wealthy should play a role in reducing the overall federal deficit, and three in five said it should play a major role. Seventy percent also favored raising taxes on all Americans, although only 32 percent said this should play a major role.
And 56 percent favored cuts in Medicare and Social Security; only 20 percent said this should play a major role.
The poll was conducted from Dec. 14 to 18 among 992 adults nationwide and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MILITARY BENEFITS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); VETERANS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



497 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2106 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Rethinking How We Vote

 BODY:
Readers debate whether a new primary and voting system proposed by a letter writer would improve how we elect a president.
The Letter
To the Editor:
Every four years a handful of the same old states effectively pick party nominees for president, voting earlier and earlier with campaign spending mattering more and more.
The parties should winnow their field with what is known as the American Plan, a nomination schedule that rewards retail campaigning and gives late-entering candidates a better chance. Ten biweekly rounds of voting would be held, starting in small states. Delegates would be allocated proportionally rather than by winner take all.
Up to three candidates for each party would earn a place in a national primary, held in June in conjunction with Congressional primaries. 
Ranked-choice voting -- a proven system used in national elections in Australia and mayoral elections in a dozen American cities, in which voters rank candidates in order of preference -- would ensure that winners earn majority support in an ''instant runoff.''
For general elections, the nominees of major parties should face more competition from third-party and independent candidates by having fairer ballot access, inclusive debates, ranked-choice voting and, eventually, a national popular vote for president.
For Congressional elections, creating larger districts with several seats and a proportional voting system to allow more voters to elect a preferred candidate would better represent the left, the right and the center.
With these changes, all Americans could be engaged in our presidential elections, not just the favored few of Iowa, New Hampshire and the other early primary and caucus states. And we just might regularly end up with better presidents and members of Congress.
ROB RICHIE Takoma Park, Md., Feb. 6, 2012
The writer is executive director of FairVote, which promotes election reform.
Readers React
There is no need for Mr. Richie's ridiculously complicated scheme, which won't be enacted in anyone's lifetime. All that is necessary to prevent a couple of small, unrepresentative states from dominating presidential primary campaigns is for the Legislatures of California, New York, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan to enact a simple amendment to their respective election codes: The date of the presidential primary in each such state shall be whatever date is selected by the New Hampshire secretary of state for that year's primary in New Hampshire.
Having the millions of voters in those populous states heard the same day as the nine fine voters in Dixville Notch will inject a dose of much-needed sanity into the electoral process.
RICHARD G. LISKOV Bronx, Feb. 8, 2012
The defense of the primacy of Iowa and New Hampshire is that these states reward ''retail politics,'' and the American Plan follows suit, allowing small states to go first.
I would suggest that being able to talk in small groups, town halls and so forth is completely irrelevant to the challenges of being president. Focusing on retail politics overromanticizes an era without mass media.
Consider how much we have learned from the series of Republican debates, information that would never be disseminated in a town hall. We live in a time of ''wholesale'' media consumption, and our nominating process should reflect that as well.
KEVIN STEVENS Buffalo, Feb. 8, 2012
Some of the reforms that Mr. Richie mentions could ameliorate problems in the selection of a president, but ranked-choice voting is not among them.
This voting reform suffers from three main difficulties. The first is that the majority choice, who could beat every other candidate in paired contests, may be dropped when candidates are eliminated sequentially. For example, if a Tea Party Republican, a regular Republican and a Democrat are the three main contenders, the regular Republican will often come in third, hit from both the left (by the Democrat) and the right (by the Tea Party Republican). So this candidate will be dropped, even though he or she could have defeated each opponent in a face-to-face contest.
Second, if none of the candidates that a voter ranks survive the elimination process, this voter has no say in the final selection.
Third, a voter can actually hurt a candidate by raising the candidate in his or her ranking. This bizarre result is unfortunately common in close elections. It occurs because a candidate's higher ranking can change who is eliminated and whose votes get transferred. The net effect, perversely, can mean that the candidate given the boost does not survive when, without the boost, he or she might ultimately have won.
For these reasons, it is not surprising that Burlington, Vt., and Aspen, Colo., two cities that tried out ranked-choice voting, have now repealed it. There are now serious efforts to repeal it in other cities because of its unfortunate, if unintended, effects.
A simple election reform that generally avoids the foregoing problems is approval voting, whereby voters can approve of as many candidates as they like. Each approved candidate receives one vote, and the candidate with the most approval votes wins. Approval voting almost always elects the majority choice, gives every voter a say (whether he or she approves of few or many candidates), and never hurts a candidate if more voters approve of him or her.
STEVEN J. BRAMS New York, Feb. 9, 2012
The writer is a professor of politics at New York University and author of ''Mathematics and Democracy: Designing Better Voting and Fair-Division Procedures.''
There is a vast array of alternatives to our current electoral system, and by allowing voters to rank candidates, most alternatives enable voters to express their preferences much more deeply than our current system. The economist and Nobel laureate Kenneth Arrow proved that there is no perfectly fair voting system, and there remains substantial debate in the mathematical and political science communities about the optimal voting system. What is not in doubt, however, is that almost any serious alternative offers substantial improvements over our current system.
The difficulty with carrying out attractive systems like instant runoff voting, however, is that they offer real promise for third-party candidates. As such, these systems pose a direct threat to our entrenched political parties, which appear more concerned with maintaining political control than in initiating meaningful change. It is in the best interest of these parties that attempts to reform our voting system be squelched.
Meaningful reform will require extensive grass-roots organization, with sustained efforts by a well-informed electorate.
STEPHEN SZYDLIK Oshkosh, Wis., Feb. 9, 2012
The writer is an associate professor of mathematics at the University of Wisconsin Oshkosh.
Any proposals like these to change the unfair nominating system must be welcomed. One aspect of the current procedure that particularly cries out for reform is the caucus system.
Not only are caucuses incompetently run and error-prone -- as your Feb. 3 article ''A Symbol of Democracy Is Criticized as Undemocratic'' revealed of the recent Iowa gathering -- but they also effectively exclude many voters and allow for voter intimidation.
Unlike a primary vote, which usually takes only a few minutes, a caucus requires an onerous commitment of time and effort, thereby excluding those who have other obligations, like child care or second jobs, or who are not able-bodied.
Moreover, most caucuses do not use the secret ballot, a time-honored feature of fair elections, which protects the right of the individual to make up his or her mind free from societal coercion.
Caucuses are, in short, blatantly undemocratic and should be abolished, so that everyone's voice may count.
JOSEPHINE DONOVAN Portsmouth, N.H., Feb. 8, 2012
Mr. Richie is right that ''instant runoff'' voting (in which voters rank candidates in order of preference, and candidates are successively eliminated according to whoever has the fewest first-place votes in the remaining pool) would be a real improvement over the current plurality rule system.
In particular, it would reduce the chance that candidate A wins an election even though a majority of voters actually prefer candidate B, a frequent occurrence under plurality rule. (For example, in the 2000 presidential contest in Florida, Al Gore, almost certainly, was preferred by a majority to George W. Bush, but Mr. Gore failed to win Florida -- and therefore the overall election -- because nearly 100,000 voters opted for Ralph Nader.)
In that respect, there is an even better election method: ''true majority rule,'' in which the winner is the candidate who, according to voters' rankings, would beat every other candidate in a head-to-head contest.
But as long as we are making reforms, why not go a step further and get rid of primary elections altogether? Under the current system, it would be disastrous for a party to send multiple candidates into the general election. If, for example, both Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton had run in the fall of 2008, they would have split the Democratic vote, ensuring the victory of John McCain, the Republican. Thus, primaries are needed to select a party's single standard-bearer.
Yet with either instant runoff or true-majority voting, there is no danger of vote-splitting: Democratic voters could rank both Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton above Mr. McCain, and so the need for primaries is obviated.
ERIC S. MASKIN Cambridge, Mass., Feb. 9, 2012
The writer is a professor of economics at Harvard University and a 2007 Nobel laureate in economics.
I support Mr. Richie's proposal, especially that part of the American Plan that would require ranked-choice voting, or an instant runoff. This would be cheaper -- no runoffs held. It would assure that any winning candidate had the support of at least half the voting population. It would give third-party or independent candidates a realistic chance of winning.
No voter would have to think, I really prefer Jones, but since he has no chance of winning, I'll vote for Brown. In a ranked-choice vote, Jones might well have a chance.
Not only Australia but Ireland and many other countries use a ranked-choice, built-in runoff election successfully today, and we could use it to great advantage.
ROGER BULLARD Wilson, N.C., Feb. 8, 2012
The Writer Responds
Electoral reform should be grounded in core democratic values: majority rule, thoughtful deliberation, high participation, equal access, fair representation and respect for our rights.
My proposals are certainly not the only way forward, but we should be wary of regressive ideas. Mr. Liskov's plan would establish a de facto national primary at the start of the year. I prefer it at the end of a 50-state campaign, thereby leading to more of the candidate debates that Mr. Stevens rightly values, as well as more retail politics that gives us better insight into our future presidents.
States should administer the national primary, but parties might choose to have their own primaries and caucuses and try new ways to get people involved. Active political parties are as American as apple pie; let's just accommodate more than two of them.
That explains why I disagree with Mr. Maskin about allowing parties to determine their nominees. But his voting proposal deserves serious consideration, even if hard to win politically. He will have to convince policy makers that it's sensible to elect a candidate with 10 percent of first choices, trailing two front-runners with 46 percent and 44 percent.
That's easier to justify than approval voting, in which a candidate backed as a first choice by 51 percent or more can lose to a candidate with no first-choice support. Even more revealing for why approval voting is not used in any governmental elections, a voter using it faces an obvious dilemma. Because backing a second candidate counts against one's first choice, the system devolves into plurality voting when used in meaningfully contested elections.
Mr. Brams's complaints about ranked-choice voting overlook the decades of successful use in nations like Ireland and Australia. No system is perfect, as Mr. Szydlik points out, but ranked-choice voting is better than the only other methods used in single-winner governmental elections -- plurality voting and runoffs -- and it's had far more successes in the United States than defeats.
I'm optimistic about my entire proposal. By joining with leaders who realize that more competition and participation make our nation stronger, we can win these reforms not only in my children's lifetime, but mine.
ROB RICHIE Takoma Park, Md., Feb. 10, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID DRUMMOND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTION LAW (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MAYORS (78%); WRITERS (73%); CITIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (72%); CITY LIFE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



498 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Pelvic Politics

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
I MAY not be as theologically sophisticated as American bishops, but I had thought that Jesus talked more about helping the poor than about banning contraceptives.
The debates about pelvic politics over the last week sometimes had a patronizing tone, as if birth control amounted to a chivalrous handout to women of dubious morals. On the contrary, few areas have more impact on more people than birth control -- and few are more central to efforts to chip away at poverty.
My well-heeled readers will be furrowing their brows at this point. Birth control is cheap, you're thinking, and far less expensive than a baby (or an abortion). But for many Americans living on the edge, it's a borderline luxury. 
A 2009 study looked at sexually active American women of modest means, ages 18 to 34, whose economic circumstances had deteriorated. Three-quarters said that they could not afford a baby then. Yet 30 percent had put off a gynecological or family-planning visit to save money. More horrifying, of those using the pill, one-quarter said that they economized by not taking it every day. (My data is from the Guttmacher Institute, a nonpartisan research organization on issues of sexual health.)
One-third of women in another survey said they would switch birth control methods if not for the cost. Nearly half of those women were relying on condoms, and others on nothing more than withdrawal.
The cost of birth control is one reason poor women are more than three times as likely to end up pregnant unintentionally as middle-class women.
In short, birth control is not a frill that can be lightly dropped to avoid offending bishops. Coverage for contraception should be a pillar of our public health policy -- and, it seems to me, of any faith-based effort to be our brother's keeper, or our sister's.
To understand the centrality of birth control, consider that every dollar that the United States government spends on family planning reduces Medicaid expenditures by $3.74, according to Guttmacher. Likewise, the National Business Group on Health estimated that it costs employers at least an extra 15 percent if they don't cover contraception in their health plans.
And of course birth control isn't just a women's issue: men can use contraceptives too, and unwanted pregnancies affect not only mothers but also fathers.
This is the backdrop for the uproar over President Obama's requirement that Catholic universities and hospitals include birth control in their health insurance plans. On Friday, the White House backed off a bit -- forging a compromise so that unwilling religious employers would not pay for contraception, while women would still get the coverage -- but many administration critics weren't mollified.
Look, there's a genuine conflict here. Many religious believers were sincerely offended that Catholic institutions would have to provide coverage for health interventions that the church hierarchy opposed. That counts in my book: it's best to avoid forcing people to do things that breach their ethical standards.
Then again, it's not clear how many people actually are offended. A national survey found that 98 percent of sexually active Catholic women use birth control at some point in their lives. Moreover, a survey by the Public Religion Research Institute reported that even among Catholics, 52 percent back the Obama policy: they believe that religiously affiliated universities and hospitals should be obliged to include birth control coverage in insurance plans.
So, does America's national health policy really need to make a far-reaching exception for Catholic institutions when a majority of Catholics oppose that exception?
I wondered what other religiously affiliated organizations do in this situation. Christian Science traditionally opposed medical care. Does The Christian Science Monitor deny health insurance to employees?
''We offer a standard health insurance package,'' John Yemma, the editor, told me.
That makes sense. After all, do we really want to make accommodations across the range of faith? What if organizations affiliated with Jehovah's Witnesses insisted on health insurance that did not cover blood transfusions? What if ultraconservative Muslim or Jewish organizations objected to health care except at sex-segregated clinics?
The basic principle of American life is that we try to respect religious beliefs, and accommodate them where we can. But we ban polygamy, for example, even for the pious. Your freedom to believe does not always give you a freedom to act.
In this case, we should make a good-faith effort to avoid offending Catholic bishops who passionately oppose birth control. I'm glad that Obama sought a compromise. But let's remember that there are also other interests at stake. If we have to choose between bishops' sensibilities and women's health, our national priority must be the female half of our population.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACEPTION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MEDICAID (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WOMEN (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ABORTION (69%); RELIGIOUS DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (67%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (62%); US PRESIDENTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: GUTTMACHER INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



499 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, February 12th 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the February 12, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending January 28, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Combined Print & E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1253HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an appendectomy. 212AMERITOPIA, by Mark R. Levin. (Threshold Editions) A talk-show host and president of Landmark Legal Foundation surveys the history of utopias and warns that Americans must choose between utopianism and liberty. 3314STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur, based on 40 interviews with Jobs conducted over two years. 41QUIET, by Susan Cain. (Crown Publishing) Introverts &#8212; one-third of the population &#8212; are undervalued in American society. 544AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (HarperCollins Publishers) A member of the Navy Seals with the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences. 61FAIRY TALE INTERRUPTED, by RoseMarie Terenzio. (Simon &#38; Schuster) Recollections of John F. Kennedy Jr. from his former personal assistant and confidante. 7518KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The anchor of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 8653UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 9734BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 101149THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown Publishing) The story of a woman whose cancer cells were cultured without her permission in 1951. 111INSIDE APPLE, by Adam Lashinsky. (Grand Central Publishing) The company&#8217;s practices and leadership strategies. 121012THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 13812THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins Publishers) The Broncos quarterback chronicles his personal and professional course. 14912CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House Publishing) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 151234IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown Publishing) William E. Dodd, the U.S. ambassador to Germany, and his daughter, Martha, in 1930s Berlin.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. ELIZABETH THE QUEEN, by Sally Bedell Smith. (Random House Publishing)
17. STRATEGIC VISION, by Zbigniew Brzezinski. (Basic Books)
18. ALL IN, by Paula Broadwell with Vernon Loeb. (Penguin Group)
19. SCORPIONS FOR BREAKFAST, by Janice K. Brewer. (HarperCollins Publishers)
20. THE OBAMAS, by Jodi Kantor. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
21. WHY ME?, by Sarah Burleton. (Sarah Burleton)
22. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
23. AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse)
24. WELCOME TO YOUR BRAIN, by Sandra Aamodt and Sam Wang. (Bloomsbury)
25. GREEDY BASTARDS, by Dylan Ratigan. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
26. MONEYBALL, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company)
27. BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company)
28. THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
29. THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
30. A UNIVERSE FROM NOTHING, by Lawrence Krauss. (Free Press)
31. A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
32. STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt)
33. THE PACT, by Steven M. Gillon. (Oxford University Press)
34. IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown Publishing)
35. GOD&#39;S JURY, by Cullen Murphy. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); RETAILERS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); HISTORY (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (66%); WORLD WAR II (62%); ARMED FORCES (62%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (53%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (53%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%); STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



500 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, February 12th 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the February 12, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending January 28, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1253HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 21FAIRY TALE INTERRUPTED, by RoseMarie Terenzio. (Simon &#38; Schuster) Recollections of John F. Kennedy Jr. from his former personal assistant and confidante. 3314STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur, based on 40 interviews with Jobs conducted over two years. 41QUIET, by Susan Cain. (Crown Publishing) Introverts &#8212; one-third of the population &#8212; are undervalued in American society. 5453UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II after his bomber went down over the Pacific. 61INSIDE APPLE, by Adam Lashinsky. (Grand Central Publishing) The company&#8217;s practices and leadership strategies. 754AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (HarperCollins Publishers) A member of the Navy Seals with the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences. 8618KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The anchor of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts one of the most consequential episodes of American history: the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 9743BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 1012AMERITOPIA, by Mark R. Levin. (Threshold Editions) A talk-show host and president of Landmark Legal Foundation surveys the history of utopias and warns that Americans must choose between utopianism and liberty. 11812CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House Publishing) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 12938IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown Publishing) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on the experiences of William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 131153THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown Publishing) The story of an African-American woman whose cancerous cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 141013WHY ME?, by Sarah Burleton. (Sarah Burleton) A memoir of a childhood of physical and mental abuse beginning in first grade and continuing for years. 151SCORPIONS FOR BREAKFAST, by Janice K. Brewer. (HarperCollins Publishers) The governor of Arizona describes her fight to defend the border. 161324AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse) An eyewitness account of the Nazi death camp, written shortly after the war by a doctor who was a prisoner there. 17173WELCOME TO YOUR BRAIN, by Sandra Aamodt and Sam Wang. (Bloomsbury) Two neuroscientists explain how the brain works. 181414THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 19232THE PACT, by Steven M. Gillon. (Oxford University Press) How Bill Clinton and Newt Gingrich formed an unlikely &#8212; and brief &#8212; alliance in 1997 to make a deal on Social Security. 201529A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A woman describes being kidnapped at the age of 11 and held prisoner for 18 years by a convicted rapist and his wife. 21193ELIZABETH THE QUEEN, by Sally Bedell Smith. (Random House Publishing Group) The public and private lives of Queen Elizabeth II as she approaches her Diamond Jubilee. 22128THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins Publishers) The Broncos quarterback chronicles his personal and professional course. 231822STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt) The actor charts his professional path from teen idol to &#34;The West Wing.&#34; 242213MONEYBALL, by Michael Lewis. (W.W. Norton &#38; Company) How Billy Beane, the general manager of the Oakland Athletics, has produced successful teams despite having one of the smallest payrolls in baseball. 252426THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing) The tale of a great architect (Daniel Hudson Burnham) and a serial killer (H. H. Holmes), who were linked by the Chicago World&#39;s Fair of 1893.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
26. STRATEGIC VISION, by Zbigniew Brzezinski. (Basic Books)
27. THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
28. IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown Publishing)
29. ALL IN, by Paula Broadwell with Vernon Loeb. (Penguin Group)
30. BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (W. W. Norton &#38; Company)
31. SERIOUSLY ... I&#39;M KIDDING, by Ellen DeGeneres. (Grand Central Publishing)
32. LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
33. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
34. THE OBAMAS, by Jodi Kantor. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
35. GREEDY BASTARDS, by Dylan Ratigan. (Simon &#38; Schuster)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); HISTORY (85%); BOOK SALES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); RETAILERS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); WORLD WAR II (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (60%)

COMPANY: GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (53%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (53%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (52%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%); STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



501 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; VOYAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 4061 words

HEADLINE: The Istanbul Art-Boom Bubble

BYLINE: By SUZY HANSEN

 BODY:
Earlier this winter, the giant 120-year-old Ottoman bank building in Istanbul reopened as a multimillion-dollar contemporary art space called SALT. This was surprising. Turks were never big on contemporary art, and for years rich people didn't visit that part of town. When I moved to the neighborhood five years ago, it was all electrical-supply stores and abandoned buildings and men smoking. My building didn't have heat; girlfriends wouldn't visit after dark; a neighbor once attacked another neighbor with a small sword. I don't see swords in Istanbul anymore. I do see a lot more art.
One evening in November, Turks and foreigners traipsed up the cobbled sidewalks to SALT's huge, heavy doors for the opening-night party. The headline exhibit featured thousands of old black-and-white photographs taken by a dead Armenian studio photographer and carefully assembled by the young artist Tayfun Serttas. Another exhibit was an installation by Gulsun Karamustafa, Turkey's doyenne of contemporary art. Another was about archaeology and Europeans looting the Ottoman Empire. 
But the space overwhelmed the art. It was too magnificent. Nothing like SALT existed in Istanbul. Inside, the building was five floors and 100,000 square feet of carved white marble. Curators, bankers, interior designers, writers, musicians, academics, artists and wealthy wives craned their necks to take in the soaring ceiling as they climbed the grand staircases. They gaped at the stylish library, and the plush movie theater, and the smoking terrace that was also a restaurant. The great imperial bulk of SALT loomed over the Golden Horn and the forlorn rooftops below.
Foreigners and expats gushed with approval. Even the fatalistic Turks, skeptical of Westerners' enthusiasm, couldn't help admitting that this strange art institution was awesome.
It appears that Istanbul, which went from a cosmopolitan wonderland in the 19th century to, in the Nobel-winning novelist Orhan Pamuk's words, a ''pale, poor, second-class imitation of a Western city'' for much of the 20th, is having its moment of rebirth. These newly wealthy corners of the East seem full of possibilities, but what kind of culture will the Turks create?
On my way out, I ran into Mari Spirito, a longtime director at 303 Gallery in New York. Spirito had just moved to Turkey to set up a nonprofit called Protocinema. Above our heads, Arabic script was etched into the marble: ''He who earns money is God's beloved servant.''
''In New York it feels like the best years are behind us,'' she said. ''In Istanbul it feels like the best years are yet to come.''
Those best years might be a long way off, many Turks would joke, but still, it is a heady time to be young and talented in Istanbul. One summer night I accompanied a group of women as they finished their dinner at a meze tavern, put on red lipstick and stopped for a bottle of raki (Turkey's national liquor) and cigarettes on their way to a party not far from SALT. Especially on muggy evenings, Istiklal Caddesi, the central pedestrian artery of the city, swarms with people, bodies colliding as Turks and tourists race to shops, cafes and bars. Arms around one another, the women maneuvered through Istiklal's traffic into Rumeli Han, an Ottoman-era arcade building that exudes a faded, dingy glory, with sooty stone staircases and crumbling ceilings. Up a few flights, past the Communist Party office, music drifted out of an artists' studio. Beer bottles and cans covered the table and floor; a stack of easels leaned against a wall; the girls poured their raki into tiny plastic cups and found a seat with their friends.
''This place has become a meeting point,'' one gallery owner said. ''It's feeding the underground scene.''
In a long room, about 40 Turks were watching the performance group Ha Za Vu Zu play music. The 20- and 30-somethings sat on the floor and listened quietly. Some women wore retro styles, '40s hair and cigarette pants. Men with poofs of black curls lounged in T-shirts. A pretty girl in a sundress thrust an invitation into my hand. ''I'm having my first show!'' she said. The venue was the prominent exhibition space Arter. ''Please come.''
The artists then began dancing to old Turkish rock, a hybrid of Western and Anatolian music, joining together in a modern version of traditional Turkish dancing: arms spread wide, women and men dancing together in pairs. The vibe was anything but self-conscious; it felt like a safe place to go nuts. Shoes came off, feet turned black. After a few hours, sweat pouring down their faces, the men took off their shirts, shouting, laughing, stamping. Someone danced into a heart-shaped ashtray, spilling cigarette butts on the floor; a woman took off her shirt, too.
''We're like girls and boys playing,'' said Yasemin Nur, a 35-year-old artist who attended the party with Gozde Ilkin. Both are members of AtilKunst, an all-female artist collective. Nur had short, asymmetrical '80s-style hair, with a thin braid. ''I do feel it is like a playground,'' Nur said. ''But we are very serious. Everyone is hardworking. They live as they produce, and they produce as they live.''
This is a life few Turks will ever know. In this conservative Muslim country of 80 million, the artists have minimal influence on social and political life at home. But they will someday export contemporary Turkish culture to the world. They have grown up during a relatively free and prosperous time in Turkey and make up an artistic elite that has more in common with their counterparts in other nations than with their own countrymen. In conversation they can easily shift from Turkish to European to American pop culture. As one young woman put it, ''I know Chicago politics better than I know my own municipality.''
Most of these artists now congregate in Beyoglu, the old European quarter, which for a long time existed in a state of spooky, decaying glamour. The elite wouldn't go to Beyoglu at night. As Turkey's economy exploded, kebab shops turned into conspicuously European cafes, squatter buildings bloomed into boutique hotels and high rents drove the poor to the city's periphery. Art galleries popped up in unexpected places. The nouveau riche and old-guard elite realized that rich people should have art collections, and the art market spiked. All of a sudden, Turkey's versions of the Rockefellers and Whitneys wanted to slap their names on old buildings and fill them with art.
Meanwhile, the ruling Islamic conservative Justice and Development Party (A.K.P.), which routinely throws writers and journalists in jail, rarely bothers with provocative artists, at least so far. (In a sinister dispatch from the Interior Ministry, an A.K.P. official pointed out that terror, that is, Kurdish terror, comes in all forms, including art.) During last year's Istanbul Biennial -- now a major art-world event -- Emine Erdogan, the prime minister's head-scarf-wearing wife, gave a speech at an opening at the Istanbul Modern, the city's main modern art museum. Freedom of expression is bad for politics, but contemporary art is good for business. Whether the government's heavy-handed relationships with the corporate patrons of the art world will be good for art is another story.
Some money has been trickling into the lives of young artists. I saw Gozde Ilkin's work months earlier in the same Rumeli Han building, at the gallery artSumer. Her show was called ''Refuge: Chorus of Voices From Inside.'' Ilkin had sewn silhouettes -- of a bride and groom, Turkish men dancing -- onto old patterned bedsheets and curtains found in her family cupboards. The silhouettes came from scenes she'd seen in real photographs. In another piece, tiny tanks, helicopters and soldiers hid among the orange and brown flowers on a curtain. The work, titled ''Curtain: They Were Sleeping Somewhere Inside of Us,'' seemed to be popular with visitors.
''Everything is already sold out,'' said the gallery's owner, Asli Sumer, said. ''They sold out yesterday'' -- before the show opened.
''See?'' Patrick Legant, an international art consultant who worked for 10 years at Sotheby's in London, turned to me and said. He had been living in Turkey for a few months then. ''This is crazy Istanbul!''
Artists like Ilkin, who is 31, find themselves with opportunities and temptations that artists of other generations here never experienced: nonprofit spaces, media attention, parties, lectures, auctions, sales. There are new books to read, archives to comb through, full-scale exhibitions of predecessors whose work they've never seen. And there are financial rewards for some: weeks after Ilkin's opening, one of her pieces sold for $12,000 at an auction at Sotheby's in London -- its third auction of exclusively Turkish art. Ilkin, who as a member of AtilKunst spends time making political stickers and putting on free performances, has actually been able to make a living as an artist. ''When I sold my first piece, I was sad,'' she said. ''I am attached to what I do, and it's not easy to give a price to it.'' She doesn't sell everything, though: ''It's important to keep some things close to you.''
The artists are well aware of what's happening to their once-ignored corner of the world. ''It's totally different, it's a market now,'' Yasemin Nur said. ''It's connected to the last economic crisis, and now Istanbul has become the hip city, and is chosen as a hip city. The system needs the hip city, and next it will be Beirut, and next somewhere else. This is our time. We will be sad, but the wind will go.''
The core of Istanbul's art scene coalesced in the '80s and '90s through the efforts of a few prominent figures: curators like Ali Akay and Beral Madra, the artist Halil Altindere, the SALT director Vasif Kortun. Most artists will tell you that Kortun, who is 53, is the father of Istanbul's art world. ''We can say, there was before and after Vasif,'' one artist told me. In order to show your work home or abroad, said another, ''you used to need Vasif.'' And he's respected internationally. ''He seems to be able to predict where art institutions will go,'' the Beirut-based critic Kaelen Wilson-Goldie said.
In 1998, Kortun returned from directing Bard College's Museum of the Center for Curatorial Studies in New York and opened up a small office in Beyoglu. He called it the Istanbul Contemporary Art Project, which became Istanbul's nascent art hub. Then, with the backing of Garanti Bank, Kortun established Platform Garanti, an exhibition space that also archived books, criticism and artists' production materials. Platform closed in 2007, and Kortun and Garanti opened SALT Beyoglu and SALT Galata in 2011. The projects, conceived as places ''for research and experimental thinking,'' cost about $30 million.
If archives and libraries are a focus, it's because few such institutions have tended to Turkey's history. ''We always wanted to create a place in Istanbul which would have all the materials so people can do their research,'' Kortun said. ''The '80s conceptual generation hasn't been assessed, the reason being they were not market artists. A lot of them went through tough times with serious disinterest in their work. So we're digitizing the complete archive.''
The neglect extends into the past well beyond the 1980s. ''I don't think most of the stuff we know is correct about the history,'' Kortun said. ''If you take the Ottoman Empire as a map, I think the most invisible part of the empire is Istanbul and the artists from Turkey.''
Turkish intellectuals attribute Istanbul's lack of a solid modern and contemporary culture to its broken history -- especially the sharp break between the Ottoman Empire and a modern, secular state. Even after the republic's founding in 1923, the Turks endured many more violent disturbances: World War II, pogroms against Armenians and Greeks, an ongoing civil war with the Kurds, three military coups. But there's another reason for the absence of a coherent Turkish culture.
''Istanbul is shallow,'' Kortun said. ''It's not an intellectual place. It was an old city with Greeks and Armenians and Jews. The Armenians were the intellectual backbone of the city. This place lost its lungs in the beginning of the 20th century. Maybe more than its lungs. It was a crippled place when it started as a nation. The 20th century is the lost century for this city.''
The ''bridge between East and West'' cliche idealizes Constantinople's fabled past, before the emergence of the repressive Turkish state. That's why it sometimes feels, in the 21st century, that even as Istanbul artists are merging with the international community, they are also looking backward to discover themselves.
''It's not a revolution,'' Kortun said, referring to Istanbul's current phase of cultural production. ''It's a correction.''
Istanbul's art community has changed enough that Turkish artists who once fled to London or Berlin or Amsterdam have come home. One day I met with Ali Kazma at Arter, the art institution whose chairman is Omer Koc, one of the most serious and respected collectors in the country. Kazma, a 40-year-old video artist, returned from New York 12 years ago. Arter's exhibition at the time included older contemporary artists -- members of Kortun's neglected generations -- like Ayse Erkmen, Sarkis, Hale Tenger and the pioneering collective Hafriyat. Kazma's video installation ''Written'' was displayed in a small, dark room. Multiple screens showed the flickering flames of the burning page of a book, then the slow reappearance of the words on the page.
He was happy to be back in Istanbul. ''First and foremost it's a young country, and a young city,'' he said. (Half of Turkey's population is under 30.) ''That has an effect on the psyche. You can afford to make mistakes when you are young. You can take risks.''
There are also pitfalls. Many artists express anxiety about the rush of corporate money to the scene -- the Turkish government does not finance much of anything art-related -- complaining that it doesn't always go to the artists themselves, who desperately need money and spaces to experiment. There's very little art criticism in Turkey, everyone complains, and things are moving too fast without reflection. The intellectual versus commercial balance is out of whack. Ten years ago, according to Tayfun Serttas, the artist from SALT Galata, people used to talk about art until the morning. ''We used to process everything on a much more intellectual and conceptual level,'' he told me.
And sudden international interest in Turkish art, many suggest, can tempt artists to Orientalize themselves, to make their art explicitly ''Turkish'' from a Western perspective, in response to the needs of the market. Take the example of a recent hyperrealistic oil painting by Taner Ceylan, one of the most successful Turkish painters today, which depicts an Ottoman woman with a veil standing with her back to the famous Courbet painting of a naked woman with her legs spread. More than one Turkish artist saw Ceylan's piece as evidence of a bad, self-Orientalizing trend. It sold for $370,000 at Sotheby's.
''I am not interested in being labeled an artist belonging to a certain geography,'' Kazma said. ''Now that it is not kosher for a Western artist to have an Orientalist angle, sometimes we see works in exhibitions that have the Orientalist approach by non-Western artists. I never wanted to do that.''
In reality, Turkish contemporary art runs the gamut of mediums and ideas. Some argue that there's nothing distinctively Turkish about Turkish art; for a long time Turks were taught to imitate the West. Turkish modern art looks a lot like Western modern art, much to the dismay of international art experts looking for something exotic. What is real Turkish culture anyway? It's not harems and fezzes -- that's Ottoman. One gallerist said she wasn't even sure what ''Turkish'' art would look like.
While most Turkish contemporary art deals with universal themes, some of the political works have been specific to modern Turkey -- Ataturk, the army -- and don't always translate abroad. One artist argued that Turks should be responding to the neoliberal capitalist age, not to Turkey's era of military coups and authoritarianism.
Kutlug Ataman, the most famous Turkish artist in the world, sees a different shortcoming in Turkish art. A video artist and filmmaker, Ataman left the country when he was a teenager just after the 1980 military coup and returned to Istanbul for good almost 10 years ago. One British critic reviewing a 2010 retrospective of his work at the Istanbul Modern said that Ataman was ''one of the few artists of any nationality whose work I'd travel anywhere in the world to see.'' But that retrospective, ''The Enemy Inside Me,'' might have been the first time Turks encountered his work: a video of himself dressed in belly-dancer drag, dancing; four large-screen videos side by side of women speaking simultaneously about why they wear wigs; an interview with an elderly Armenian woman struggling to regain her memory.
Ataman said he always longed to return to Turkey, but he was skeptical of the art he sees in Istanbul: ''A great majority of the work consists of imitations of Western gestures. Their reference is New York and London.''
Ataman doesn't think Turkish artists have confronted the real source of their material, the thing they have to offer the world. He referred to an infamous recent incident, when a mob of Turkish men attacked gallery-hoppers who'd spilled onto the streets drinking alcohol in their fashionable clothes. The galleries were gentrifying the neighborhood, and the community, many Turks later told reporters, felt encroached upon and left out. To many other Turks, however, the attackers were religious types angered by the liberal lifestyle they'd been forced to witness: uncovered women, gay men, art, alcohol. In the center of Istanbul, Turkey's two worlds came face to face, in a microcosmic dance of the confrontation happening all over the world: the West and the East, the rich and the poor, the comfortable and the angry.
Ataman regards such a confrontation as a brush with the ''real Turkey.'' ''When I look at artists' practice in Europe, I am not inspired,'' he said. ''If the artists here can engage with Turkey, they will be ahead of the rest of the world. Because the world is this. This desert.''
Istanbul's art boom won't last forever. The economic crisis in the West and political instability in the East have caused the market to soften a bit, gallerists say. More important, perhaps, a majority of the buyers of Turkish art are Turks. And some of those new collectors know very little about art.
It's a challenge for gallerists like Sylvia Kouvali, 30, whose international gallery, Rodeo, which represents acclaimed Turkish artists like Gulsun Karamustafa, Banu Cennetoglu and Emre Huner, as well as established foreign artists like James Richards, Haris Epaminonda and Iman Issa, is often cited by foreign observers as the city's best. Kouvali, who is Greek, sells 90 percent of the gallery's works at art fairs abroad. Inexperienced Turkish collectors don't always appreciate her artists.
And as Ataman's story also suggested, it isn't easy being a gallery owner in a conservative Istanbul neighborhood. Rodeo opened six years ago in Galata, across from the Irmak Meat and Chicken store, a barbershop and a teahouse where men sit and smoke and watch the colorful gallery-hoppers with heavy eyes.
One evening, at an opening for Gulsun Karamustafa, the Rodeo crowd smoked outside, so as not to break the country's new antismoking laws, but drank inside, so as not to anger the locals. Since the attack on the galleries, undercover cops had taken to shadowing the parties. Kouvali forgot to give the cops a heads-up about her event, and a broad man wearing hoop earrings and red pants, looking like an '80s break dancer, walked into the gallery and put down his card. ''You didn't call us,'' he said, looking hurt. He was an odd undercover cop, though in his efforts to resemble the creatively dressed gallerygoers, he looked unlike any Turkish man I'd ever seen. His partner, dressed in an Adidas sweatsuit, came in after him. ''We're here to protect you,'' he said gravely. The ''real'' Turkey often comes in the form of a paternalistic police force.
But Kouvali is committed to Istanbul and to the community that has developed around Rodeo, which spans from Cairo to New York. ''Just as to someone from New York, Athens or Istanbul is a periphery, for me, New York is a periphery,'' she said. ''Of course here I am sitting under a picture of Leo Castelli.'' She looked up at a photo of the New York gallerist and laughed. ''We learned from New York. But I am not of that place. Now everything is central and everything is the periphery. This is the doom of our time, the freedom and the possibility. You can do whatever you do anywhere, and people will come and find you.''
I met one of Kouvali's artists, Banu Cennetoglu, at a studio off Istiklal. Cennetoglu, tiny and friendly, works with photography and books. When she was young and living in Turkey, photography was about imitation, and she left to free herself, living in Paris and New York for years. ''It was hard to judge your own talents in this country,'' she said. Abroad, as an assignment photographer, she felt frustrated by the limits of photography and turned to other mediums. In the Venice Biennale in 2009, Cennetoglu presented some 450 of her own photographs in the form of a mail-order catalog, photos of everything from the twin towers burning to Cennetoglu herself.
Cennetoglu now runs a space called BAS in the neighborhood of Karakoy, where she displays her library of artist books. One of her recent projects involved printing the work of an Armenian artist whose graphic novel she found in a secondhand shop. Nothing like BAS had existed in Turkey before she set up the space. This was how far Turkey still had to go: where would a young artist have found artist books in Istanbul? At SALT's opening, as we stood in the gorgeous library full of art journals and magazines and books, a European friend wondered why they'd built a library in a space for exhibitions. It's because there aren't many libraries to be found.
In 2010, Cennetoglu organized a talk to discuss the work of an artists' collective called Koridor that was active from 1988 to the mid-'90s. Very few Turkish artists had ever heard of the group, but many people I spoke to recalled how important the event was to them. ''The talk recognized that there were some artist groups from the recent history,'' Cennetoglu said. ''It's important not to ignore them.''
Cennetoglu's projects reflect a movement in the art community now -- recovering the past, creating something solid. Unlike the old modernist Turkish painters, looking exclusively to the West, Turkish artists also hunger for knowledge of what came before them in Turkey. There's an imperative, conscious or not, to discover and solidify a real contemporary culture that is organic to Turkey, even as the country is integrated into the global system.
''This will become an international scene before it was even a Turkish one,'' said one very young artist who was working at Rodeo. ''It's like the hot money pouring into this country. When it goes, what will be left?''
One day in 2010, I attended an art auction at a Swissotel in the center of Istanbul. The house sold mostly modern art, with a smattering of contemporary pieces. The room was packed. Young men in expensive, untucked button-downs, the weekend wear of investment bankers, sat in groups of five, talking loudly. They looked like frat boys at a fashion show.
Halfway through the event, the auctioneer arrived at an Erol Akyavas painting, the showcase piece of the evening, one of the few Turkish works that had a vaguely Islamic theme. Multiple bidders quickly took the price into the high six digits. We all felt where things were headed. The auctioneer announced, ''One million,'' and held up his gavel showily. When the gavel fell, the room broke out in applause.
The digital counter, however, did not have seven digits. A girl scrawled a large golden No. 1 and, doing her best Vanna White, held it up in front of the other six digits. The counter flipped to zeros: 1,000,000. A collector held up his camera phone and took a picture.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SCENES FROM A SCENE: THE EMERGING ART WORLD IN ISTANBUL. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AHMET POLAT) (MM40
MM41)
ISTIKLAL CADDESI, THE CENTRAL PEDESTRIAN STRIP. (MM43)
 THE ISTANBUL MODERN. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMBROISE TEZENAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM44) MAPS (MM45) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WRITERS (86%); FILM (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); INTERIOR DECORATING (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); SMOKING (71%); BUILDING SUPPLY (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (68%); ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (61%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (97%) NEW YORK, USA (85%) TURKEY (97%); UNITED STATES (85%); ARMENIA (79%); EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



502 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Vertigo In the Markets: Buy

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
WHILE the economy remains stubbornly sluggish and home sales nationwide continue to sag, Manhattan's real estate market has largely stabilized, with apartments in some neighborhoods selling for prices not seen since the headiest days of the boom.
But on the road to recovery, one segment of the market has outpaced the rest: ultraluxury, which analysts roughly define as properties costing $7 million and up. At these lofty heights, there was only the slightest of hiccups after the crash, and in the ensuing years, values have soared, with some apartments doubling in price.
Normally, that news would mean rising prices in every other segment of the market, from the tiniest starter studios to family-size four-bedroom co-ops. But that is not happening, even with interest rates at record lows and prices considered reasonable by Manhattan standards. 
''There is a greater disconnect between the very top of the market and everything else than I have ever seen in my 25 years in the business,'' said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel.
Part of the reason for this, brokers and analysts say, is that the wealthiest buyers are immune to practical matters like stricter lending standards and shrunken Wall Street bonuses.
In the last three years there has also been a dry spell in new construction, and for those with money to burn, the limited inventory has stoked demand. And with New York now seen as a refuge during uncertain times, international buyers are helping to drive the prices ever higher.
''Most people would say that the top end of the market is bulletproof,'' said Pamela Liebman, the president of the Corcoran Group, ''and that buyers at this end don't have the same sensitivities as the rest of the market and their confidence does not wane. There is a reason that Hermes has a waiting list for belts and bags.''
Defining ultraluxury is not an exact science.
''When I started,'' Mr. Miller said, '' 'luxury' meant the building had a doorman. Now, because luxury has become generic, they have had to add the adjective ultra.''
Generally, brokers agree that anything priced above $7 million fits the bill. Mr. Miller compared the sales at the top 5 percent of the market -- apartments priced over $6 million -- with those at the bottom 5 percent -- apartments priced below $300,000 -- over the last decade. After adjusting for inflation, he found that the value gap between the most and the least expensive properties has never been wider.
''It seems to be part of a wider global phenomenon, where there is an ever greater concentration of wealth at the upper echelons,'' he said.
Many moderately priced properties sold last year for roughly the same price that they brought from 2006 to 2008. Mr. Miller described a one-bedroom at 360 East 72nd Street as typical. The owners paid $770,000 for it in 2006 and sold it last year for $750,000, about a 2 percent loss. Meanwhile, a four-bedroom at 151 East 58th Street, bought in 2005 for $13 million, sold five years later for $17.75 million, a 36 percent profit.
The most expensive apartments constitute only a fraction of the market, but the impact of their rising value is greater than just the eye-popping sums they command. Along with the surge in demand for lavish prewar co-ops, the success of developments like Superior Ink in Greenwich Village, and 15 Central Park West and the Laureate on the Upper West Side, makes it all the more likely that future developers will choose luxury over affordability.
In the 1980s, it was rental high-rises like those dotting the Upper East Side that appealed to developers. While they often offered some good-sized apartments, they were designed to accommodate as many apartments as possible. Operating under a different mindset, developers of those buildings often put fitness centers on the top floor, whereas that space now would be reserved for a penthouse getting top dollar.
The condos that have opened in the last few years often have larger apartments and fewer units. They are aimed squarely at the rich, perhaps none more so than the new Extell development at 157th West 57th Street, called One57.
When it opens next year, it will be the city's tallest residential building, at 90 stories, and the most expensive, with the cheapest unit reportedly at $7 million. Fewer than 100 residences will be available.
New York has always had its share of trophy properties, but Ms. Liebman identified the $45 million sale in 2003 of an apartment in the Time Warner Center as the one that ushered prices into the stratosphere. Whereas eight-figure deals were a rarity as recently as five years ago, hardly a week went by last year without a sale over $10 million. The gilt-edged properties were spread across the city, including penthouses in TriBeCa and Union Square, co-ops on the East Side and new condos on the West Side.
When the banker Sanford I. Weill sold an apartment at 15 Central Park West late last year with an asking price of $88 million -- more than $13,000 per square foot -- real estate executives said the deal signaled another leap in the kinds of prices that are possible. Mr. Weill very likely doubled his 2007 investment of $43,687,751.
The impact was immediate. For instance the reported asking price for the penthouse at One57, first set at $90 million, soon neared $115 million. Still, at $7,000 per square foot, a certain kind of shopper might consider it a bargain.
''Even if you are spending $40 million, it is comforting to know that there are other people spending that kind of money as well,'' said Kelly Kennedy Mack, the president of the Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group, who has been a consultant to top-selling Manhattan developments including One57. ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAGIC TOUCH: Homes at two recent Robert A. M. Stern designs, 15 Central Park West, far left, and Superior Ink, are among the city's most expensive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT, RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 RIGHT, MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



503 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: The Week Ahead: Feb. 12 - Feb. 18

 BODY:
Film
Neil Genzlinger
You probably don't think much about those cargo containers that you see stacked up on ships, piers and freight trains. But the people who manage the harbors of New York and New Jersey have been thinking about them a lot in recent years, because the growth in cargo-container shipping has created an expensive problem for them: containers are sometimes stacked so high that big ships can't pass under the Bayonne Bridge, which connects New Jersey and Staten Island. A plan to raise the bridge by 64 feet is on the boards, with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey pledging $1 billion for the project. And that is just one small consequence of container shipping worldwide. ''THE FORGOTTEN SPACE,'' a film by Allan Sekula and Noel Burch that opens on Wednesday at Anthology Film Archives, seeks to explore the changes that this type of shipping has wrought. 
The film, a sort of poetic essay, looks not just at the movement of the containers across the sea, but also at the production system that fills them, its economic impact and our changing view of the sea itself -- the ''forgotten space'' of the title. ''Our premise is that the sea remains the crucial space of globalization,'' the directors say in their notes on the film. ''Nowhere else is the disorientation, violence and alienation of contemporary capitalism more manifest, but this truth is not self-evident and must be approached as a puzzle or mystery, a problem to be solved.'' 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village; (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A view of a container ship in ''The Forgotten Space,'' a documentary, about the impact of cargo-container shipping worldwide, opening Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOC.EYE FILM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTAINERIZATION (91%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); CALENDARS (86%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); TRAINS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



504 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: War's Risks Shift To Contractors

BYLINE: By ROD NORDLAND; Taimoor Shah contributed reporting from Kandahar, Afghanistan.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Even dying is being outsourced here.
This is a war where traditional military jobs, from mess hall cooks to base guards and convoy drivers, have increasingly been shifted to the private sector. Many American generals and diplomats have private contractors for their personal bodyguards. And along with the risks have come the consequences: More civilian contractors working for American companies than American soldiers died in Afghanistan last year for the first time during the war.
American employers here are under no obligation to publicly report the deaths of their employees and frequently do not. While the military announces the names of all its war dead, private companies routinely notify only family members. Most of the contractors die unheralded and uncounted -- and in some cases, leave their survivors uncompensated.
''By continuing to outsource high-risk jobs that were previously performed by soldiers, the military, in effect, is privatizing the ultimate sacrifice,'' said Steven L. Schooner, a law professor at George Washington University who has studied the civilian casualties issue. 
Last year, at least 430 employees of American contractors were reported killed in Afghanistan: 386 working for the Defense Department, 43 for the United States Agency for International Development and one for the State Department, according to data provided by the American Embassy in Kabul and publicly available in part from the United States Department of Labor.
By comparison, 418 American soldiers died in Afghanistan last year, according to Defense Department statistics compiled by icasualties.org, an independent organization that monitors war deaths.
That trend has been growing for the past several years in Afghanistan, and it parallels a similar trend in Iraq, where contractor deaths exceeded military deaths as long ago as 2009. In Iraq, however, that took place as the number of American troops was being drastically reduced until their complete withdrawal at the end of last year. And last year, more soldiers than private contractors died in Iraq (54 compared with 41, according to Labor Department figures).
Experts who have studied the phenomenon say that because many contractors do not comply with even the current, scanty reporting requirements, the true number of private contractor deaths may be far higher. ''No one believes we're underreporting military deaths,'' Mr. Schooner said. ''Everyone believes we're underreporting contractor deaths.''
Qais Mansoori, 20, may have been among the uncounted. An Afghan interpreter employed by Mission Essential Personnel, a leading provider of interpreters in Afghanistan, Mr. Mansoori was killed along with five other interpreters when Taliban insurgents overran the military base where the interpreters were staying in the Mirwais district of Kandahar Province in July 2010.
That attack, typically, was scantily reported, since no soldiers died -- although the death toll was 17, including an unidentified American civilian, according to Afghan officials and Mr. Mansoori's friends and family.
Under the federal Defense Base Act, American defense contractors are obliged to report the war zone deaths and injuries of their employees -- including subcontractors and foreign workers -- to the Department of Labor, and to carry insurance that will provide the employees with medical care and compensation. In the case of foreign employees, which many of the dead were, survivors generally receive a death benefit equal to half of the employee's salary for life; American employees get even more.
Mr. Mansoori's brother, Mohammad, 35, an employee of a mine-removal charity in Afghanistan, said his brother's employer, Mission Essential Personnel, promptly contacted the family and made a lump sum payment of $10,004, never mentioning the lifetime annuity to which they were entitled -- which given Mr. Mansoori's salary of $800 a month would have been closer to $150,000 over his survivors' lifetimes. ''I wish he was still here to look after my father and mother,'' Mohammad Mansoori said. Their father is blind, and Qais Mansoori was his parents' sole support, he said.
A spokesman for Mission Essential Personnel, Sean Rushton, disputed that, saying that his company has been making biweekly payments of $190 to Mr. Mansoori's family and will continue doing so for 29 years. The $10,004 lump sum payment was a voluntary death gratuity paid by the company, Mr. Rushton said.
There were 113,491 employees of defense contractors in Afghanistan as of January 2012, compared with about 90,000 American soldiers, according to Defense Department statistics. Of those, 25,287, or about 22 percent of the employees, were American citizens, with 47 percent Afghans and 31 percent from other countries.
The bulk of the known contractor deaths are concentrated among a handful of major companies, particularly those providing interpreters, drivers, security guards and other support personnel who are particularly vulnerable to attacks.
The biggest contractor in terms of war zone deaths is apparently the defense giant L-3 Communications. If L-3 were a country, it would have the third highest loss of life in Afghanistan as well as in Iraq; only the United States and Britain would exceed it in fatalities.
Over the past 10 years, L-3 and its subsidiaries, including Titan Corporation and MPRI Inc., had at least 370 workers killed and 1,789 seriously wounded or injured through the end of 2011 in Iraq and Afghanistan, records show. In a statement, a spokeswoman for L-3, Jennifer Barton, said: ''L-3 is proud to have the opportunity to support the U.S. and coalition efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. We mourn the loss of life of these dedicated men and women.''
Other American companies with a high number of fatalities are Supreme Group, a catering company, with 241 dead through the end of 2011; Service Employees International, another catering company, with 125 dead; and security companies like DynCorps (101 dead), Aegis (86 dead) and Hart Group (63 dead). In all, according to Labor Department data, 64 American companies have lost more than seven employees each in the past 10 years.
The American dead have included people like James McLaughlin, 55, who trained pilots on a contract for MPRI and was killed by a rogue Afghan pilot who also killed eight American soldiers last April; and Todd Walker, Michael Clawson and James Scott Ozier, employees of AAR Airlift, who were killed in a helicopter crash in Helmand Province last month for which Taliban insurgents claimed responsibility.
For every contractor who is killed, many more are seriously wounded. According to the Labor Department's statistics, 1,777 American contractors in Afghanistan were injured or wounded seriously enough to miss more than four days of work last year.
Marcie Hascall Clark began the Defense Base Act Compensation Blog after her husband, Merlin, a former Navy explosives ordnance disposal expert, was injured in 2003 while working for an American contractor. She and her husband have spent the past seven years fighting for hundreds of thousands of dollars in disability payments and medical compensation. ''It was quite a shock to learn how little my husband's body, mind and future were worth,'' she said.
Postscript: February 26, 2012
A front-page article last Sunday reported on the deaths of contractors in Afghanistan who work for American companies, noting that most die uncounted and that sometimes their survivors are uncompensated. The family of one contractor who was killed, Qais Mansoori, an Afghan interpreter, criticized Mr. Mansoori's employer, Mission Essential Personnel, saying that while the company promptly made a lump sum payment, it never mentioned a lifetime annuity to which the family was entitled. The article quoted a spokesman for Mission Essential who disputed that, saying the company had been making biweekly payments to the family and would continue to do so for 29 years.
After the article was published, the Mission Essential spokesman, Sean Ruston, contacted The Times to say that in addition to his initial rebuttal he could also provide documentation of the payments. When The Times contacted the family about the documents, a family member confirmed that Mission Essential Personnel had indeed been paying the family the annuity. ''We are satisfied with the company,'' the family member said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Contractors from the United States and other countries were wounded in an attack last year in Logar Province, Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UMIT BEKTAS/REUTERS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRENDS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); TALIBAN (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); STATISTICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

COMPANY: MISSION ESSENTIAL PERSONNEL LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541930 TRANSLATION & INTERPRETATION SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012



505 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Looking to 70 1/2, a Magic Number in Retirement Plans

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
HOWEVER stout your tax defenses, there is almost no avoiding the levy against retirement plans for the year you reach 70 1/2, when you must start withdrawing cash from I.R.A.'s and 401(k) plans and paying ordinary income tax on it.
But you can still improve your chances of keeping the present bite to a minimum, all while planning sensibly for future years and, quite likely, for your beneficiaries.
For example, those who turn 70 1/2 in any given year have the option of waiting until April 1 of the next year to start withdrawals. But opinions differ about whether to do so. 
''The general rule is you might as well take it early in the year and get it over with,'' said Natalie B. Choate, an estate planner specializing in retirement benefits at the law firm of Nutter McClennen & Fish in Boston. Otherwise, you might forget -- or even die, which is a particular problem if you haven't imposed any intended restrictions on your heirs.
Moreover, deferring the 2012 required minimum distribution means that you'll be paying tax on two of them next year. This might not only push you into a higher bracket, but also into possibly higher tax rates -- if the government decides to raise them.
On the other hand, Robert J. DiQuollo, chief executive and senior financial adviser at Brinton Eaton, a wealth manager based in Madison, N.J., counsels newbies to hold off taking distributions, especially this year, when a national election looms.
''Wait until December and see what's going on'' with respect to taxes for 2013, he advised, after the scheduled year-end expiration of the tax cuts originally enacted by President George W. Bush.
Besides, Mr. DiQuollo added, ''why not get the extra 10 months of tax deferral?''
In addition to a possible increase in ordinary tax rates, the 3.8 percent Medicare payroll tax will start next year to apply to capital gains, dividends and other investment income for joint filers with at least $250,000 in income. Retirement distributions are excluded from the Medicare tax but still must be included in calculations of the $250,000 threshold.
Of course, either strategy -- immediate payout or deferral -- involves market risk. While withdrawal in February means that money won't benefit from any stock or bond gains later in the year, waiting until December could expose it to any losses.
You'll also need to decide whether to take your distribution in one lump sum or spread it into perhaps quarterly or monthly payouts. Choosing installments, as most people do, amounts to a variation on the risk-minimizing, dollar-cost-averaging strategy widely employed in buying securities.
CATHARINE V. FAIRLEY, a tax and financial planner at Draper & McGinley in Frederick, Md., also suggested that those with relatively low earned taxable incomes keep an eye on how additional income from required minimum distributions, or R.M.D.'s, will affect taxable Social Security benefits as well as state taxes. That is especially the case for those with significant municipal bond income from other states.
''R.M.D.'s may push you into paying additional federal income taxes on your Social Security benefits as well as unexpected state income taxes,'' Ms. Fairley said.
Calculating R.M.D.'s is fairly simple and is usually done by the institution where you have your account. Divide your Dec. 31 balance by what the Internal Revenue Service calls the distribution period, which represents the number of years that at least one of the two people in a couple is expected to be alive. For example, the uniform lifetime table shows a distribution period of 26.5 years for a 71-year-old married to a 61-year-old.
If you have more than one I.R.A. other than Roth I.R.A.'s, which don't have required minimum distributions, you need to calculate the distribution separately for each but are then permitted to withdraw the total from any single source or a combination. So if you have four I.R.A.'s, you can withdraw your total R.M.D. from one of them.
If you have more than 401(k), however, you must take a minimum distribution from each of them.
You may withdraw more than is required, of course, as many people do for living expenses, but an excess amount in one year cannot be applied toward a subsequent year's obligation.
Ms. Fairley recommends that taxpayers review how close they are to paying tax in the next higher bracket -- or perhaps even the alternative minimum tax -- and increase their R.M.D. by the difference. Accelerating income into the current year makes full use of the lower bracket.
''Some taxpayers think they are saving taxes by deferring what they can,'' she declared. ''In reality, there may be unique opportunities each year to take some income below the next marginal or A.M.T. rate, particularly in light of possible higher tax rates in the next few years.''
Minimum distributions are generally not required for 401(k)'s at an employer for whom you are still working, so long as you don't own more than 5 percent of the company.
There is also an alternative mortality table, producing smaller payouts, for account owners with spouses more than 10 years younger than they are.
And two recent tax breaks are no more. One was the waiving of required minimum distributions for 2009, when stock prices sank in the recession.
The other break, which expired at the end of 2011, allowed people at least 70 1/2 to donate up to $100,000 to charity from retirement accounts without any tax liability. Ms. Choate, noting that the charitable break has been restored retroactively three times in the past six years, is advising clients to proceed with donations in the hope of another restoration.
She also suggested gaining a small edge by using distributions to pay estimated income taxes, having the money directed to the I.R.S. late in the year but being credited for having been paid throughout the year.
You can also take money from a retirement account before the age of 59 1/2 without incurring the usual 10 percent penalty. This can be set up under I.R.S. Rule 72(t), by agreeing to withdraw ''equally substantial'' amounts based on various factors over at least five years or until reaching 59 1/2, whichever comes last.
With virtually all R.M.D.'s, however, there are beneficiaries to consider. Contrary to what many people assume, required distributions alone, although based on actuarial tables, will not consume your whole tax-deferred retirement nest egg unless market performance is extremely dire.
Specialists underscore the importance of paying close attention to beneficiaries, both by naming them on a custodian's form -- a move that trumps a will -- by keeping your choices up to date and, perhaps, by placing conditions on how they are to receive and/or even spend their inheritance.
FOR 401(k)'s, nonspouse beneficiaries can benefit from a rule change affecting plans that offer only lump-sum distributions. Since 2010, those beneficiaries have had the option of making a direct rollover of such plans into an inherited I.R.A., so they can stretch out the payout. Without the stretch, they would lose the chance for long-term, tax-deferred compounded growth, having to withdraw the money immediately or within five years and probably suffer severe tax consequences.
You can also roll 401(k) or other employer-based plans from former jobs into an I.R.A.. But Ms. Fairley recommends that you do this only after you have finished any Roth conversions you plan to do with your I.R.A.'s; 401(k) balances are not included in the calculation of taxable I.R.A. conversions.
Ed Slott, a retirement expert and author of ''Parlay Your I.R.A. Into a Family Fortune,'' noted that employers ''don't want the record-keeping headache of having to keep track of the beneficiaries of deceased ex-employees for payout purposes.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 26, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Your Taxes report on Feb. 12 about tax planning for retirement accounts referred incorrectly to a federal tax break that expired at the end of 2011. It allowed people at least age 70 1/2 to donate up to $100,000 from an I.R.A. to charity without any tax liability; it did not let people of any age make such donations and avoid only capital gains liability. The article also omitted a 2010 rule change affecting nonspouse beneficiaries of 401(k) plans that offer only lump-sum distributions. Since 2010, those beneficiaries have had the option of making a direct rollover of such plans into an inherited I.R.A., so they can stretch out the payout.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Natalie Choate, an estate planning lawyer, says that when it comes to required withdrawals from I.R.A.'s and 401(k)'s, the general guideline has been to make them early in the year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MEDICARE (86%); TAX RELIEF (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); ELECTIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CORPORATE TAX (63%)

COMPANY: NUTTER MCCLENNEN & FISH LLP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (50%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2012



506 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 31A

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Auto Plants Hold Answer To What Eastwood Meant

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Let's invite Clint Eastwood to the Chicago Automobile Show and see if a dumb argument breaks out over the role of government.
The nation's largest auto show opened Friday, and the throngs will include political conservatives. Some were clearly outraged over Chrysler's ''Halftime in America'' Super Bowl ad featuring Mr. Eastwood, the Oscar-winning Hollywood tough guy and California conservative.
They saw it as paying homage to President Obama for bailing out the auto industry. The blogosphere, talk radio and cable television were rife with attacks over that familiar raspy Eastwood voice heralding an auto industry comeback, bemoaning the many jobless Americans and chiding ''the fog, division, discord and blame'' clouding our ability to chart a course. 
''It was meant to be a message about job growth and the spirit of America,'' Mr. Eastwood said after the ruckus erupted, assuring that he was not in the political camp of Mr. Obama.
But judging by my calls from talk-show bookers, critics won't leave it alone. So if they go to the auto show, they also should head to Ford's South Side plant and 90 miles northwest to the Chrysler plant in Belvidere.
Ford did not take bailout money but benefited from an industry rebound, as underscored by Carlo Bishop, the president of United Auto Workers Local 551.
He represents more than 3,000 members and a plant running two shifts a day to produce the Taurus, Lincoln MKS luxury sedan and Explorer sport utility vehicle. An additional 1,200 jobs will be created by mid-April, when a third shift is added to refashion the Taurus and Explorer for police departments nationwide.
Mr. Bishop's Belvidere counterpart, George Welitschinsky of Local 1268, is sitting pretty, too. His plant employs 2,700 to make the Dodge Dart and Jeep Compass and Liberty models, and will soon add 1,800 workers. During dark days in 2008, 1,000 workers there were shown the exit.
The two distinct successes -- one without direct government help, the other with emergency aid from the Obama administration and Illinois tax breaks -- speak to the real message of the Eastwood ad: a case for teamwork, investing in workers and smart government assistance.
Yes, there was symbolism that perhaps fueled the ire of conservatives, whose rightful skepticism can turn into needless disdain of all government. The front man for the ad urging collective action and community was a cultural hero of theirs who portrayed the prototypical angry and alienated individual during the presidency of their beloved Ronald Reagan.
He wasn't the fictional, merciless Harold (Dirty Harry) Callahan of the San Francisco Police Department. He wasn't suggesting that bailed-out autoworkers were leeching off taxpayers.
He was espousing sacrifice and joint effort to tackle our hefty predicaments. They include mediocre schools, stratospheric pension liabilities, budget deficits, crumbling infrastructure and flagging economic development.
There may be signs of hope.
For example, officials of eight federal departments met in Chicago two weeks ago with Karen Freeman-Wilson, the Harvard-educated new mayor of Gary, Ind., and members of regional planning groups, including the Metropolitan Planning Council.
The goal of the rare interagency gathering was to coordinate a way to help down-in-the-dumps Gary, whose population of 80,000 represents a 22 percent decline in the past decade.
They seek to marry government, the private sector and nonprofits to revive the needy northern Indiana city and region, said Peter Skosey, vice president of the Metropolitan Planning Council. Independently, Ms. Freeman-Wilson is receiving pro bono counsel from former Mayor Richard M. Daley, who knows about remaking a city.
Meanwhile, Patrick Fitzgerald, Chicago's top federal prosecutor, spoke about crime at an Amherst College alumni gathering on Thursday and mentioned a regular meeting he attends of all the key state, city and Cook County law enforcement agencies to deal with notorious gang members.
Any assumption about inevitable friction among the agencies is folderol, he said. They dissect their latest list of the top 20 bad guys in Chicago and constructively plot how to nab them.
It's the sort of coordination that is lacking in Congress and state legislatures and what the Chrysler ad is actually all about.
It's why a new Taurus or Dodge Dart will likely survive longer than many incumbent politicians, even in gerrymandered and seemingly cozy districts.
If you go, enjoy the show.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (76%); SEDANS (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (69%); POLICE FORCES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%)

PERSON: CLINT EASTWOOD (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



507 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL THE FORECLOSURE SETTLEMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Too many unanswered questions, and too little relief

 BODY:
The $26 billion foreclosure settlement between the big banks and federal and state officials is a wrist slap compared with the economic damage wrought by the banks in the housing bubble and bust, and the hardships faced by the 4 million homeowners who have lost their homes and 3.3 million more who are in or close to foreclosure.
The big redeeming feature is that the deal was crafted to allow for further investigation into mortgage abuses that led to the financial meltdown. And President Obama has vowed to follow it up with an expanded inquiry that is supposed to produce broader accountability and a far larger payout. He has to make good on that promise. 
At best, this round of relief will reach about two million former and current homeowners. Under the agreement, banks will grant some $10 billion worth of principal reduction, $3 billion in refinancings and $7 billion in other mortgage relief, like forbearance for unemployed borrowers, covering roughly one million borrowers in total. Another $1.5 billion will be cash payments of about $2,000 to some 750,000 borrowers who were treated unfairly in foreclosures from 2008 through 2011.
And $3.5 billion will go to state and federal governments for what has been described as resources for legal aid and other counseling for borrowers facing foreclosure. Such aid is vitally important, but it appears that the earmarked money also could be used to plug state budget holes, rather than empower homeowners in their fights against the banks. That would be a mistake.
What do banks get in exchange for the relief? The answer, in short, is a sweet deal.
The banks did not get the blanket release they originally sought from legal liability for all manner of mortgage misconduct. But the settlement still shields them from state and federal civil lawsuits for most foreclosure abuses, including the wrongful denial of loan modifications, excessive late fees that enriched the banks but could make it impossible for borrowers to catch up on late payments, and conflicts of interest that led banks to favor foreclosures over modifications. Going forward, the banks will have to adhere to tougher standards for servicing loans and executing foreclosures. But past sins in servicing and foreclosure are largely absolved.
The banks are not off the hook for criminal prosecutions related to the mortgage mess or for private lawsuits. They are also not off the hook for wrongdoing in their aggressive pooling of mortgages into securities and other practices that inflated the bubble. Thanks for the settlement's narrower legal releases goes to New York's attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, and a handful of other state attorneys general, who refused to accept a deal that would have blocked further legal action.
Which brings us back to the question of whether a new investigation will indeed get off the ground. We are skeptical. The Obama administration squandered several months resisting Mr. Schneiderman's insistence on a broader investigation, raising questions about its willingness to now get tough with the banks and bankers. As a practical matter, that delay has allowed some potential violations to draw closer to expiration under statutes of limitation.
We applauded President Obama's decision to appoint Mr. Schneiderman as a co-chairman of the new investigation, along with officials from the Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other agencies. But there still needs to be a huge commitment of resources or the effort will never get to the bottom of the wrongdoing.
In an election year, the White House clearly wants credit for doing more to help homeowners. The settlement, properly enforced, could be a step in the right direction. But it is not nearly enough. President Obama will need to press his own administration hard to deliver an unsparing follow-on investigation that results in more clarity, more money and more justice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); LEGAL AID (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



508 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL THE FORECLOSURE SETTLEMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: What Homeowners Need Now

 BODY:
Under the new foreclosure settlement, the banks have six to nine months to determine who is eligible for relief and, in all, have three years to distribute the aid. Millions of struggling homeowners -- and the still fragile economy -- need more help right now. 
The best solutions are loan modifications that reduce principal balances because a lower overall debt burden both restores equity and reduces monthly payments. But the settlement will help only a small slice of the millions of Americans who are behind in their payments and in or near foreclosure, or the many millions more who are current but ''underwater'' and at high risk of default.
The best way to get help to many of them is through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-run mortgage companies, which hold roughly 30 million mortgage loans, none of which are covered in last week's settlement.
The Obama administration has recently increased the incentives for the companies to write down the troubled loans on their books. But in the past, the agencies' regulator has resisted calls to engage in principal write-downs because he fears they may incur undue losses.
That makes no economic sense, because defaults and foreclosures are generally far costlier than timely principal reductions. If the regulator continues to balk, President Obama needs to directly challenge his stubbornness, and, if necessary, fight for legislation to compel the agencies' cooperation.
Another important form of relief is refinancing, which allows homeowners stuck in high-rate loans to qualify for a lower rate and lower monthly payments.
The administration has put forth far-reaching proposals to help homeowners qualify for refinancing. But the proposals would be paid for, in part, by a new tax on banks. That requires Congressional approval, which Republicans are unlikely to provide.
The White House needs to challenge Republicans to explain why they are more interested in protecting the banks than protecting homeowners -- and challenge them to come up with a better way to pay for the necessary relief.
Too much time has already been wasted. Foreclosures will not be stanched and house prices will not stabilize without more help.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); APPROVALS (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



509 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2012 words

HEADLINE: Restore a Gateway To Dignity

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
It's time to address the calamity that is Penn Station.
Nearly a half-century has passed since the destruction of the great 1910 station designed by Charles Follen McKim of McKim, Mead & White, a ''monumental act of vandalism,'' as an editorial in The New York Times called the demolition in 1963. A vast steel, travertine and granite railway palace of the people, the old Pennsylvania Station had declined by the end into a symbol of bygone Gilded Age opulence. It was replaced by Penn Plaza and Madison Square Garden, Modernist mediocrities, erected to serve real estate interests, with a new subterranean Penn Station entombed below.
Some 600,000 commuters, riding Amtrak, Long Island Rail Road and New Jersey Transit, now suffer Penn Station every day. That makes it probably the busiest transit hub in the Western world, busier than Heathrow Airport in London, busier than Newark, La Guardia and Kennedy airports combined.
To pass through Grand Central Terminal, one of New York's exalted public spaces, is an ennobling experience, a gift. To commute via the bowels of Penn Station, just a few blocks away, is a humiliation. 
What is the value of architecture? It can be measured, culturally, humanely and historically, in the gulf between these two places.
Long trumpeted as a solution to the blight that is Penn Station has been the plan, well more than a decade old, to transform the present James A. Farley Post Office, opposite Madison Square Garden on Eighth Avenue, into a new train hub. The project is named for Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York senator who championed the idea before his death in 2003. It is a first step.
But the only way to fix Penn properly is to move Madison Square Garden.
Why? Because the open secret about the Moynihan plan is that Amtrak alone would move across Eighth Avenue. Long Island Rail Road, New Jersey Transit and the subways wouldn't budge. And only 30,000 of those 600,000 people who use Penn Station each day take Amtrak, never mind all the subway riders passing through.
That's right: 95 percent of commuters will still have to contend with Penn even when the Moynihan plan is realized.
It's true that the Moynihan plan will eventually improve a few access routes to subways and commuter trains. But it will add no new tracks and have limited effect on the congestion and misery of Penn Station. New tracks aside, the challenge is at the bare minimum to bring light and air into this underground purgatory and, beyond that, to create for millions of people a new space worthy of New York, a civic hub in the spirit of the great demolished one, more attuned to the city's aspirations and democratic ideals.
Amtrak, New Jersey Transit and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority are about to undertake yet another study of how best to accomplish this after the Moynihan plan is completed. Building a train hub that brings a little pleasure underground is possible, as Rem Koolhaas demonstrated with his tram tunnel in The Hague. But that complex project, which took forever and overcame numerous political hurdles even in the Netherlands, is small and simple compared with Penn Station, where the Garden presents an insurmountable obstacle.
This is about more than tracks and trains and redecorating. It's about social equity and New York's ability to compete with other global capitals in the 21st century. We have become a city too cynical about big change, resigned to the impossibility of unraveling bureaucratic entanglements, beholden to private interests, inured to commercialism and compromise.
We depend on developers to improve neighborhoods, and at the same time we waste unconscionable amounts of public money on architectural follies like the much-delayed World Trade Center PATH station, which is projected, even after ground zero is fully developed, to serve only perhaps 60,000 riders and whose exploding cost is already approaching $4 billion, a scandal still waiting to dawn on New Yorkers.
Meanwhile infrastructural crises that affect millions of people a day drag on, among them our abysmal airports; noisy, erratic subways; lack of high-speed rail; and Penn Station. No other great city in the world would abide a station like it.
Janette Sadik-Khan, the city's transportation commissioner, told me the other day that she was looking at the potential traffic impact of a concept floated by, among others, Vishaan Chakrabarti, a planner and real estate professor at Columbia University. The idea would be to close 33rd Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues to automobile traffic, creating a pedestrian zone that would improve access to Penn Station and help with light and air. It may turn out to be the only practical move, in conjunction with the Moynihan project.
But here's another thought.
In his State of the State address last month Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo proposed redeveloping 18 acres on the Far West Side of Midtown occupied since the 1980s by the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. He announced that the Genting Group of Malaysia had agreed to pay $4 billion to build a new convention center, the country's largest, at a racetrack casino hard by Kennedy Airport in Jamaica, Queens.
The proposal raises all sorts of issues, for Jamaica and Manhattan, which need to be carefully unpacked in due time. Among them, New York ought to demand direct train service linking Kennedy to Midtown in return for all those billions of dollars Genting has calculated it will rake in at the casino. As for the Javits site, the West Side is being rezoned and rebuilt for luxury apartment towers and enormous office buildings. It desperately needs more schools, green spaces, low- and mixed-income housing, a restoration of the street grid and enhancements to the waterfront, which the convention center has long blocked.
But demolishing the Javits Center also presents a possible solution to Penn Station.
The thought is: Move Madison Square Garden to the southern end of the Javits site, at 34th Street and 11th Avenue. That is a prime location in what is hoped to become the busy intersection of a new Midtown South. The state, in conjunction with the city, would provide the Garden's owners with a turnkey, or at least a very generous, deal: a new riverfront arena, partly financed by the substantial air rights gained in return for acquiring the Garden's present site.
The new arena, unlike the current Garden, would compete as an up-to-date sports and entertainment center with the one rising at Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn. It would stand at the northern culmination of the completed High Line, and at the doorstep of a redeveloped Hudson Yards, where the new extension of the No. 7 subway line from Times Square will stop. Generations of New York sports fans have attachments to the Garden, but it has been moved several times before. The present arena is a flimsy, aging eyesore, notwithstanding the millions that its owners have lately been pouring into refurbishment -- money that would have been amortized by the time a prospective new arena could be made ready.
Why should the public subsidize a private arena? To serve the larger public good: the money would go toward improving the lives of millions of New Yorkers and others who use Penn Station. Both the city and state have legal sticks to compel the Garden to move, among them a special permit the city grants, and could decline to renew, which allows the Garden to operate at its present site. But that route carries its own costs, political and financial.
The idea of moving the Garden west has come up before. There was the evolving plan that died some years ago to build a new Jets football stadium and shift the Garden to Hudson Yards as part of a bid for the Olympics. The football stadium was a nonstarter for Midtown, but a multiuse arena like the Garden is not a football stadium. It can be a decent urban neighbor and built largely underground to preserve the streetscape.
Then there was the more elaborate notion that collapsed a few years ago of its own weight, along with the economy and the political career of Gov. Eliot Spitzer. The owner of the Garden and Cablevision, the Dolan family, was by various accounts on board with this idea, which entailed going into the back, or western side, of the present Farley Post Office -- in effect moving the Garden behind the new Amtrak station when Farley becomes Moynihan.
Nonetheless skeptical about moving that one block away because so many Garden patrons enjoy going straight upstairs from the subways and commuter trains in Penn Station, the Garden's owners might not be blamed for dismissing yet another proposal to move even farther west.
But the glamour of a new arena alongside the High Line, with the boon of the No. 7 extension and the added benefit of dedicated bus service from Penn Station to 34th Street and 11th Avenue, which Ms. Sadik-Khan said is in the works, suggest what's possible.
I got a tour of Penn Station and the Farley Post Office the other day with Juliette Michaelson from the Regional Plan Association, which keeps tabs on the Moynihan project.
Phase 1, she said, should cost $267 million and take at least five or six years to complete. Bids have just come in. That phase will widen and lengthen pedestrian concourses in Penn Station to provide new exits and elevator access for overcrowded tracks. Rush-hour commuters need 10 to 12 minutes to reach faraway exits. The present station is an egregious firetrap. This phase will also provide new entrances to Penn Station from either side of the Farley Post Office staircase on Eighth Avenue.
Phase 2 will finally move Amtrak's ticket offices and waiting rooms into an atrium in the Farley Post Office. I was surprised, and suspect other New Yorkers will be too, to realize that pedestrians entering this future Moynihan Station, unless they elect to go out of their way and climb the front steps to pass through what will remain a post office, will circulate in and out of street-level passageways on either side of the grand staircase.
The 1912 Post Office facade -- also by McKim, Mead & White, with the ''Neither snow nor rain nor heat nor gloom'' inscription -- will then become the face of Amtrak. That will restore a superficial measure of the dignity to railway travel that was lost in 1963 when the old Pennsylvania Station was torn down. But the experience for most people using the building will not be like the glory of moving through Grand Central or the old Penn Station. Aesthetically, a top-ranking state official confided to me in all seriousness, the Moynihan project aspires to be more like the Frank R. Lautenberg Rail Station in Secaucus, N.J.
Years ago the critic Ada Louise Huxtable noted that at the turn of the last century the president of the Pennsylvania Railroad, Alexander Cassatt, wanted to build a hotel atop Penn Station to exploit valuable air rights. But his architect, McKim, talked him out of it. The railroad owed the city a ''thoroughly and distinctly monumental gateway,'' McKim argued. Idealism temporarily triumphed over commerce, until McKim's great building, across several troubled decades, became an increasingly rundown emblem of urban glory and gave way to an architecture of gloomy pragmatism and moneyed interests.
There is historic justice in trying to rectify a crime committed a half-century ago that galvanized the architectural preservation movement. ''One entered the city like a god; one scuttles in now like a rat,'' is the familiar lament from Vincent J. Scully Jr., the Yale architectural historian, about the difference between the former and present Penn Stations.
But history moves on, and New York remains vibrant because it is not stuck in the past. The lesson to be gleaned from the destruction of the old Penn Station is about the importance of preserving McKim's public-spirited ideal for urban splendor as much as it is about preserving venerable buildings.
And the argument to move the Garden now is about looking ahead toward a booming new West Side. A light-filled Penn Station, a monument to the city's best self and biggest dreams, should become its gateway.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Congestion and aesthetic blandness define Penn Station. Moving Madison Square Garden could clear the way for airy glory. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR1)
The original Pennsylvania Station (its waiting room at top) was razed in 1963. Its replacement (below during the morning rush) is much lamented. A plan to overhaul the current station by expanding into the James A. Farley Post Office could go even further. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM A COLLECTION OF THE NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY
 RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR26) GRAPHIC: Reimagining The West Side: The plan for Moynihan Station ultimately calls for moving Amtrak's ticket windows and waiting rooms from Penn Station into the James A. Farley Post Office across Eighth Avenue. But it will hardly affect 95 percent of the commuters who use Penn Station now. Here's a proposal to help. Move Madison Square Garden to the current site of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, which Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo imagines moving to Queens, and create a new light-filled Penn Station (AR26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); TRAINS (89%); VANDALISM (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (90%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



510 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Weighing In on the 'Callista'

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN

 BODY:
EARLIER this month, two mysterious phone calls came into the Toka Salon in Georgetown, a sparkling emporium that tends to the hair atop some of Washington's most powerful and prominent heads.
Told that the owner, Nuri Yurt, was with clients, both callers said they sought his opinion of Callista Gingrich's hair -- the strikingly perfect platinum bob, with the distinctive over-the-left-eye swoosh, that has increasingly captured the attention of hairdressers, journalists, and women of a similar demographic worldwide.
Both times, the callers declined to leave a message, saying they would call back -- creating a moment of political frisson at the salon. Mr. Yurt, known for styling Laura Bush when she was first lady, was left to wonder whether the calls were from the campaign itself. Was Mrs. Gingrich interested in switching stylists, and perhaps going for a softer, more touchable, more Laura Bush aesthetic?
''If I have an opportunity, sure, of course I would like to change that look,'' Mr. Yurt said of Mrs. Gingrich. ''Her friends and people who know her, they say, 'Nuri, you should put your hands in it.' But I never had any chance.'' 
Yes, there are pressing issues facing the nation, from unemployment to foreclosures. But there is still room, it seems, to contemplate the fixed pale-blonde halo framing the delicate head of Newt Gingrich's wife. She has been asked about her hairdo ''at every stop,'' said Kellyanne Conway, a pollster and senior strategist for the Gingrich campaign. ''Men say, 'I love your hair,' women compliment her and then say, 'How do you keep it so perfect?' '' (The secret: hair spray, specifically Kenra Volume Spray 25.)
Callista Gingrich's bob is the latest addition to a distinguished roster of political hair to be parsed for meaning, from Hillary Clinton's headbands to John Edwards's $400 trim to the Sarah Palin up-do that even many Democrats grudgingly admired. Mrs. Gingrich's hair is only the second-most-talked-about of the current campaign season, with her husband's rival, Mitt Romney, coming in first. Hair is, literally, an extension of politicians' selves, inviting scrutiny, Facebook posts and hair punditry: What does it say about them? What does it really say?
Cindi Leive, the editor in chief of Glamour magazine, said it was unfair to judge campaign hair, which exists ''in its own realm,'' by runway and real-world barometers.
In Mrs. Gingrich's case, Ms. Leive said: ''I'm just kind of fascinated by the aerodynamic properties involved, and how she gets it to do the exact same thing every time. I couldn't get my hair to do the exact same thing every day for nine months if you gave me a billion dollars to do it.''
Political hair, Mrs. Conway agreed, must be seen in the context of a churning campaign that is ''uncertain and dynamic and ever-changing.''
''If you can grab onto four or five things that you can control and that don't change,'' she said, ''that might be the proverbial anchor in the storm.''
So what does the flaxen bob convey? Mrs. Gingrich is ''a very fastidious, meticulous, polished person, and that is reflected in her hair,'' Mrs. Conway said.
Others have been less generous. On The Daily Beast, the fashion critic Robin Givhan wrote that Mrs. Gingrich's ''eerily flawless'' hairdo, along with other elements of her style, exuded ''an excruciating prissiness.'' She wrote: ''Youthfulness is not her obsession. Control and order are.''
Gawker wrote that the ''butter-blonde helmet is a feat of modern engineering.''
Holly Allen, of Slate, spent four hours in a Georgetown salon getting her hair colored and cut in an effort to replicate the Callista. Without the signature hair spray (the stylist refused), the bob was a different, more natural, beast. ''Why does she do it?'' Ms. Allen wrote. ''To conform to some ideal of the 'Washington wife'? To look older, bridging the age gap between her and Newt?''
(The slender, fair-skinned Mrs. Gingrich, 45, is her 68-year-old husband's third wife, and began dating him when he was married to his second. All of this may rule out certain hairstyle options that could appear too suggestive, like the popular tousled, sultry looks known as ''bedhead'' and ''beach hair.'')
Dozens of people have weighed in on Facebook posts. ''I absolutely love, love Callista Gingrich's hair,'' wrote Stan Patten, a retired English professor from North Carolina. ''It is the one immovable object in a rapidly changing world.''
In fact, Callista Gingrich's Hair has its own Facebook page. ''Ron Paul challenged the other candidates to a bike race,'' one commenter wrote on the page. ''Seems clear to me what Newt would wear to protect his noggin. ...'' On the day of the Florida primary, another commenter posted, as if addressing the hairstyle, ''You were definitely a bit shy of the perfection we've come to expect,'' adding, ''I hope you're okay!''
Hairstylists across the country have also taken notice. In interviews, several expressed a longing to see her hair an inch or so longer, perhaps with some layering. Many said they would add some ''depth'' to her color, to make it more varied. Mostly, they were mystified.
''Not getting political, because I don't mind Newt, but gosh, I wish she'd lighten up a little bit,'' said Jeffrey McQuithy, the owner of Vis-a-vis, an upscale salon in the Buckhead section of Atlanta. ''If I could just reach through the television and kind of shake her hair a little bit, that would be great.''
One client, Patricia Queen, recalled sitting down in Mr. McQuithy's chair recently, and requesting this look: ''Something spunky, with movement and natural, a little edge but we don't want it too edgy. And don't do a Callista on me.''
Ms. Leive, of Glamour, could have predicted that. ''Is it hair that the average woman who is not married to someone running for president is going to walk into a salon and say, 'Give me the Callista?' '' she asked. ''Probably not. But it's doing something specific. It's sending a message that this is a woman who is not leaving anything to chance.'' In a way, Mrs. Gingrich's hairstyle is an interesting departure from the traditional role of a first-lady hopeful: to humanize her husband and be his more relaxed, down-to-earth half. On the other hand, perhaps some candidates need less humanizing than others. Has anyone ever accused Newt Gingrich of being too controlled?
For example: Mr. McQuithy, a Republican who hasn't decided whom to vote for in the primary, said that while Mr. Gingrich's ''ideas and tenacity'' are admirable, ''there's all sorts of loose-cannon issues.''
Put that way, might not helmet hair be a reassuring counterpoint?
As far as the nuts and bolts of the look, Mrs. Gingrich provided some clues, via Mrs. Conway: She has had the look, which she describes as a ''classic bob with a swoosh,'' since March 2010. She gets it cut once every five weeks, on average; when traveling, she will go to a local salon ''when necessary,'' but in the morning she generally styles it herself. ''It is simple to maintain and does not take much time for daily prep,'' Mrs. Conway said. (Mrs. Gingrich declined comment on the color.)
So what about the tantalizing whispers at the Toka Salon, that Mrs. Gingrich might be considering a new stylist? Not so, said Mrs. Conway; Mrs. Gingrich is sticking with Tatjana Belajic, of the Sugar House Day Spa and Salon in Alexandria, Va. She is, Mrs. Conway said, ''very happy'' with the status quo.
Deconstructing the 'Callista'
L IKE many hair professionals, Brad Johns, color director at the Halcyon Days salon at Saks Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, and Chris Cusano, a stylist there, have their own thoughts about what Callista Gingrich should do with her hair. Mr. Cusano would ''layer it a little bit,'' and cut the hairspray. Mr. Johns would like to see her hair longer, and a darker, more varied blond.
''Hair color is the icing on the cake, and the cake is the cut,'' Mr. Johns said. ''And that is too short of a cake and too much one-color icing.''
Still, they agreed to speculate on the steps that lead to the Callista.
Cut: ''It's basically just a blunt cut bob,'' Mr. Cusano said. Sounds simple.
Color: That depends on the underlying shade. On gray hair, Mr. Johns might recreate the look using Wella Light Pure Gold Blonde. For those without gray, he might use Clairol High Lift Golden Blonde if they were blond as a child, or Clairol Arctic Blonde if they were not.
Styling: It's probably teased with a teasing brush or comb, Mr. Cusano said, then smoothed out. The signature swoop could be achieved by simply brushing the wave, then setting it with hairspray.
Product: Mr. Cusano said any drugstore brand should work. Mrs. Gingrich, through a campaign aide, disclosed that she uses Kenra Volume Spray 25.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NOT A HAIR OUT OF PLACE: Amid other pressing issues, Callista Gingrich's strikingly perfect bob has piqued the nation's interest. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT AND SECOND FROM LEFT, MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CENTER, CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RIGHT, AARON P. BERNSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (78%); JOURNALISM (75%); WRITERS (75%); FORECLOSURE (65%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); MITT ROMNEY (74%); SARAH PALIN (54%); JOHN EDWARDS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



511 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: How Not to Revive an Economy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL GRABELL. 
A reporter at ProPublica and the author of ''Money Well Spent? The Truth Behind the Trillion-Dollar Stimulus, the Biggest Economic Recovery Plan in History.''

 BODY:
THE polarized rhetoric of the 2012 election cycle presents voters with a false choice of whether the government can create jobs or should just get out of the way. The real debate should be about which policies work and which don't.
I spent three years reporting on the $840 billion stimulus plan that the Obama administration pushed through Congress in 2009. My conclusion: government can create jobs -- it just doesn't often do it well.
The stimulus -- a historic package of tax cuts, safety-net spending, infrastructure projects and green-energy investments -- certainly did a lot of good. As the economists Alan S. Blinder and Mark Zandi have noted, it's one of the key reasons the unemployment rate isn't in double digits now.
But the stimulus ultimately failed to bring about a strong, sustainable recovery. Money was spread far and wide rather than dedicated to programs with the most bang for the buck. ''Shovel-ready'' projects, those that would put people to work right away, took too long to break ground. Investments in worthwhile long-term projects, on the other hand, were often rushed to meet arbitrary deadlines, and the resulting shoddy outcomes tarnished the projects' image. 
After trumpeting shovel-ready projects as the bedrock of his stimulus plan, President Obama admitted famously that ''there's no such thing.'' But there were, and are, shovel-ready projects. The administration just needed to find them. Case in point: the nuclear cleanup at the Savannah River Site in Aiken, S.C., which received $1.6 billion in stimulus money. As soon as the money arrived in the summer of 2009, the retired cold war nuclear plant hired thousands of workers to decommission reactors, install pumps in the liquid waste tanks and ship barrels of solid waste to a salt formation in the Chihuahuan Desert. Workers from out of town filled up nearly all of the area's apartments, hotels and restaurants. The county's unemployment dropped to 8.5 percent from 10.2 percent in a matter of months.
Why did it work? Because the government could immediately send billions of dollars to contractors who were already in place for a project that had well-established plans.
The problem with most of the projects was that the Obama administration and Congress had defined ''shovel ready'' too broadly. The original plan called for putting ''shovels in the ground'' within 90 days. But when the rules were written, states ended up with 120 days to have their road projects ''approved.'' It often took six more months to a year before most of the projects were under construction.
Weatherization, for example, was billed as the low-hanging fruit of the clean-energy movement. But states are still sitting on roughly a billion dollars in unused grant money because of a tortured bureaucracy, in which the federal government paid the states, which paid local nonprofits, which then hired the contractors.
Neither states nor nonprofit groups were prepared to handle 20 to 30 times more money than usual. And federal officials brought ready projects to a standstill in the first year by applying new rules regarding prevailing wages.
As a result, the stimulus didn't provide enough oomph in the first year to overcome the effects of the European debt crisis and rising gas prices in 2010.
The stimulus effort should have contained more programs like Cash for Clunkers, which pulled car sales forward, emptied dealership lots and prompted auto plants to bring back thousands of employees.
''We're trying to figure out, 'Man, how did that thing just blow up the way it did?' '' President Obama later said. ''Essentially, all the auto companies did the marketing. They did the advertising in a way the government just can't do it and, frankly, even if we did it, people wouldn't listen.''
The stimulus also could have been more powerful if the administration had pursued a temporary jobs program similar to the Works Progress Administration, which directly employed eight million people during the Depression.
As it was, states could create temporary jobs programs through a $5 billion emergency welfare fund. Not enough states took advantage of it, but those that did saw real results. Fresno County, Calif., where unemployment was 18 percent, found jobs for 2,000 people who were out of work or underemployed.
It also helps to avoid losing jobs in the first place. The promise of $50 billion in state fiscal relief prompted school districts to forgo layoffs. By early 2010, the stimulus money had saved the equivalent of nearly 300,000 full-time teachers and support staff.
Even $50 billion, though, wasn't enough to plug the budget gaps. The administration should have shifted more money there, and it could have tried to prime a similar effort in the private sector.
Germany's ''work-sharing'' program -- in which companies reduce hours rather than lay people off, with the government providing partial unemployment benefits to make up for lost wages -- has helped keep its unemployment rate below 8 percent since 2008. It also will let companies ramp up quickly when the economy recovers.
NO matter who wins in November, the appetite for a big fiscal stimulus package won't be there. So what can be done about the 5.5 million Americans who've been unemployed for six months or more -- a group that includes older workers whom Rutgers labor experts have called ''the involuntarily retired''?
A temporary jobs program similar to the one tried in the stimulus, but aimed at the long-term unemployed, could help these people get the skills they need to return to work.
Shovel-ready isn't as important as it was in early 2009 because we're not scrambling to stanch economic bleeding. But the lingering malaise gives us an opportunity to make smart decisions about our infrastructure.
The American Society of Civil Engineers has given the nation's infrastructure an overall grade of D. Fixing deficient bridges, tunnels, dams and sewage-treatment plants, not to mention expanding high-speed Internet and modernizing the electricity grid, should be clear priorities.
Typically, the government spreads money like peanut butter, so that no one can do anything significant and every program is starved. Separate agencies oversee highways, aviation, transit and railroads. The 2009 stimulus introduced a better model: a competitive, $1.5 billion grant program for transportation, called Tiger, that forced local leaders to think regionally about strategies that combined multiple modes of transportation. The money untangled freight rail lines in Chicago, financed streetcars in Dallas and rapid buses in the Washington area, and helped Philadelphia build a 128-mile network of bike and walking trails. It should be a model for future transportation grant programs.
Investments in solar and wind energy, electric cars and high-speed rail make sense, but to have an impact there must be certainty around them. The fluctuations in America's energy policy, the absence of a trust fund for high-speed rail as there is for highways and aviation, and the clear lack of a plan to tackle the deficit hinder the recovery instead of helping it.
In short, there are areas where the government should get out of the away, by clearing bureaucratic hurdles. But it's equally important for politics to get out of the way of smart government policies that can help the private sector create jobs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lori Smallwood was rehired in 2009 after being laid off from her job as a third-grade teacher in Flowery Branch, Ga. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); POWER PLANTS (75%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); NUCLEAR WASTE (69%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (64%); COLD WAR (64%); RESTAURANTS (61%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



512 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: In Charged Moment, China's Political Heir Tries Introducing Himself to U.S.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES and EDWARD WONG; Michael Wines reported from Beijing, and Edward Wong from Washington. Jonathan Ansfield contributed reporting from Beijing, and Li Bibo contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- When China's vice president and presumptive next president, Xi Jinping, arrives at the White House on Tuesday, American leaders will be scrutinizing him for hints of future stances on crucial issues, from Chinese military intentions to the nuclear programs of Iran and North Korea.
But none is more important -- and for now, more opaque -- than the question of where Mr. Xi and the next generation of leaders want to take China's economy, which is still growing rapidly but shows signs of stress and structural instability, economists say.
Mr. Xi's cross-country swing, from Washington to an Iowa farm town to Los Angeles, comes at a politically charged moment in American relations with China. China's economic competition with the United States has already become a theme in this year's Republican presidential primaries, and President Obama has toughened his tone on Chinese trade and fiscal issues.
In meetings with Mr. Xi at the White House on Tuesday, a stock list of economic demands -- that China lower barriers to American investment, build a consumer-driven economy that would buy more American imports and allow the renminbi to rise against the dollar more quickly -- seems likely to dominate Mr. Obama's side of the conversation, according to officials in Washington. 
For his part, Mr. Xi, introducing himself to the American public, will showcase a down-home personality in contrast to that of China's stoic current president, Hu Jintao. He will announce some business deals with American companies and, like every Chinese visitor, pledge to improve bilateral relations. But given the domestic pressures over this year's once-a-decade leadership transition in China, the odds that Mr. Xi will accede publicly to Mr. Obama's requests are practically nil.
There is a longer-term debate about reforms going on even now, however. In recent months, some Communist Party elites have privately debated the necessity of those reforms with renewed vigor; some of the discussion has crept into public discourse, and there are a growing number of attacks by intellectuals and former officials on what they call the ''vested interests'' that threaten to take China further down the road of crony capitalism.
But the delicacy of the leadership transition and the structural limits on Mr. Xi's authority, particularly in his first five-year term in office, would hamper attempts by him or his colleagues to push reforms even if they are inclined to do so.
He and a new leadership team are set late this year to inherit a quasi-market economy geared above all else to generate fast growth.
The state-owned industries that have ballooned in size, the coastal provinces that have grown rich on exports, the local governments that have reaped billions from land sales and poured billions more into building glittering cities -- all have interests in that economic policy. Economists agree that reforms are needed to land ownership, the social welfare system and the financial sector, and that China must overhaul its investment-driven growth model,but all of that would work against those interest groups.
The big state corporations, in particular, have gained political clout alongside their wealth. They have monopolies on the most important industries -- banking, oil, aviation, construction, telecommunications -- and they maintain close ties to the top party officials. Two former executives of mammoth oil and machinery companies sit on the current Standing Committee of the Politburo, the nine-member body that essentially runs China by consensus.
The officials expected to take posts on the Standing Committee this October all have ties of some kind to the heads of state enterprises; for example, Wang Qishan, who is seen as relatively liberal on economic policy, was a top state bank executive himself. Corporate executives regularly rotate into top provincial posts, and still more sit on the Communist Party's Central Committee.
''If the new leadership can crack down or curtail these companies, they will score well with the public. But those interest groups are very powerful,'' Cheng Li, a scholar of elite Chinese politics at the Brookings Institution in Washington, said in an interview. ''The political risk is overwhelming.''
So, say some, is the risk of doing nothing. Concern has mounted in some quarters of the party -- and anger among citizens -- over the emergence of a powerful and privileged elite. Cynics have coined the phrase ''black collar'' to describe the big-city titans and government elites who wear expensive black suits and invariably drive black luxury automobiles, often flouting traffic and speed laws.
There was a notable lack of discussion of new economic reforms at the party's annual economic work conference in December, where Mr. Hu focused only on talk of stability, according to an editor at a party newspaper.
But in at least five private forums organized by the children of Communist revolution elites last year in Beijing, the need for reforms was discussed, say people briefed on the meetings. Those so-called princelings in attendance wield power through personal connections that could in the long run influence the next group of leaders, even though their calls for change have no immediate effect.
Much about Mr. Xi points to a person who, by the standards of current leaders, will be comparatively progressive. Unlike the parochial Mr. Hu, Mr. Xi, 58, is well-traveled and intimately familiar with the West. His daughter attends Harvard, and he is said to enjoy Hollywood films about World War II. (Mr. Hu is said to be a Russophile.)
Mr. Hu, a onetime hydroelectric power technician, worked his way up through jobs in China's hardscrabble interior. Mr. Xi is the son of a Communist Party aristocrat, Xi Zhongxun, who was present at the birth of China's turn to capitalism and helped develop the special economic zone of Shenzhen. Mr. Xi rose through party jobs in China's entrepreneurial coastal centers.
Some experts say that the background and the histories of China's other new leaders bode well for an economic overhaul.
''These people got their college education in the honeymoon years of reform and opening up, in 1977 and 1978 when the country was just beginning to be transformed,'' said Li Daokui, an economist and adviser to China's central bank. ''Those who were most excited were college students. These people are intrinsically believers in reform and opening up.''
But Mr. Xi's voice, while influential, will be just one of many in China's collective leadership. Managing the economy probably will fall to two other standing committee members: Li Keqiang, the apparent choice to succeed Wen Jiabao as prime minister, and Mr. Wang, the onetime head of a state-owned bank who is regarded as a top candidate for first vice prime minister.
Mr. Wang has deep ties with China's finance and industrial sectors, and he has played a central role in economic talks with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. His history -- he was a protege of Zhu Rongji, an economic reformer who served as prime minister from 1998 to 2003 -- bolsters a general belief that he supports market-oriented economic policies.
Mr. Li's views are unclear, but he served earlier as governor of the central province of Henan, one of the nation's poorest. And his current portfolio, which includes making changes in China's housing and health care sectors, suggests a bent toward improving average citizens' lot.
But some party elites have criticized Mr. Li as ineffectual and reluctant to challenge vested interests in those sections.
Whatever their views, major policy changes will have to run a gantlet of scrutiny -- and potential opposition -- by a new Politburo and other Communist Party powers, including Mr. Hu, who, like his predecessors, is expected to still play a signature role.
And the changes are unlikely to be swift. Many near-term economic policies have already been laid out in the party's latest five-year plan, unveiled last year. Until Mr. Xi manages to fill important jobs with his own allies, a process that will take years, Mr. Hu's economic blueprint will be the guide.
For some years to come, Mr. Hu is going to be ''an overlord,'' one economist who has advised party leaders said in an interview late last year. ''If Xi has any hope, it's in his second term'' -- that is, the last five years of his expected decade-long stint as president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Xi Jinping and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. near Chengdu, China, last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PARKS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (93%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); HU JINTAO (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



513 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Is China Ripe for a Revolution?

BYLINE: By STEPHEN R. PLATT. 
An associate professor of history at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and the author of ''Autumn in the Heavenly Kingdom: China, the West, and the Epic Story of the Taiping Civil War.''

 BODY:
Amherst, Mass.
ONE HUNDRED years ago, on Feb. 12, 1912, the 6-year-old child emperor of the Qing Dynasty abdicated, ending more than 2,000 years of imperial rule in China. But this watershed moment for modern China will not be widely celebrated in the People's Republic. The political climate in Beijing is tense as the ruling Communist Party prepares for a secretive transition to the next generation of leaders, with the untested vice president, Xi Jinping, expected to become president. Reminders of past regime change and the end of dynasties are not welcome.
Of course, the current government has little to fear from the example of 1912. The Qing Dynasty, founded in 1644 by Manchu tribesmen who conquered China from the north, was brought down by a highly organized revolutionary movement with overseas arms and financing and a coherent governing ideology based on republican nationalism. The Communist Party today faces nothing like that. 
What it does face, however, is enormous, inchoate rural unrest. The dark side of China's economic rise has been a shocking widening of the gulf between the prosperous coast and the poverty-stricken interior, a flourishing of corruption among local officials and, by such data as we can gather, widespread anger and discontent. The government has acknowledged tens of thousands of yearly ''mass incidents,'' which can range anywhere from a handful of elderly widows protesting a corrupt real estate grab to communities in open revolt (like the southern village of Wukan) to murderous ethnic rioting, as occurred in the last few years among Tibetans and in western Xinjiang Province and Inner Mongolia.
In that sense, it is instead the Taiping Rebellion, which nearly toppled the Qing Dynasty 50 years earlier, that bears the strongest warnings for the current government. The revolt, which claimed at least 20 million lives before it was quelled, making it the bloodiest civil war in history, suggests caution for those who hope for a popular uprising -- a Chinese Spring -- today.
The Taiping Rebellion exploded out of southern China during the early 1850s in a period marked, as now, by economic dislocation, corruption and a moral vacuum. Rural poverty abounded; local officials were wildly corrupt; the Beijing government was so distant as to barely seem to exist. The uprising was set off by bloody ethnic feuds between Cantonese-speaking Chinese and the minority Hakkas over land rights. Many Hakkas had joined a growing religious cult built around a visionary named Hong Xiuquan, who believed himself to be the younger brother of Jesus Christ. When local Qing officials took the side of the Chinese farmers, they provoked the Hakkas -- and their religious sect -- to take up arms and turn against the government.
What was so remarkable, and so troubling, about the Taiping Rebellion was that it spread with such swiftness and spontaneity. It did not depend on years of preliminary ''revolutionary'' groundwork (as did the revolution that toppled the monarchy in 1912 or the 1949 revolution that brought the Communists to power). And while Hong's religious followers formed its core, once the sect broke out of its imperial cordon and marched north, it swept up hundreds of thousands of other peasants along the way -- multitudes who had their own separate miseries and grievances and saw nothing to lose by joining the revolt. Out-of-work miners, poor farmers, criminal gangs and all manner of other malcontents folded into the larger army, which by 1853 numbered half a million recruits and conscripts. The Taiping captured the city of Nanjing that year, massacred its entire Manchu population and held the city as their capital and base for 11 years until the civil war ended.
SCHOOLCHILDREN in China in the 1950s and '60s were taught that the Taiping were the precursors of the Communist Party, with Hong as Mao's spiritual ancestor. That analogy has now fallen by the wayside, for China's government is no longer in any sense revolutionary. So it makes sense that in recent years, the Taiping have often been depicted negatively, as perpetrators of superstition and sectarian violence and a threat to social order. The Chinese general who suppressed them, Zeng Guofan, was for generations reviled as a traitor to his race for supporting the Manchus but has now been redeemed. Today he is one of China's most popular historical figures, a model of steadfast Confucian loyalty and self-discipline. Conveniently for the state, his primary contribution to China's history was the merciless crushing of violent dissent.
Beijing has learned its lessons from the past. We see this in the swift and ruthless suppression of Falun Gong and other religious sects that resemble the Taiping before they became militarized. We can see it in the numbers of today's ''mass incidents.'' One estimate, 180,000 in 2010, sounds ominous indeed, but in fact the sheer number shows that the dissent is not organized and has not (yet) coalesced into something that can threaten the state. The Chinese Communist Party would far rather be faced with tens or even hundreds of thousands of separate small-scale incidents than one unified and momentum-gathering insurgency. The greatest fear of the government is not that violent dissent should exist; the fear is that it should coalesce.
The rebellion holds lessons for the West, too. China's rulers in the 19th century were, as they are today, generally loathed abroad. The Manchus were seen as arrogant and venal despots who obstructed trade and hated foreigners. All romance was on the side of the Taiping rebels, who at the onset were heralded abroad as the liberators of the Chinese people. As one American missionary in Shanghai put it at the time, ''Americans are too firmly attached to the principles on which their government was founded and has flourished to refuse sympathy for a heroic people battling against foreign thralldom.''
As Mr. Xi prepares to visit the United States on Tuesday, a similar sympathy shapes our view of China's current unrest. Just last weekend, Senator John McCain warned China's vice foreign minister that ''the Arab Spring is coming to China.'' The dominant tenor of Western press coverage is that the Communist Party is finally receiving its comeuppance -- for its corruption, for its misrule in the countryside, for its indifference to human rights and democracy. And below the surface, usually unspoken, lurks a deeply felt sense of schadenfreude -- a desire to see the Communist Party toppled from power by its own people.
But we should be careful about what we wish for. For all of the West's contempt for China's government in the 19th century, when the Taiping Rebellion actually drove it to the brink of destruction, it was Britain that intervened to keep it in power. Britain's economy depended so heavily on the China market at the time (especially after the loss of the United States market to the American Civil War in 1861) that it simply could not bear the risk of what might come from a rebel victory. With American encouragement, the British supplied arms, gunships and military officers to the Manchu government and ultimately helped tip the balance of the war in its favor.
We may not be so far removed. Given the precarious state of our economy today, and America's nearly existential reliance on our trade with China in particular, one wonders: for all of our principled condemnation of China's government on political and human rights grounds, if it were actually faced with a revolution from within -- even one led by a coalition calling for greater democracy -- how likely is it that we, too, wouldn't, in the end, find ourselves hoping for that revolution to fail?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Illustrated London News covered China's Taiping Rebellion in 1855 by depicting rebels, above, and the suburbs of Nanjing, the rebel capital, below. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANSELL/TIME & LIFE PICTURES/GETTY IMAGES) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CULTS & SECTS (88%); CORRUPTION (87%); RELIGION (83%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); RIOTS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



514 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Primed for the Front Row

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
THERE was something maternal about the way Joanna Coles, the British-born editor of Marie Claire magazine, wrapped an arm around Angelina Jolie at a screening last fall of Ms. Jolie's directorial debut, ''In the Land of Blood and Honey,'' shielding her from interlopers as the two posed for the paparazzi.
Afterward, though, the encounter became the punch line of a self-deprecating joke.
Moments before introducing Ms. Jolie at a post-screening discussion of the film at the headquarters of Hearst, her magazine's parent company, she told the audience about a telephone conversation she had just had with her own mom. ''What are you doing this week?'' her mother had asked. ''Well,'' Ms. Coles said, ''I'm conducting an interview with Angelina Jolie.'' 
''Oh, really, darling,'' her mother replied. ''What is she going to be asking you about?''
The anecdote got laughs. More tellingly, though, in a room filled with film stars, top publishing executives and assorted glitterati, Ms. Coles had managed to grab part of the spotlight for herself.
At a Golden Globes after-party at the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles last month, given by the film executive Harvey Weinstein, she moved with much of the same alacrity, getting herself photographed, joined at the hip with the likes of Madonna and Michelle Williams.
Then, there is her star turn on reality television. In January Ms. Coles bowed on ''Project Runway All Stars,'' on the Lifetime network, as the straight-talking mentor (think a female Tim Gunn with a Yorkshire accent) to a cast of aspiring fashion stars, flexing her take-charge personality. Later this month, she'll share the stage with Isaac Mizrahi as the host of a new ''All Stars'' after show.
In the last 18 months, Ms. Coles seems to have encroached Zelig-like on fashion's landscape, popping up wherever the style tribes convene. Yet, as she tells it, that was never her plan. ''I can't spend any times cultivating celebrity,'' she said in an interview at her office at Hearst. ''Obsessing about my image, that's not my shtick.''
But there is little doubt that her recent ubiquity has done plenty to raise not only her magazine's profile but also her own.
Ms. Coles is one in a generation of editors in their 40s and 50s who might well be called the Annas-in-waiting, each eager to investigate career opportunities that might arise when Anna Wintour, 62, finally vacates her power seat at Vogue.
Ms. Wintour's retirement is but a distant prospect. And at this point, no one has a clue who will succeed her -- though the names of Cindi Leive of Glamour and Glenda Bailey of Harper's Bazaar have been bandied about. (Few in the industry think it will be Ms. Coles.) Regardless of who may get the job, the departure of fashion's reigning queen is bound to change the competitive landscape for the women's magazines that now operate in Vogue's shadow.
Ms. Coles seems determined to position Marie Claire for that game-changing moment.
Since arriving at her post in 2006 with little fashion expertise to speak of, she has steered a publication widely perceived as down-market into a mainstream glossy aimed at young, style-conscious working women. Her mandate, as she described it, was ''to make the magazine much more upscale.''
That meant ditching the second-tier fashion lines and strident, sex-driven content that had characterized the magazine under previous editors, including Bonnie Fuller and Ms. Bailey, and replacing it with inspirational features (young novelist goes blind, but endures to tell the tale; B-list actress turns powerhouse director) and a surfeit of luxury brands.
Her strategy, which partly involves balancing high-end fashions with designs well within the reach of her mostly 21- to 34-year-old readers, has reaped rewards. In an industry shaken by a dodgy economy, its authority eroded by bloggers and style-savvy Web enthusiasts, Marie Claire reported a 31-percent jump in advertising pages over 2011.
With 181 advertising pages, the magazine's March fashion issue may yet play second fiddle to competitors like Elle and Bazaar, but it holds a record nonetheless: the largest spring issue in the American edition's 17-year history.
Despite its populist profile -- 87 percent of her readers, Ms. Coles estimates, are young working women, many in entry-level jobs -- Marie Claire has become a magnet for the luxury labels, from Gucci to Gap, from Bulgari to Benetton, that pay the bills. Nor do its editors have trouble wrangling high-powered celebrities like Ms. Jolie, Katie Holmes or Eva Mendes, who is on the magazine's March cover.
You might suspect that such success is the product of strategizing and obsessive ambition. Not so, Ms. Coles declares. Indeed, the woman behind the magazine's metamorphosis seemed at first glance an unlikely candidate for the job.
In a profile in Adweek last year, Michael Wolff described her, admiringly, as a ''British hack,'' a Fleet Streeter still rough at the edges, reporting from New York for The Guardian and then The Times of London. From there it was but a jump for Ms. Coles to an editorial post at New York magazine, and eventually to More, a fashion monthly aimed at women over 40.
Ultimately, said David Carey, the president of Hearst Magazines, Ms. Coles became ''one of those editors who really inhabit the brand. Together they became more visible, more recognized.'' He added, ''That's not really a formula that you can reverse engineer.''
FEW, however, least of all Ms. Coles herself, would have pegged her as a style arbiter.
''I probably don't conform to most people's idea of a fashion editor,'' she said. Still, with her wispy silver-blond hair, understated makeup and Prada dresses, Ms. Coles, 49, is neither the ink-stained wretch that she professes to be nor a showy beacon of the cutting edge.
She eschews extremes: the kinky platform sandals, wedgelike coifs and the unrelieved black that set apart some of her peers. And she cultivates neither the remoteness of Ms. Wintour nor the mystery of Carine Roitfeld, French Vogue's duskily exotic former editor in chief. On the contrary, she makes a near fetish of accessibility and comic self-deprecation, qualities that signal she is a maverick. As she says, ''I clean out the cat tray like everyone else.''
Yet in her time at Marie Claire, Ms. Coles has gained polish, authority and an apparently unflappable demeanor. There are those in the editor's hot seat rattled by the unremitting pressure to increase ad revenues and newsstand sales. Not, evidently, Ms. Coles.
Invoking a certain Fleet Street swagger, she said, ''Going to cover a story in a state I've never been to, driving unfamiliar roads, before there was GPS, not knowing what kind of violence I'm going to encounter at the other end, then filing the copy before anybody else -- that's what I find stressful.''
Her studiously laid-back persona -- she has been called the anti-Anna -- flies in the face of tradition, rendering the stereotype of the fashion dragon (issuing steely directives, demanding mocha lattes from cowering underlings) stuffy if not obsolete.
At a time when fashion itself has been democratized, Ms. Coles, who rules informally (staff members dash in and out of her office without ceremony) seems less artificial and more collaborative than many of her peers, cut from a distinctly modern cloth.
''With Joanna, what you see is what you get,'' a directness expected to engage viewers, said Nancy Dubuc, the president and general manager of Lifetime and the History network.
''There is an honesty about her that's inspiring,'' Ms. Dubuc said -- a warm, straight-shooting persona well suited to Ms. Coles's role as the Tim Gunn of ''All Stars.'' ''She is smart and real to women on every level,'' Ms. Dubuc added, ''a take-charge personality who can speak just as eloquently about the construction of a white shirt as she can about haute couture and the everyday life challenges of being a woman.''
Ms. Coles's Everywoman image has a special resonance in an industry that has grown weary of divas. The era of the superstar editor, ushered in by Tina Brown in the '80s, during her tenure at Vanity Fair, is on the wane, said Samir A. Husni, a magazine consultant and professor of journalism at the University of Mississippi. ''That period ended with the start of the social media, when anybody who could put 140 characters together thought of themselves as a journalist,'' he said, adding, that in the future, the brand, not its editor, will captivate readers and advertisers.
''The editor as a mini-god, someone nobody dares to enter the elevator with,'' he said, ''her day is long gone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPOTLIGHT: Joanna Coles, editor of Marie Claire. (ST1)
TAKE CHARGE: Joanna Coles at the magazine's offices in Midtown Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST12)
 TOP PERCH: Ms. Coles, second from left, at New York Fashion Week last fall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN LOVEKIN/GETTY IMAGES)(ST13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); PUBLISHING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); PARENT COMPANIES (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (69%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (91%); MADONNA (79%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (55%); CHRISTIE HEFNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



515 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: A Year of Tax-Code Reckoning

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
TAXPAYERS struggling with their 2011 returns can take a little solace in the knowledge that change is coming -- though it may be accompanied by increasing tax bills.
For two decades, politicians have promised -- and failed -- to overhaul the tax code to make it simpler and fairer. This time they have a deadline of sorts. On Jan. 1, 2013, a major part of the current code turns into a pumpkin.
That is when income tax rate cuts -- a host of expanded tax deductions and credits, and generous changes in the taxation of dividends, capital gains and inheritances -- are set to disappear. That day of reckoning was supposed to have come in 2011, but President Obama signed a two-year extension of President George W. Bush's tax cuts of 2001 and 2003, along with temporary tax cuts of his own, most notably the two-percentage-point cut to the payroll tax.
This time around, Mr. Obama has vowed that he will not extend the tax cuts for upper-income Americans, and no matter who wins the presidential election in November, Mr. Obama will be in the White House on Expiration Day. That will put pressure on Republicans in Congress to prevent a sudden return to the tax code of the 1990s. 
''The worst thing for our country would be for these automatic tax increases to take place,'' said Jon Kyl of Arizona, the second-ranking Republican in the Senate.
Of course, if the G.O.P. wins control of the White House and both houses of Congress, Republican leaders could allow those wholesale tax increases to take place, with the expectation that they will overturn them once they assume control later in January. They could use a parliamentary mechanism called reconciliation -- the same method used in 2001 and 2003 -- to avoid a Democratic filibuster and reinstate the expired tax rates, at least temporarily.
But at this point, no one is advocating mere preservation of the status quo.
''Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives, independents all believe our tax code is broken,'' said Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, who has been involved in quiet talks with committee Democrats for a year, laying the groundwork for a tax code overhaul.
The current tax system ''is almost antithetical to the growth opportunities the nation needs,'' said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Budget Committee. ''This tax code was written at a time you did not have to worry about the competitive position of America. Now we do.''
Nonetheless, the two political parties remain far apart. Republicans say a simpler code should not bring in more revenue than the current one, except perhaps by spurring economic growth. They emphasize expanding the base of income-tax payers, not hitting current taxpayers harder. About half the households in the country do not pay income taxes, though they do pay other taxes.
Democrats want to preserve the progressivity of the tax code, ensuring that the rich pay a larger share of the total tax bill and that the poor and middle class pay no more. The White House, for instance, wants to do away with the current alternative minimum tax, a parallel system that affects some middle-class households, and replace it with what Mr. Obama calls ''the Buffett rule,'' a new minimum tax of 30 percent for households earning at least $1 million a year.
Democrats also say that with the gradual retirement of baby boomers and increasing demands on programs like Medicare and Medicaid, total tax collections must go up.
''We are at a revenue level that is almost the lowest in 60 years as a share of national income, too low to fund the things that are required,'' Mr. Conrad said.
In 2011, federal tax revenue as a percentage of the gross domestic product stood at 15.4 percent, the Congressional Budget Office said in January. That is up slightly from the previous two years, but otherwise is the lowest percentage since 1950. Federal spending last year, at 24.1 percent of gross domestic product, was on a par with 2009, but to see such levels before the recent recession, you have to go back to 1946 and the winding-down of World War II.
Spending on programs like food stamps and unemployment benefits should decline in an economic recovery, and tax payments should rise, too, but no one thinks that those lines will cross. If all of the Bush tax cuts expired on schedule, the Congressional Budget Office says, the deficit would decline to $196 billion in 2018 before rising again as the population ages and health care costs mount.
R. Glenn Hubbard, dean of the Columbia University Business School, was one of the architects of the Bush tax cuts and is now an adviser to Mitt Romney, who is seeking the Republican nomination for president.
''If we're interested in efficiency, simplification and fairness in the tax code,'' Mr. Hubbard said, ''the first discussion we need is how big a government do we want and need.''
The Bush tax cuts, which totaled nearly $2 trillion over their first decade, remain highly controversial. Tax cuts in 2001 lowered income tax rates at all levels, to 35 percent from 39.6 percent for the highest income earners, and to 10 percent from 15 percent for the lowest bracket. They also doubled the size of the child tax credit and made it refundable for the working poor, while phasing out the tax on inherited estates and allowing affluent taxpayers to take more deductions and credits. Even Mr. Hubbard acknowledges that in some ways the cuts made the tax code more complex.
Another round of tax cuts in 2003 reduced most capital gains tax rates to 15 percent from 20 percent, while also taxing dividends at 15 percent. Before, dividends were taxed as ordinary income, meaning a 39.6 percent rate for affluent investors.
Mr. Conrad calls the tax cuts ''a profound mistake for the country on almost every level.'' Still, 2001 started as a heady year, with the Congressional Budget Office projecting a federal budget surplus for the coming decade totaling $5.6 trillion. Alan Greenspan, then the chairman of the Federal Reserve, worried that the federal debt would be eliminated too quickly, leaving the world with nothing to benchmark interest rates against because Treasury bonds would cease to exist.
After the House and Senate budget committees pared back Mr. Bush's initial tax cut proposal to $1.35 trillion from $1.7 trillion over 10 years, the Senate Budget Committee chairman at the time, Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, assured fretting Democratic colleagues that there would be money and surplus to spare.
Then came a recession, the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and a surge in domestic security spending -- not to mention a new prescription drug benefit for Medicare, noted Mr. Domenici, who is now with the Bipartisan Policy Center. A year after the first tax cuts, the nation was back in the red.
Today, almost no one defends the tax code created by those actions. Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, who was Mr. Bush's budget director, said last year that the tax code he had helped to create was no longer appropriate.
So what comes next?
Mr. Domenici and Alice M. Rivlin, a Democrat and also at the Bipartisan Policy Center, have laid out what Mr. Domenici calls a ''direct assault'' on the tax code. They recommend simplifying personal income tax rates to two brackets, 15 percent and 28 percent, while lowering the corporate income tax rate to 27 percent from 35 percent.
The largest tax deduction in the code, used to write off the cost of a company's health insurance for its workers, would be phased out over 15 years. The code's other two big deductions, for mortgage interest and charitable contributions, would be curtailed, while the deduction for state and local taxes would be eliminated. Generous tax benefits for savings would be maintained.
Mr. Hubbard favors a ''broad-based consumption tax,'' and so does Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland and a member of the Finance Committee. He wants a value-added tax, which would be applied to economic transactions from the wholesale to the retail level. The lowest-income households would get a refund to make up for their added tax burden, he says.
Then there is Herman Cain's 9-9-9 plan, voiced when he was running for the Republican nomination for president, calling for a flat 9 percent personal and corporate tax rate and a 9 percent national sales tax. Mr. Cain's plan may not have brought him to the White House, but it was a sign that some conservatives may be ready to embrace a sales tax, something they have long opposed.
The last major tax reform, in 1986, took three years to achieve. And both sides agree that Congress needs more presidential leadership on the issue. Neither Mr. Obama nor Mr. Romney has laid out detailed plans for a new tax code, much less campaigned to receive a voter mandate for one. While the nation's fiscal deficit makes a tax increase of some kind likely, virtually no one believes that an overhaul will be easy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Kent Conrad, above, says today's tax code ''is almost antithetical'' to needed growth opportunities. R. Glenn Hubbard, right, an architect of the Bush-era tax cuts, concedes that they have added complexity in some ways. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICHOLAS KAMM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS(BU10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIMOTHY COOK)(BU8)
CHART: Tax Cuts and the Budget: Continuing the tax cuts enacted during the administration of George W. Bush would lead to larger budget deficits, according to Congressional Budget Office estimates. (Sources: Office of Management and Budget
 Congressional Budget Office)(BU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (93%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); FILIBUSTER (71%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (83%); JON KYL (57%); ORRIN HATCH (57%); KENT CONRAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



516 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Romney's Path on Abortion

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- From the moment he left business for politics, the issue of abortion has bedeviled Mitt Romney.
In 1994, as a Senate candidate, he invoked the story of a ''close family relative'' who had died after an illegal abortion and insisted that abortion should be ''safe and legal,'' though he was personally opposed. In 2002, while running for governor of Massachusetts, he sought the endorsement of abortion rights advocates, promising to be ''a good voice'' among Republicans, one advocate said.
In 2005, Governor Romney shocked constituents by writing an opinion article in The Boston Globe that declared: ''I am pro-life.'' Running for president two years later, he struggled to explain that turnabout. ''I never said I was pro-choice, but my position was effectively pro-choice,'' Mr. Romney told George Stephanopoulos of ABC during a Republican debate. ''I changed my position.''
Now, with the nation's culture wars erupting anew, Mr. Romney has plunged headlong into abortion politics. 
He tangled with President Obama last week over whether religiously affiliated hospitals should be required to provide free contraceptives -- ''abortive pills,'' Mr. Romney called them. And when a breast cancer group pulled its financing from Planned Parenthood, Mr. Romney called on the federal government to follow suit, saying, ''The idea that we're subsidizing an institution that provides abortion, in my view, is wrong.''
The comments reflect Mr. Romney's evolution from abortion rights advocate to abortion foe; gone was any trace of the candidate for governor who, 10 years ago, answered a Planned Parenthood questionnaire by saying he backed ''state funding of abortion services'' under Medicaid.
Today Mr. Romney is working hard to convince his party's skeptical right wing that he is ''adamantly pro-life,'' especially in the wake of his embarrassing loss in three states last week to Rick Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania and a stalwart of the anti-abortion movement. Yet the more Mr. Romney courts social conservatives, the more two of his Republican rivals, Mr. Santorum and Newt Gingrich, dredge up his past to attack him as a flip-flopper.
Meanwhile, Democrats and their allies are painting Republicans, including Mr. Romney, as ''a radical bunch when it comes to women's health'' who are ''going backward on birth control,'' as Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood Action Fund, said in an interview last week. If that message sticks, it could hurt Mr. Romney with women and independents, a critical voting bloc in a general election.
Mr. Romney's transformation on abortion is, in some respects, the story of a man who entered public life in a state whose politics did not match his own. People close to Mr. Romney say they have no doubt that he opposes terminating a pregnancy. Critics and even some supporters say there is also little question that he did what he had to do to get elected as governor.
''He was always uncomfortable on the issue, but he was penned in by having run as a pro-choice candidate in 1994 and by the political realities of Massachusetts in 2002,'' said Rob Gray, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney's campaign for governor. ''It was made clear to him by advisers early on in his gubernatorial race that he had to be pro-choice, and he could not show any hesitation.''
Mr. Romney declined a request to be interviewed for this article. But in a speech on Friday at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington, he made his current stance plain.
''Let me be clear,'' he said. ''Mine will be a pro-life presidency.''
Long before he confronted abortion as a public policy question, Mr. Romney, a faithful Mormon, grappled with it as a religious matter.
The Mormon Church opposes abortion, except in cases of rape and incest or when the life of the mother is in danger. As a Mormon bishop in the 1980s in his hometown of Belmont, Mass., Mr. Romney tried to talk a congregant, a married mother of four, out of having an abortion after doctors advised her to terminate her pregnancy because of a potentially lethal blood clot.
But by 1994, challenging Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Mr. Romney sought to establish himself as an ardent backer of abortion rights. In a televised debate, Mr. Kennedy lodged a broadside: ''I am pro-choice. My opponent is multiple choice.'' Mr. Romney shot back with the dramatic story of a relative's illegal abortion, saying her death had shaped the views of his mother, Lenore, who ran for the Senate in 1970.
''It is since that time that my mother and my family have been committed to the belief that we can believe as we want, but we will not force our beliefs on others on that matter,'' Mr. Romney said. ''And you will not see me wavering on that.''
In 2002, as a candidate for governor, Mr. Romney filled out a questionnaire for Planned Parenthood declaring that he supported ''the substance'' of the Supreme Court's 1973 landmark abortion rights decision, Roe v. Wade. Six weeks before he was elected, he sat for an hourlong interview with state officials of the advocacy group now known as Naral Pro-Choice America.
Mr. Romney promised to maintain the status quo, keeping intact the rights that already existed under state law. At the end of the private session, when it became clear that the group was going to endorse Mr. Romney's Democratic opponent, he surprised its leaders by saying he could be a ''good voice'' and the most effective national Republican leader on abortion, said Melissa Kogut, a former Naral official who has detailed notes from the meeting.
''I thought, 'That's interesting. He's running for governor, and he's trying to convince us to get behind him because of the role he is going to play on the national stage,' '' she said. ''We left the meeting feeling pretty good.''
By 2005, with Mr. Romney eyeing a possible presidential bid, he began to distance himself from his abortion rights platform. ''My political philosophy is pro-life,'' he told National Review, a conservative magazine, in an article that June. That same article quoted his top strategist at the time, Mike Murphy, as saying Mr. Romney had been ''a pro-life Mormon faking it as a pro-choice friendly.''
After supporting embryonic stem cell research generally, Mr. Romney took a more specific stand against creating embryos for scientific experimentation. And when the State Legislature sent him a bill to expand access to emergency contraception, he vetoed it. He said a medical professional had advised him that the drug, known as the morning-after pill, would ''terminate life after conception.''
For Mr. Romney, that appears to have been a pivotal moment. He recently told the editorial board of The Des Moines Register that he realized then that he could not ''just leave things the way they were,'' as he had hoped. In July 2005, the day after his veto on the emergency contraception bill, he described himself in the Boston Globe opinion article as a ''pro-life governor in a pro-choice state.''
Writing that his convictions had ''evolved and deepened'' during his time as governor, Mr. Romney also called for decisions about abortion to be left to the states -- a position that was tantamount to advocating the reversal of Roe v. Wade.
To abortion rights advocates, it was a betrayal.
''We went crazy,'' said Dianne Luby, chief executive of the Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts. Her members, recalling his assurances about his pro-choice views, began trailing him, costumed as giant pink flip-flops. ''He broke that word,'' Ms. Luby said.
Ultimately, the Legislature overruled Mr. Romney's veto; in the days that followed, he was caught in a back-and-forth over whether all hospitals, including those with religious affiliations, should be required to offer the morning-after pill to rape victims. At first, Mr. Romney supported a religious exemption. But on the advice of his legal counsel, he later reversed himself.
''My personal view, in my heart of hearts,'' he said then, ''is that people who are subject to rape should have the option of having emergency contraception or emergency contraception information.''
The debate foreshadowed the one that played out in Washington last week, when the Obama administration announced that it would require health plans, including those offered by religiously affiliated hospitals and universities, to cover birth control free of charge. The announcement brought social issues to the fore in a campaign that to date has focused on economic concerns. And again Mr. Romney found himself on the defensive, as Mr. Santorum mocked his ''heart of hearts'' remark.
''He said then that he believed 'in his heart of hearts' that receiving these contraceptives -- free of charge -- trumped employees' religious consciences,'' Mr. Santorum wrote in an opinion article published in Politico. ''Now, a few years later and running for president, his heart is strategically aligned with religious voters opposing this federal mandate.''
Mr. Gingrich's campaign, too, sought to exploit Mr. Romney's past remarks.
''He just doesn't seem comfortable in his own skin when he explains how he became pro-life,'' said Kellyanne Conway, Mr. Gingrich's senior strategist and pollster.
Even some social conservatives who say they take Mr. Romney at his word about his anti-abortion stance think he is still trying to parse his words.
Among them is Marjorie Dannenfelser, the president of the Susan B. Anthony List, a conservative advocacy group. She pointed out that Mr. Romney was the only Republican running for president who had not signed her group's ''pro-life presidential leadership pledge'' -- a signal, she said, that he is trying to avoid conservative positions that could hurt him in a race against Mr. Obama.
''I think he is someone who has been running a general election strategy from the beginning,'' she said, ''and so he is being careful on a lot of things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Mitt Romney headed to a 1994 debate with Senator Edward M. Kennedy in which Mr. Romney said he would not impose his abortion beliefs on others. Below, he arrived for a 2007 Republican presidential debate in Iowa. In that campaign, he said he had changed his position. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHAN SAVOIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); MEDICAID (71%); CONTRACEPTION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); BREAST CANCER (53%); HOSPITALS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



517 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: The Front-Runner's Missing Magic

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
DURING the 2000 presidential race, when you talked with Republicans about George W. Bush, their eyes danced. Their voices trilled. It's hard to remember that now, given all the messes he made, but back then Republicans saw him as a godsend. A gift. He had a pedigree that reassured the establishment but a folksiness and religious diction that warmed social conservatives. He spoke some Spanish and talked of immigration and education in inclusive ways that gave independents a reason to perk up. Beloved by many on the right, he could nonetheless nurse crossover dreams.
During the 2008 campaign, Barack Obama sowed even headier expectations among Democrats. He too was backed by believers who regarded him not as the most acceptable of many flawed alternatives but as a special, transformative leader with a rare eloquence and idealism. On top of that conviction was the thrilling prospect of a black president, his election proof that our country had made real progress toward racial reconciliation and that its stated values weren't hollow platitudes. He was hope and he was history. 
In 2012, Mitt Romney's chief problem isn't his riches, though they're not always helpful in an era of sharpened concern about the unequal distribution of wealth. His chief problem isn't the wariness that many conservative purists feel toward him, though that suspicion was both the fuel for Rick Santorum's victories last week and the fraught context of Romney's visit to the Conservative Political Action Conference here on Friday, during which he performed the oratorical equivalent of cartwheels to the right.
What impedes his candidacy more than anything else is an excitement deficit. An excitement void, really. It's hard to find a single Republican, including those most solidly behind him, who demonstrates true passion for him or can do even a persuasive pantomime of it. They call him effective, not inspirational. They praise his competence, not his charisma. He doesn't exert any sort of gravitational pull on his party. There's no full swoon.
How could there be? As a growing number of Republican commentators have begun to note, he hasn't built his candidacy on big, concrete policy ideas but, rather, on a technocratic notion: I did well in our economy, and can thus make it do a whole lot better for you. This is his mantra, and much of what he says amounts to offshoots and anagrams of it: I'm from the private sector. The president isn't. He has no idea how jobs are created. I've minted oodles of them.
Many of Romney's debate performances have been endlessly repeating tape loops of that sort of thing, and his stump speeches are even less electric. Some last about 15 minutes in all, building to a vacuous climax of spoken fragments of the song ''America the Beautiful.'' At CPAC, he mentioned the soul of America, the durability of the Constitution, the perfidy of taxes, the evil of Planned Parenthood: boilerplate, all of it. It's sometimes as if he's trying to run out the clock -- on the primary season as well as the event in question -- before anyone seriously questions the front-runner status that was handed to him early on.
How did he get it? He had presidential bearing, presidential hair, some boast-worthy resume highlights and a politically fluid background that gave him a shot at the swing voters who decide general elections. He did well in hypothetical matchups against President Obama. He had a top-notch campaign organization and formidable fund-raising potential. But he never had magic, and hasn't managed to find any. To the extent that he has succeeded, he has done so for un-magical reasons. He won in New Hampshire, which could almost be said to be his home state; in Florida, where he wildly outspent rivals and turned Newt Gingrich into fleshy, white-tufted roadkill; in Nevada, where the Mormon vote helped. His victories don't outnumber his losses, even though Gingrich, Santorum and Ron Paul have been splitting votes on the hard right.
IN part because they'll continue to, he remains a good bet for the nomination. But he's looking like an anemic nominee. And to change that he has to bust out of his timid confines.
It's fascinating: by most estimations, his term as the governor of Massachusetts was laudable, but he doesn't invoke it as often or effusively as he might, because it doesn't exactly bolster his outsider claim and it draws attention to a somewhat centrist record, including so-called Romneycare, which is troubling to many Republican primary voters. At CPAC Friday, he invoked that record only to reframe it as a triumph of unfettered conservatism in a liberal redoubt.
His service to the Mormon church suggests a humanity and humility that might well impress voters, but he has mostly avoided that topic, too, because he's by nature emotionally reticent and because some Americans still look askance at Mormonism. His career at Bain Capital is dicey, the phrases ''venture capital'' and ''creative destruction'' already sharpened by his opponents into stilettos.
So with a houseful of potential assets, he has been pinned in the foyer, hesitant to access some of the better-furnished rooms. And that constricted biography joins a vague agenda to produce ... an unspecific protest vote. An anti-Obama blur.
Which could be enough, if Obama continues to pick foolishly unnecessary fights, like the one last week with the Catholic Church, and if economic trend lines turn against him. Barring such developments, though, Romney would be in trouble, as his rising unfavorable ratings among independents and worsening numbers against Obama make clear. And he could nab the nomination only to see some Republican ''super PAC'' money steered away from the presidential contest and toward key Senate campaigns. If the party can't get the White House, a second chamber of Congress would be a potent consolation, not to mention a roadblock against Obama's initiatives.
Almost all of the presidents elected over recent decades have been propelled by pockets of intense enthusiasm, which can paper over so many specific political predicaments and eclipse tensions with the base. They were saviors before they were disappointments, not disappointments right out of the gate. And almost all of them had something solid -- a resonant personal story or an outsize personality or a bold vision -- for admirers to latch onto.
Romney wafts through a voter's fingers, a puff of presidential-looking air. Because of flip-flops over time, he has been called squishy, but his shortcoming right now is really different -- and more damaging -- than that. He's vaporous.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); RELIGION (71%); IMMIGRATION (56%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2012



518 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4166 words

HEADLINE: Even Critics of Safety Net Increasingly Depend on It

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and ROBERT GEBELOFF

 BODY:
LINDSTROM, Minn. -- Ki Gulbranson owns a logo apparel shop, deals in jewelry on the side and referees youth soccer games. He makes about $39,000 a year and wants you to know that he does not need any help from the federal government.
He says that too many Americans lean on taxpayers rather than living within their means. He supports politicians who promise to cut government spending. In 2010, he printed T-shirts for the Tea Party campaign of a neighbor, Chip Cravaack, who ousted this region's long-serving Democratic congressman.
Yet this year, as in each of the past three years, Mr. Gulbranson, 57, is counting on a payment of several thousand dollars from the federal government, a subsidy for working families called the earned-income tax credit. He has signed up his three school-age children to eat free breakfast and lunch at federal expense. And Medicare paid for his mother, 88, to have hip surgery twice.
There is little poverty here in Chisago County, northeast of Minneapolis, where cheap housing for commuters is gradually replacing farmland. But Mr. Gulbranson and many other residents who describe themselves as self-sufficient members of the American middle class and as opponents of government largess are drawing more deeply on that government with each passing year. 
Dozens of benefits programs provided an average of $6,583 for each man, woman and child in the county in 2009, a 69 percent increase from 2000 after adjusting for inflation. In Chisago, and across the nation, the government now provides almost $1 in benefits for every $4 in other income.
Older people get most of the benefits, primarily through Social Security and Medicare, but aid for the rest of the population has increased about as quickly through programs for the disabled, the unemployed, veterans and children.
The government safety net was created to keep Americans from abject poverty, but the poorest households no longer receive a majority of government benefits. A secondary mission has gradually become primary: maintaining the middle class from childhood through retirement. The share of benefits flowing to the least affluent households, the bottom fifth, has declined from 54 percent in 1979 to 36 percent in 2007, according to a Congressional Budget Office analysis published last year.
And as more middle-class families like the Gulbransons land in the safety net in Chisago and similar communities, anger at the government has increased alongside. Many people say they are angry because the government is wasting money and giving money to people who do not deserve it. But more than that, they say they want to reduce the role of government in their own lives. They are frustrated that they need help, feel guilty for taking it and resent the government for providing it. They say they want less help for themselves; less help in caring for relatives; less assistance when they reach old age.
The expansion of government benefits has become an issue in the presidential campaign. Rick Santorum, who won 57 percent of the vote in Chisago County in the Republican presidential caucuses last week, has warned of ''the narcotic of government dependency.'' Newt Gingrich has compared the safety net to a spider web. Mitt Romney has said the nation must choose between an ''entitlement society'' and an ''opportunity society.'' All the candidates, including Ron Paul, have promised to cut spending and further reduce taxes.
The problem by now is familiar to most. Politicians have expanded the safety net without a commensurate increase in revenues, a primary reason for the government's annual deficits and mushrooming debt. In 2000, federal and state governments spent about 37 cents on the safety net from every dollar they collected in revenue, according to a New York Times analysis. A decade later, after one Medicare expansion, two recessions and three rounds of tax cuts, spending on the safety net consumed nearly 66 cents of every dollar of revenue.
The recent recession increased dependence on government, and stronger economic growth would reduce demand for programs like unemployment benefits. But the long-term trend is clear. Over the next 25 years, as the population ages and medical costs climb, the budget office projects that benefits programs will grow faster than any other part of government, driving the federal debt to dangerous heights.
Americans are divided about the way forward. Seventy percent of respondents to a recent New York Times poll said the government should raise taxes. Fifty-six percent supported cuts in Medicare and Social Security. Forty-four percent favored both.
Support for spending cuts runs strong in Chisago, where anger at the government helped fuel Mr. Cravaack's upset victory in 2010 over James L. Oberstar, the Democrat who had represented northeast Minnesota for 36 years.
''Spending like this is simply unsustainable, and it's time to cut up Washington, D.C.'s credit card,'' Mr. Cravaack said in a February speech to the Hibbing Area Chamber of Commerce. ''It may hurt now, but it will be absolutely deadly for the next generation -- that's our children and our grandchildren.''
But the reality of life here is that Mr. Gulbranson and many of his neighbors continue to take as much help from the government as they can get. When pressed to choose between paying more and taking less, many people interviewed here hemmed and hawed and said they could not decide. Some were reduced to tears. It is much easier to promise future restraint than to deny present needs.
''How do you tell someone that you deserve to have heart surgery and you can't?'' Mr. Gulbranson said.
He paused.
''You have to help and have compassion as a people, because otherwise you have no society, but financially you can't destroy yourself. And that is what we're doing.''
He paused again, unable to resolve the dilemma.
''I feel bad for my children.''
Middle-Class Blues
Mr. Gulbranson has tried several ways to make a living in the storefront he bought from his father in 1979. He ran a gift shop, then shifted to selling jewelry. Nine years ago, he moved the gold scales to the back and bought equipment for screen-printing clothing. Through it all, he has never made more than about $46,000 in a year.
Meanwhile, the cost of life -- and of raising five children -- has climbed inexorably.
''I used to go out and try to have a meal at Perkins, which is a restaurant here, and get out of the store with $5,'' Mr. Gulbranson said. ''And now it's probably up to $10.''
In recent years he has earned so little that he did not pay federal income taxes, although he still paid thousands of dollars toward Medicare and Social Security. The earned-income tax credit is intended to offset those payroll taxes, to encourage people with lower-paying jobs to remain in the work force.
Mr. Gulbranson said the money covered the fees for his children's sports leagues and the cost of keeping the older ones on the family's car insurance.
''If we didn't get these government things, then probably my kids could not participate in some of the sports they do,'' he said.
Almost half of all Americans lived in households that received government benefits in 2010, according to the Census Bureau. The share climbed from 37.7 percent in 1998 to 44.5 percent in 2006, before the recession, to 48.5 percent in 2010.
The trend reflects the expansion of the safety net. When the earned-income credit was introduced in 1975, eligibility was limited to households making the current equivalent of up to $26,997. In 2010, it was available to families making up to $49,317. The maximum payout, meanwhile, quadrupled on an inflation-adjusted basis.
It also reflects the deterioration of the middle class. Chisago boomed and prospered for decades as working families packed new subdivisions along Interstate 35, which runs up the western edge of the county like a flagpole with its base set firmly in Minneapolis. But recent years have been leaner. Per capita income in Chisago excluding government aid fell 6 percent on an inflation-adjusted basis between 2000 and 2007. Over the next two years, it fell an additional 7 percent. Nationally, per capita income excluding government benefits fell by 3 percent over the same 10 years.
Mr. Gulbranson's business struggled as other companies, particularly construction firms, stopped ordering logo-emblazoned shirts. In 2009, the family claimed the earned-income credit for the first time on the advice of their accountant, who was claiming it for herself. The share of local families claiming the credit climbed 33 percent between 2000 and 2008, the most recent year for which data are available.
To make extra money, Mr. Gulbranson refereed 40 soccer games on Tuesday and Thursday nights last fall. His wife sold clothes at equestrian events and air-brushed novelties at craft fairs, driving around the country with a one-ton trailer hitched to a 20-foot van.
Their difficulties, Mr. Gulbranson said, have made it hard to imagine asking anyone to pay higher taxes.
''I don't think most people could bear to pay more,'' he said.
Instead, he said he would rather give up the earned-income credit the family now receives and start paying for school lunches for his children.
''I don't demand that the government does this for me,'' he said. ''I don't feel like I need the government.''
How about Social Security? And Medicare? Can he imagine retiring without government help?
''I don't think so,'' he said. ''No. I don't know. Not the way we expect to live as Americans.''
A Starring Role
Bob Kopka and his wife often drive to the American Legion hall in North Branch on Thursday nights, joining the crowd gathered in the basement bar for the weekly meat raffle. Almost everyone present relies on the government to pay for their medical care.
Mr. Kopka, 74, has had three heart procedures in recent years. His wife recently had surgery to remove cataracts from both eyes.
Without Medicare, Mr. Kopka said, the couple could not have paid for the treatments.
''Hell, no,'' he said. ''No. Never. She would have to go blind.''
And him?
''I'd die.''
Few federal programs are more popular than Medicare, which along with Social Security assures a minimum quality of life for older Americans.
None are more central to the nation's financial problems. The Congressional Budget Office projects that government spending on medical benefits, even taking into account the cost containment measures in the 2010 health care law, will rise 60 percent over the next decade. Then it will start rising even more quickly. The cost of caring for each beneficiary continues to increase, and the government projects that Medicare enrollment will grow by roughly one-third as baby boomers enter old age.
Spending on medical benefits will account for a larger share of the projected increase in the federal budget over the next decade than any other kind of spending except interest payments on the federal debt.
Medicare's starring role in the nation's financial problems is not well understood. Only 22 percent of respondents to the New York Times poll correctly identified Medicare as the fastest-growing benefits program. A greater number of respondents, 27 percent, chose programs for the poor. That category, which includes Medicaid, is slightly larger than Medicare today but is projected to add only half as much to federal spending over the next decade.
Medicare's financial problems are much worse than Social Security's. A worker earning average wages still pays enough in Social Security taxes to cover the benefits the worker is likely to receive in retirement, according to an analysis by the Urban Institute. Social Security is still running out of money because the program must also support spouses who do not work and workers who earn lower wages. But Medicare's situation is even more dire because a worker earning average wages still contributes only $1 in Medicare taxes for every $3 in benefits likely to be received in retirement.
A woman who was 45 in 2010, earning $43,500 a year, will pay taxes that will reach a value of $87,000 by the time she retires, assuming the money is invested at an annual interest rate 2 percentage points above inflation, according to the Urban Institute analysis. But on average, the government will then spend $275,000 on her medical care. The average is somewhat lower for men, because women live longer.
Medicare is often described as an insurance program, but its premiums are not nearly high enough. In simple terms, Americans are getting more than they pay for.
But many older residents in Chisago say this problem belongs to younger generations. They paid what they were told; they want to collect what they were promised.
Some, like the Kopkas, have savings they can tap. Mr. Kopka still owns the landscaping business he started after leaving the Navy in the early 1960s. He and his wife own a three-bedroom home on three acres, valued by the county at $153,700. The mortgage is paid. They hope to pass the house to their children.
Others have nothing else. Barbara Sullivan, 71, moved last year to the apartments above the Chisago County Senior Center in North Branch. Waiting on a recent Friday for the hot lunch, which costs $3.50, she watched roughly 20 people play bingo for prizes including canned soup and Chef Boyardee pasta.
''Most of the seniors around here are struggling to make it,'' she said.
She counts herself among them. She lives on $1,220 a month in Social Security benefits and relied on Medicare to pay for an operation in November.
She believes that she is taking more from the government than she paid in taxes. She worries about the consequences for her grandchildren. She said she would like politicians to propose solutions.
''We're reasonable people,'' she said. ''We're not going to say, 'Give it to me and let my grandchildren suffer.' I think they underestimate seniors when they think that way.''
But she cannot imagine asking people to pay higher taxes. And as she considered making do with less, she started to cry.
''Without it, I'm not sure how I would live,'' she said. ''With the check I'm getting from Social Security, it's a constant struggle on making sure that I pay my rent and have enough left for groceries.
''I haven't bought a Christmas present, I haven't bought clothing in the last five years, simply because I can't afford it.''
Keeping a Promise
Representative Cravaack often says he entered politics to lift the burden of debt from the shoulders of his two sons.
''I vision that I open up their backpacks and I put in a 50-pound rock and zip it back up again,'' Mr. Cravaack told the Minnesota Freedom Council in October 2010. ''And I say, 'Sorry, son, you're going to have to hump this the rest of your life.' Because that's exactly what we're doing to our national debt right now to our children.''
Mr. Cravaack, a 53-year-old Navy veteran and a retired pilot for Northwest Airlines, was grounded by sleep apnea in 2007. He and his wife, an executive at the drug company Novo Nordisk, decided he would stay home with their sons. He soon became the first man to serve as president of the Chisago Lakes Parent Teacher Organization.
In August 2009, while driving the children to North Branch, he heard a talk radio host urging people to protest President Obama's health care legislation. Mr. Cravaack and about two dozen others spent more than two hours the next day in Mr. Oberstar's North Branch office before a staff member told them the congressman would not meet them. The rejection convinced Mr. Cravaack that Mr. Oberstar should be replaced. One of the other protesters, a woman who had taken her six children to the office, became Mr. Cravaack's campaign scheduler.
Two weeks after speaking to the Freedom Council, he beat Mr. Oberstar by 1.6 percentage points, or 4,407 votes. Voters in Chisago, the southern tip of an expansive district, provided the margin of victory.
''We have to break away,'' Mr. Cravaack told supporters, ''from relying on government to provide all the answers.''
Mr. Cravaack has said he drew unemployment benefits during a furlough from Northwest in the early 1990s. He did not respond to several requests for an interview, nor to an e-mail with questions about his views and about whether his family has drawn on other benefits programs. This account is based on a review of his public statements.
Shortly after arriving in Congress, Mr. Cravaack voted with a vast majority of House Republicans for a plan to remake Medicare by providing money to its beneficiaries to buy private insurance. Senate Democrats have rejected that plan.
But Mr. Cravaack has also consistently said the government should not reduce its largest category of spending -- benefits for the current generation of retirees. He also says he does not support cuts for people who will turn 65 over the next decade.
''If you're 55 years and older, you don't have to listen to this conversation because we have to keep those promises,'' Mr. Cravaack told The Daily Caller last April. ''People like myself, 52, if you're 54 or younger, we're going to have a conversation.''
Tomorrow, Tomorrow
The government helps Matt Falk and his wife care for their disabled 14-year-old daughter. It pays for extra assistance at school and for trained attendants to stay with her at home while they work. It pays much of the cost of her regular visits to the hospital.
Mr. Falk, 42, would like the government to do less.
''She doesn't need some of the stuff that we're doing for her,'' said Mr. Falk, who owns a heating and air-conditioning business in North Branch. ''I don't think it's a bad thing if society can afford it, but given the situation that our society is facing, we just have to say that we can't offer as much resources at school or that we need to pay a higher premium'' for her medical care.
Mr. Falk, who voted for Mr. Cravaack, said he did not want to pay higher taxes and did not want the government to impose higher taxes on anyone else. He said that his family appreciated the government's help and that living with less would be painful for them and many other families. But he said the government could not continue to operate on borrowed money.
''They're going to have to reduce benefits,'' he said. ''We're going to have to accept it, and we're going to have to suffer.''
One of the oldest criticisms of democracy is that the people will inevitably drain the treasury by demanding more spending than taxes. The theory is that citizens who get more than they pay for will vote for politicians who promise to increase spending.
But Dean P. Lacy, a professor of political science at Dartmouth College, has identified a twist on that theme in American politics over the last generation. Support for Republican candidates, who generally promise to cut government spending, has increased since 1980 in states where the federal government spends more than it collects. The greater the dependence, the greater the support for Republican candidates.
Conversely, states that pay more in taxes than they receive in benefits tend to support Democratic candidates. And Professor Lacy found that the pattern could not be explained by demographics or social issues.
Chisago has shifted over 30 years from dependably Democratic to reliably Republican. Support for the Republican presidential candidate has increased relative to the national vote in each election since 1984. Senator John McCain won 55 percent of the vote here in 2008.
Residents say social issues play a role, but in recent years concerns about spending and taxes have predominated.
Voters in the North Branch school district have rejected increased financing for local schools in each of the past three years. In 2010, the district switched to a four-day school week, striking Monday from the calendar to save money.
Some of the fiercest advocates for spending cuts have drawn public benefits. Many, like Mr. Falk, have family members who rely on the government. They often cite that personal experience as the reason they want to cut government spending.
Brian Qualley, 49, has a sister who survived a brain tumor but was disabled by its removal. The government pays for her care at an assisted-living facility. Their mother scrapes by on Social Security.
Mr. Qualley said that the government should provide for those who need help, but that too much money was being wasted. Mr. Qualley, who owns a tattoo parlor in Harris, north of North Branch, said some of his customers paid with money from government disability checks.
''They're getting $300 or $400 tattoos, and they're wearing nice new Nike shoes that I can't afford,'' he said, looking up from working a complicated design into the left leg of a middle-aged woman. ''I guess I shouldn't say it because it's my business, but I think a tattoo is a little too extravagant.''
But Mr. Qualley said he did not want to reduce benefits for the current generation of retirees. Rather, he said his own generation should get less, because they have time to prepare. This is a common position among the young and healthy in Chisago.
Mr. Qualley said he was saving some money for retirement, although, he added, ''I don't have a 401(k) or anything like that.''
''I also have a job that I don't necessarily ever want to -- or have to -- retire from,'' he said.
What if his hands start to shake as he gets older?
''Actually,'' he said, the electric needle falling silent in his hand, ''it's my shoulders and neck that bother me most.''
Safety in Numbers
Barbara Nelson has little patience for people who say they will not need government help. She considers herself lucky she has not, and obligated to provide for those who do.
''Catastrophes happen in life,'' she said, sitting in a coffee shop in Taylors Falls. ''To be so arrogant that you think it won't happen to you, that somehow you're going to be one of the special ones, I disagree with that.''
Ms. Nelson, 61, who describes herself as a centrist Democrat, also dismisses the claim that people cannot afford to pay more taxes.
''Anyone who can come into a coffee shop and buy coffee is capable of paying more,'' she said. ''If someone's life can be granted, in terms of adequate health care, if that means I give up five cups of coffee a month, that is a small price to pay.''
Gordy Peterson, 62, who has used a wheelchair for 30 years since a construction accident, has reluctantly reached a similar conclusion.
''I'm a conservative,'' he said by way of introducing himself. He built his own house before his injury and paid for it in cash. He still thinks the government should operate that way. He never intended to depend on federal aid and said he sometimes felt guilty about it.
But for the last three decades, he has received a regular check from the Social Security disability insurance program, and Medicare has helped to pay his medical bills.
''Here I'm getting money, and everybody is struggling,'' he said. ''Even though it ain't no cakewalk for me.''
Mr. Peterson used a workers' compensation settlement to buy a farm that he managed with his brother-in-law, who is mentally handicapped and also on government disability.
''He was my legs, and we worked it,'' Mr. Peterson said.
They grew corn, soybeans and rye, and even kept steers for a while. In good years they earned enough to live on. In bad years they lived on the government's checks. Life would have been very difficult without them, he said.
Mr. Peterson, an easygoing man who looks down when he thinks and smiles sheepishly when he offers an opinion, looked down after completing the story of his own dependence on the safety net.
''It's hard to beat up on the government when they've been so good to you,'' he finally said. ''I've never really thought about it, I guess.''
Lately, the government has been very good, indeed. The county, with federal financing, bought a corner of Mr. Peterson's farm to build a new interchange for Interstate 35. He used the money to open a gas station at the edge of the farm in 2008 to serve the traffic that rolls off the new ramp. The business is prospering, and he no longer worries that he will need to depend on Social Security.
''But you can't take that away,'' he said. ''My own sister has only Social Security. That's all. That's all she's going to have. And if you take that away from her, Christ, she'd be a street person. I don't think we can cut them off on that.''
How about higher taxes?
Maybe a little higher, he said. Maybe.
''I'm glad I'm not a politician,'' he said. ''We're all going to complain no matter what they do. Nobody wants to put a noose around their own neck.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 14, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart on Sunday with the continuation of an article about increased federal aid for the middle class contained a map that designated North Carolina as one of the states won by Senator John McCain in the 2008 presidential election. In fact, President Obama won that state. (In the 100 counties with the highest dependence on federal aid, Mr. McCain won two-thirds of them.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KI GULBRANSON, who counts on an earned-income tax credit and has signed up his children for free meals at school.
BARBARA SULLIVAN, who lives on Social Security and relied on Medicare to pay for an operation.
BRIAN QUALLEY, who says some of his tattoo customers pay with money from disability checks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENN ACKERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24)
Chip Cravaack during his campaign for Congress in 2010. Mr. Cravaack says he entered politics to lift the burden of debt from his two sons. Voter anger over spending helped him oust an incumbent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLINT AUSTIN/DULUTH NEWS TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A25) CHARTS: Where Federal, State and Local Tax Dollars Go: Inflation-adjusted per capita spending, in today's dollars. (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) (A1)
Polling Perception, Charting Reality: Government benefits, such as Social Security and Medicare, make up nearly a fifth of Americans' income, and almost half of the country lives in households that receive benefits. The cost of these programs is rapidly rising and consumed nearly 66 cents of every dollar of federal and state revenue in 2010. In a recent Times poll, Americans' perceptions about the cost of these programs sometimes conflicted with reality: PERCEPTION: A majority of Americans say they will pay more in taxes than they will get back in benefits. (Sources: New York Times poll)
REALITY: Federal and state government spending is outgrowing tax revenues, and benefits programs make up an increasing share of that spending. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis)
PERCEPTION: Americans are divided over which programs will be costliest. (Sources: New York Times poll)
REALITY: Spending on Medicare and Medicaid is projected to rise by more than any other government programs. (Sources: Congressional Budget Office
Office and Management and Budget
U.S. Department of Agriculture)
PERCEPTION: A majority of Americans don't think what they pay will cover the cost of two programs that benefit them. (Sources: New York Times poll)
REALITY: Most pay much less in Medicare taxes than their medical care costs. (Source: Urban Institute)
The Poor Are Getting A Smaller Share of Government Payments (Source: Congressional Budget Office) (A25)
MAPS: Benefits in Chisago County, Minn., increased 69 percent since 2000. (A24)
Where Americans Most Rely on Government Benefits: The share of Americans' income that comes from government benefit programs, like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, more than doubled over the last four decades, rising from 8 percent in 1969 to 18 percent in 2009.
Six Major Spending Areas: Maps show the top 20 percent of counties in share of income from specific entitlement programs. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections) (MAPS BY FORD FESSENDEN AND ROBERT GEBELOFF/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FAMILY (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); SOCCER (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); POLITICS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); POOR POPULATION (74%); YOUTH SPORTS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); AGING (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (62%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: CHIP CRAVAACK (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



519 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Private Equity Industry Attracts S.E.C. Scrutiny

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun a broad examination of the business practices of some of the country's most powerful private equity firms. 

 BODY:
In recent years, the private equity industry has escaped much of the regulatory scrutiny that has been directed toward hedge funds and Wall Street banks. But that appears to be changing. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun a broad examination of the private equity industry, seeking information about the business practices of some of the country's most powerful financial firms.
The S.E.C.'s enforcement unit sent a letter late last year to several private equity funds as part of what it called an "informal inquiry" into the industry, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly. It is not clear which firms received the letter.
 While the S.E.C. emphasized that the request should not be construed as an indication that it suspected any wrongdoing, its goal in gathering information was to investigate possible violations of securities laws, these people said.
One focus of the inquiry is how private equity firms value their investments and report performance. Unlike the valuing of publicly traded stocks, valuing private equity investments - largely in private companies that are not listed on an exchange - can be a thorny and subjective process.
The S.E.C.'s concern, say people familiar with the government inquiry, is that some private equity funds might overstate the value of their portfolios to attract investors for future funds.
"Private equity firms work hard, with auditors and company managements, to provide accurate valuations of their largely illiquid holdings to their investors," said Steve Judge, the chief executive of the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, the industry's trade group.
The S.E.C. inquiry, which was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal, adds to the increased scrutiny of the private equity industry in Washington and expands the agency's interest in how financial institutions value their holdings. 
While private equity billionaires like Henry R. Kravis and Stephen A. Schwarzman have long made headlines for their audacious deals, the industry has historically received minimal attention from federal lawmakers, in part because private equity clients - typically pension funds and the investment arms of foreign governments - are considered to be more sophisticated than average investors.
The inquiry also comes at a time when private equity has been thrust onto the national stage as a central issue in the presidential election. Mitt Romney, a leading contender for the Republican nomination, earned his fortune running Bain Capital, one of the world's largest private equity firms.
The industry drew heightened interest during last decade's buyout boom. Backed by billions of dollars in loans from flush banks, the firms acquired major American companies, including the radio giant Clear Channel Communications, the hospital chain H.C.A. and the automaker Chrysler.
Washington began to pay attention. The favorable tax treatment that private equity executives receive on a large portion of their compensation came under attack. The Justice Department began investigating whether the world's largest private equity firms colluded to drive down the prices of acquisitions that they teamed up on.
Under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, most private equity firms must register with the S.E.C. by the end of March. The commission already oversees many firms. The Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, for example, are publicly traded companies that provide the commission with detailed financial information.
While the largest private equity shops receive the most publicity, the industry is vast, with several thousand firms and more than $1 trillion in assets under management.
Critics of the industry argue that private equity's core investment strategy - taking on large amounts of debt to buy companies - too often results in bankruptcies and job losses.
Private equity officials counter that their acquisitions drive economic growth by making companies more competitive. They also boast of delivering superior investment returns to clients, including public pension funds.
The S.E.C inquiry appears less focused on big-picture questions like private equity's effect on jobs or the companies that it buys. Instead, the commission wants to deepen its understanding of more arcane issues like firms' fee structures and how they value investments.
Handling the inquiry is the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, which drew criticism for its ineffectiveness as a regulator in the period leading up to the financial crisis. The agency has recently taken a more aggressive public stance, vowing to root out misconduct on Wall Street.
Speaking at a private equity conference last month, Robert B. Kaplan, co-chief of the S.E.C. enforcement division's newly formed asset management unit, said he thought the private equity industry lacked sufficient oversight and deserved more scrutiny.
One area of focus is portfolio valuation. Private equity managers use varying, complex methodologies to value their holdings, which are often private companies bought using debt. Because there are no easily ascertainable market prices for private companies, subjective judgments play a significant role in their valuation.
While the industry has in recent years provided managers with a framework for valuing their private holdings, even its largest, most sophisticated players acknowledge the complexities involved. 
The Carlyle Group, for instance, which has filed for an initial public offering, lists valuation as a "risk factor" in its registration statement with the S.E.C.
"Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our funds can involve subjective judgments," Carlyle said, "and the fair value of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may be incorrect, which could result in the misstatement of fund performance."
Private equity funds argue that they are rigorous in their valuation process. Many firms use independent financial advisory firms that specialize in portfolio valuation, like Duff & Phelps.
They also contend that interim valuations are less important to investors in private equity funds than investors in other vehicles like hedge funds. That is because private equity funds earn profits only when they sell a holding. By contrast, hedge fund managers are paid on their gains at the end of each year.
"Because private equity investments are not traded on stock exchanges, investors and company management can focus on creating value over the long term and not on the monthly or quarterly pressures of the public markets," said Mr. Judge, the chief of the industry trade group.
The valuation of assets has become a main focus of law enforcement authorities, not only at private equity firms but also at hedge funds and Wall Street banks.
Earlier this month, federal prosecutors charged three former Credit Suisse executives with inflating the value of their mortgage-bond holdings to secure higher bonus payouts.
The S.E.C. recently filed several actions against hedge funds as part of an initiative to combat fraudulent valuations and phony returns. The effort - called the "aberrational performance inquiry" - uses what the S.E.C. calls proprietary risk analytics to evaluate hedge fund performance.
In announcing the initiative, the S.E.C. emphasized that it was interested in assessing returns across Wall Street.
"We are applying analytics across the investment adviser space - beyond performance and beyond hedge funds," the agency said.

        
Moody's Says Hedge Fund Rules Will Protect Investors
        
S.E.C. Reaches Settlement in Bear Stearns Fraud Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); ELECTIONS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); HOSPITALS (50%) Private Equity; Securities and Exchange Commission; Kravis, Henry R; Schwarzman, Stephen A; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (99%) Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); HENRY KRAVIS (78%) Kravis, Henry R; Schwarzman, Stephen A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



520 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: India's Relationship with U.S. About More Than Iran

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Facing criticism over trade with Iran, Indian officials stress U.S. ties. 

 BODY:
"India's determination to continue buying Iranian oil, despite sanctions and growing political pressure from the United States and Europe, has frustrated officials in Washington at a time when the forward momentum in the United States-India relationship has slowed, with differences over issues including civil nuclear cooperation, trade protectionism and military sales," Jim Yardley writes in The New York Times. 
"Indian officials, even those supportive of a stronger partnership with the United States, caution against turning issues like Iran into diplomatic litmus tests, considering the complexities of a neighborhood in which India represents a bulwark of stability, democracy and economic opportunity compared with Pakistan, Afghanistan and other countries," he writes. 
"This can't be a test of our friendship," said Lalit Mansingh, a former Indian ambassador to the United States. "Washington must realize that we are in a neighborhood where Iran is a factor." 
Read the full story here. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (87%); PROTECTIONISM (87%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (87%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (86%); POLITICS (73%) Politics and Government; India

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



521 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Relief for Service Members

BYLINE: JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.


HIGHLIGHT: Four mortgage big lenders have agreed to try to make whole service members who lost their homes or were denied interest rate reductions in violation of a federal law. 

 BODY:
Members of the military services who lost their homes in unfair foreclosures have won a big victory - and will receive big payouts -- in the comprehensive settlement of mortgage litigationthat was reached last week.
Four big lenders have agreed to identify service members who lost their homes or were denied interest rate reductions in violation of a law that protects active duty and deploying troops from credit card or mortgage abuses - and to make up their losses. The lenders are JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Ally Financial, formerly GMAC.
The breakthrough was described in a briefing on Friday by Holly Petraeus, assistant director for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's Office of Servicemember Affairs; Tom Perez, assistant attorney general for the Justice Department's civil rights division; and Attorney General Beau Biden of Delaware.
Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Ally will be required to provide any service member who was a victim of a wrongful foreclosure a minimum of $116,785, plus lost equity and interest, Mr. Perez said. Banking regulators could decide to make the payout even higher.
JPMorgan Chase, which has compensated some service members because of an earlier private settlement, will provide victims either their home free and clear of debt or the cash equivalent of the full value at the time of the sale. "In addition," Mr. Perez said, "service members will receive compensation for any additional harm suffered."
Those who think they may qualify can contact an Armed Forces Legal Assistance office. (More details are atservicemembers.gov. Or call the Justice Department at 800-896-7743.)
Service members do not have to apply for relief. The government, over time, will identify victims and notify them.
Mr. Perez said "the law postpones, suspends, terminates or reduces the amount of certain consumer debt obligations so that members of the armed forces can focus their full attention on their military responsibilities without adverse consequences for themselves or their families. It allows our service members to focus on the critical role they play in protecting our nation."
He added: "Among these protections is a prohibition on foreclosure of a service member's property without first getting approval from the court, if the service member received the mortgage loan prior to entering military service. And if a foreclosure is filed in court, it requires the servicer to notify the court that a service member is on active duty."
Finally, he said, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act "provides that a service member can have his or her interest rate lowered to 6 percent on debt that was acquired before entering military service."
The settlement expands the protections in important ways, like covering deployed troops regardless of whether they took out their mortgages before or after enlisting, and providing mortgage relief when military families whose homes are under water financially are relocating for new assignments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); FAMILY (70%) Foreclosures; Mortgages; United States Defense and Military Forces; Ally Financial Inc; Citigroup Inc; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; GMAC LLC; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Wells Fargo & Company; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company|WFC|NYSE; Economy

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (74%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%) Ally Financial Inc; Citigroup Inc; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; GMAC LLC; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Wells Fargo & Company

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (74%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



522 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: From Bloomberg, a New Luxury Magazine

BYLINE: AMY CHOZICK


HIGHLIGHT: Even as mass-market magazines face a slump in newsstand sales, magazines that cater to the wealthy are often thriving. 

 BODY:
A Wall Street executive posing in front of a garage full of red Ferraris isn't the populist choice for a magazine cover given the current economic climate.
But Bloomberg L.P. isn't aiming for the 99 percent with its new luxury magazine, Bloomberg Pursuits, which will be distributed twice a year beginning this week to customers who subscribe to the company's financial data terminals and receive the related Bloomberg Markets magazine.
The magazine, sent to an audience with an average annual household income of more than $450,000, represents a tiny pocket of the print publishing world that is thriving, even as its mass-market counterparts face a slump in newsstand sales.
"In luxury, paper is still king," said Samir Husni, a journalism professor at the University of Mississippi who tracks new magazines.
Chanel, Cartier and Porsche have all bought ads in the first issue of Bloomberg Pursuits; 29 of the magazine's 72 pages are ads. "These advertisers view digital editions as a very disposable thing. You wave your hand and it's gone," Professor Husni said.
In the quarter that ended Dec. 31, advertising pages at many consumer magazines, especially celebrity publications and women's magazines, fell, according to the Association of Magazine Media. Us Weekly's ad pages fell 32.6 percent, People was down 10.1 percent and Glamour had a 19 percent drop from the same period a year earlier, the report said.
Meanwhile, publications like Departures, a lifestyle magazine published by American Express and sent to platinum and centurion cardholders, the Financial Times' monthly luxury magazine How to Spend It and WSJ., the glossy magazine enclosed in The Wall Street Journal's weekend issue, have grown.
In the quarter that ended Dec. 31, advertising revenue for Departures has increased by 46.2 percent and its pages have jumped by 39.4 percent from the same period a year ago, according to the Association of Magazine Media. Begun in 2008 as a quarterly publication, WSJ. will publish 10 issues this year.
Pursuits (which has the same name as a short-lived Wall Street Journal weekend leisure section) will be sent to 375,000 readers, with 60 percent of those living outside the United States, the company said. That demographic influenced features in the first issue, like one about wealthy Chinese buying vineyards in the Bordeaux region of France.
"Our readers spend a lot of time in the electronic world, but when it comes to lifestyle, it's wonderful to sit back and read stories in a way only magazines can convey," said Michael Dukmejian, publisher of Bloomberg Markets and Bloomberg Pursuits.
Bloomberg Markets and Pursuits have their own staff but will share resources with the wider company. (It's separate from Businessweek, Bloomberg's weekly magazine sold on newsstands and through traditional subscriptions.)
Mr. Dukmejian said that Pursuits had its readers in mind and that he wasn't worried that the conspicuous consumption celebrated in the magazine might seem tone-deaf. Added a company spokesman, Drew Kerr: "It's a very closed audience. Pursuits is poly-bagged with Bloomberg Markets so it's not like we're flaunting Ferraris on newsstands."

        
Bloomberg Executive Is Said to Be in Talks to Lead Dow Jones
        
Doctoroff Named Chief Executive of Bloomberg L.P.
        
In Comcast-NBC Conditions, a Victory for Bloomberg
        
Magazines' Newsstand Sales Fall 9.1 Percent
        
BusinessWeek's Editor Leaves After Bloomberg Takeover

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSSTANDS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%) Bloomberg LP; Advertising and Marketing; Magazines

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (94%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (56%) Bloomberg LP

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (94%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



523 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2562 words

HEADLINE: What to Do About 'Coming Apart'

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: How should we respond to the diagnosis of America's ills offered by Charles Murray? 

 BODY:
Charles Murray has an unparalleled talent for persistently forcing the most explosive issues of American politics into the center of the political debate.
Not only does he stoke controversy, he does so with perfect timing for the conservative movement. For a generation now, Murray has provided intellectual justification for an assault on defenders of public welfare benefits.
With the publication of "Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010," Murray has produced a book-length argument placing responsibility for rising inequality and declining mobility on widespread decay in the moral fiber of white, lower-status, less well-educated Americans, putting relatively less emphasis on a similar social breakdown among low-status, less-educated Americans of all races.
Murray's strength lies in his ability to raise issues that center-left policy makers and academics prefer, for the most part, to shy away from. His research methods, his statistical analyses and the conclusions he draws are subject to passionate debate. But by forcing taboo issues into the public arena, Murray has opened up for discussion politically salient issues that lurk at a subterranean level in the back-brains of many voters, issues that are rarely examined with the rigor necessary to affirm or deny their legitimacy.
Despised by the left, Murray has arguably done liberals a service by requiring them to deal with those whose values may seem alien, to examine the unintended consequences of their policies and to grapple with the political impact of assertions made by the right. He has also amassed substantial evidence to bolster his claims and at the same time elicited a formidable academic counter-attack.
Murray first appeared on the political scene in 1984 with the publication of "Losing Ground: American Social Policy, 1950-1980." The book made the case that liberal government programs had worsened the lives of the poor - a crucial claim if you want to justify the decimation of domestic social spending programs.
His argument immediately provoked intense arguments - one notable exchange took place in the New York Review of Books between Murray and Christopher Jencks of the sociology department at Harvard. There is no question that "Losing Ground" was influential, playing a key role in the enactment of welfare reform - with radically slashed benefits - 12 years later.
The National Review and the Conservative Monitor cited "Losing Ground" as one of the ten books that most changed America. Murray's book
seemed like a bolt of lightning in the middle of the night revealing what should have been plain as the light of day. The welfare state so carefully built up in the 1960s and 1970s created a system of disincentives for people to better their own lives. By paying welfare mothers to have children out of wedlock into a poor home, more of these births were encouraged. By doling out dollars at a rate that could not be matched by the economy, the system encouraged the poor to stay home.
Jencks was highly critical of Murray's use of data and the conclusions he drew from his data, but Jencks paid tribute to the political savvy behind Murray's argument. "Conservative politicians and writers are now trying to shift the prevailing view again, by arguing that federal programs are not just ineffective but positively harmful," Jencks wrote "Losing Ground," Jencks pointed out, is "the most persuasive statement so far of this new variation on Social Darwinism" and " most important of all, his argument provides moral legitimacy for budget cuts that many politicians want to make in order to reduce the federal deficit."
"Losing Ground" was controversial, but the disputes it provoked were modest in comparison to the outcry following the arrival in 1994 of "The Bell Curve," which Murray wrote with Richard Herrnstein, a psychology professor at Harvard who died the year the book was published.
At the time of publication, the Chicago Tribune summarized some of that book's key findings:
Herrnstein and Murray say intelligence will be the decisive dividing force of the 21st century, as smart people get the best educations and best jobs, earn the most money, marry each other, produce bright children and cluster together into a cognitive elite.
Those with markedly below-average intelligence will be left in a growing underclass, likely to drop out of school and hold routine jobs or none at all. Their children will be born into inadequate, high-risk homes, often with single parents, and destined by their low IQ to remain stuck in poverty.
Much of the nation's well-intended efforts to help the underclass have failed, the book contends, because we have refused to recognize the basic problem: low IQ. "Inequality of endowments, including intelligence, is a reality. Trying to pretend that inequality does not really exist has led to disaster. Trying to eradicate inequality with artificially manufactured outcomes has led to disaster," they say.
The forces pushing us apart cannot be stopped, assert Herrnstein and Murray. Efforts to improve health, education and childhood interventions must fight a "demographic head wind" that results when the poor have a disproportionately high number of children and the mean IQ of immigrants in the 1980s is slightly below average.
Most controversially, Murray and Herrnstein wrote, "we stipulate that one standard deviation - fifteen IQ points - separates whites and blacks."
Fast forward to 2005, when Murray previewed, in an article appearing in the September 2005 issue of Commentary, what would come to be the central preoccupation of "Coming Apart."
When the late Richard Herrnstein and I published "The Bell Curve" eleven years ago, the furor over its discussion of ethnic differences in IQ was so intense that most people who have not read the book still think it was about race. Since then, I have deliberately not published anything about group differences in IQ, mostly to give the real topic of "The Bell Curve" - the role of intelligence in reshaping America's class structure - a chance to surface. 
Murray made one substantial and consequential concession in discussing his former emphasis on the heritability of IQ:
I shift from "innate" to "intractable" to acknowledge how complex is the interaction of genes, their expression in behavior, and the environment. "Intractable" means that, whatever the precise partitioning of causation may be (we seldom know), policy interventions can only tweak the difference at the margins.
In "Coming Apart," Murray returns to his core theme, which is the "intractable" factors that have reshaped America's class structure: specifically, the stratification of social class in the United States by IQ. He argues that the "central American values involving marriage, honesty, hard work and religiosity" have eroded among those on the lower rungs of the socio-economic ladder, and that this population (his focus here is on whites) finds itself at or near the bottom of this ladder because its vulnerable members, on average, have less cognitive ability - and thus less ability to evaluate the likely outcomes of behavioral choice - than those on the upper rungs.
Murray's concern about the "white underclass" was evident as long ago as 1986, when he published "White Welfare, White Families, 'White Trash' " in the National Review. William Raspberry of the Washington Post summarized Murray's concerns that year:
Just when we are starting to come to grips with the special problems of the black underclass; just when middle-class blacks especially are groping for explanations and remedies for the special problems, along comes Charles Murray to tell us that the problems are neither all that special nor all that black. The problem, he says, is not race but class. And though it affects blacks disproportionately, it is affecting whites at a growing rate. For instance, the illegitimacy rate among American whites today is roughly what it was among blacks 20 years ago when Daniel Patrick Moynihan wrote his unsettling report on the disintegration of black families.
Murray's analysis retains the same focus today that it did in 1986. He contends in "Coming Apart" that there was far greater social cohesion across class lines 50 years ago because "the powerful norms of social and economic behavior in 1960 swept virtually everyone into their embrace," adding in a Jan. 21 op-ed in the Wall Street Journal that
Over the past 50 years, that common civic culture has unraveled. We have developed a new upper class with advanced educations, often obtained at elite schools, sharing tastes and preferences that set them apart from mainstream America. At the same time, we have developed a new lower class, characterized not by poverty but by withdrawal from America's core cultural institutions.
According to Murray, higher education has now become a proxy for higher IQ, as elite colleges become sorting mechanisms for finding, training and introducing to each other the most intellectually gifted young people. Fifty years into the education revolution, members of this elite are likely to be themselves the offspring of cognitively gifted parents, and to ultimately bear cognitively gifted children.
Cognitive ability, which arms elites against socio-moral unraveling - and which allows them to create optimal high-investment environments for their offspring - was far less important to socioeconomic status 50 years ago, Murray believes. Certainly there is persuasive data, recently gathered by Sean F. Reardon of Stanford University and the Russell Sage Foundation, that demonstrates that "while the achievement gap between white and black students has narrowed significantly over the past few decades, the gap between rich and poor students has grown substantially during the same period."
Murray makes the case that cognitive ability is worth ever more in modern advanced, technologically complex hypercompetitive market economies. As an example, Murray quotes Bill Gates: "Software is an IQ business. Microsoft must win the IQ war or we won't have a future."
Murray alleges that those with higher IQs now exhibit personal and social behavioral choices in areas like marriage, industriousness, honesty and religiosity that allow them to enjoy secure and privileged lives. Whites in the lower social-economic strata are less cognitively able - in Murray's view - and thus less well-equipped to resist the lure of the sexual revolution and doctrines of self-actualization so they succumb to higher rates of family dissolution, non-marital births, worklessness and criminality. This interaction between IQ and behavioral choice, in Murray's framework, is what has led to the widening income and cultural gap.
Take industriousness. Murray writes: "Industriousness: The norms for work and women were revolutionized after 1960, but the norm for men putatively has remained the same: Healthy men are supposed to work. In practice, though, that norm has eroded everywhere."
To Murray, the overarching problem is that liberal elites, while themselves living lives of probity, have refused to proselytize for the bourgeois virtues to which they subscribe, thus leaving their less discerning fellow-citizens to flounder in the anti-bourgeois legacy of the counter-cultural 1960s.
On the basis of his extensive publications over the past 30 years, Murray can stand on equal footing with such pillars of contemporary conservatism as Richard Viguerie, the father of direct mail; Paul Weyrich and Edwin Feulner, founders of key right-of-center think tanks; Grover Norquist, enforcer of Republican anti-tax policy; and Newt Gingrich, architect of the 1994 Republican revolution and current presidential candidate.
"Coming Apart," with its emphasis on the "demoralization" of white working-class America, has receivedexuberant praise and brutalcriticism. Despite his emphasis on morale, Murray demonstrates an insensitivity to the psychologically debilitating effects of the disappearance of decent-paying manufacturing and production jobs for those who are not college-educated, and the painful sense of status dislocation that haunts those who are cast off. He makes almost no reference to the past 40 years of deindustrialization or globalization. He does write that "insofar as men need to work to survive - an important proviso - falling hourly income does not discourage work."
Murray seems unaware of the anger and resentment that is part of the lives of men (and women) stuck in menial jobs, laid off with caprice on the part of management, and offhandedly described in the media as "living on savings."
Toward the end of "Coming Apart," Murray expresses his hope for a "Great Civic Awakening" among the new upper class - an awakening that will lead to the kind of "moral rearmament" and paternalism characteristic of anti-poverty drives in the 19th century. To achieve this, Murray believes, the "new upper class must once again fall in love with what makes America different."
This seems to me a weak reed to lean on. The cognitive elites Murray cites are deeply committed to liberal norms of cultural tolerance and permissiveness. The antipathy to the moralism of the religious right has, in fact, been a major force driving these upscale, secular voters into the Democratic party.
A different assessment of what Murray sees as an irredeemable "coming apart" of American society is, however, possible. Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger senior fellow for United States foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, has written a three part series (one, two, three) for the American Interest that takes a fresh approach to the same problems.
Mead, who is no knee-jerk leftie, argues that the
changes in the world economy may be destructive in terms of the old social model, but they are profoundly liberating and benign in and of themselves. The family farm wasn't dying because capitalism had failed or a Malthusian crisis was driving the world to starvation. The family farm died of abundance; it died of the rapidly rising productivity that meant that fewer and fewer people had to work to produce the food on which humanity depended.
Mead continues:
Revolutions in manufacturing and, above all, in communications and information technology create the potential for unprecedented abundance and a further liberation of humanity from meaningless and repetitive work. Our problem isn't that the sources of prosperity have dried up in a long drought; our problem is that we don't know how to swim. It is raining soup, and we are stuck holding a fork.
The 21st century, Mead adds,
must reinvent the American Dream. It must recast our economic, social, familial, educational and political systems for new challenges and new opportunities. Some hallowed practices and institutions will have to go under the bus. But in the end, the changes will make us richer, more free and more secure than we are now.
Mead's predictions may or may not prove prescient, but it is his thinking, more than Murray's, that reflects the underlying optimism that has sustained the United States for more than two centuries - a refusal to believe that anything about human nature is essentially "intractable." Mead's way of looking at things is not only more inviting than Murray's, it is also more on target.

        
The Politics of Going to College
        
Fair Is Fair
        
The Distorted View from Capitol Hill
        
Let's Not Talk About Inequality

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); TRENDS (75%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); CHILDREN (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) "Coming Apart"; Charles Murray; inequality; white working class morale; Jencks, Christopher; Mead, Walter Russell; Murray, Charles; Economic Conditions and Trends; Income Inequality; Intelligence (IQ); Poverty; Sociology; United States; Coming Apart: The State of White America, 1960-2010 (Book); Losing Ground: American Social Policy, 1950-1980 (Book)

PERSON: Jencks, Christopher; Mead, Walter Russell; Murray, Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012



524 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: The Delicately Poised Chemistry of Diplomacy

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: This will be autumn of the patriarch in China, with Hu Jintao stepping down and presumably passing the leadership of the Communist Party to Xi Jinping, the current vice president. Mr. Xi is due to visit the United States this week, starting with meetings at the White House on Tuesday. He and President Obama will likely discuss the delicately poised chemistry of human rights, even as Beijing continues to practice the alchemy of authoritarianism. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - This will be the autumn of the patriarch in China, with Hu Jintao stepping down in the fall and presumably passing the leadership of the Communist Party to the current vice president, Xi Jinping. 
Mr. Xi, the trainee president, arrives in Washington this week for a rare trip to the United States. Business, trade and the global economy will lead the agenda, but Mr. Xi and President Barack Obama will probably get around to the delicately poised chemistry of human rights, to paraphrase Thomas Pynchon, who was writing about another volatile compound, nitroglycerine. 
Meanwhile, Beijing continues to practice the alchemy of authoritarianism, even on the threshold of Mr. Xi's important trip, handing long prison terms to three prominent dissidents in recent weeks. The charge was the same in all three cases: subverting the power of the state.
One of these dastardly felons, the poet Zhu Yufu, got a seven-year sentence for writing a 76-word poem. That works out to more than a month per word. (A translation of the poem, "It's Time," is on Rendezvous here) 
There is, as Beijing admits, a damaging trust gap: "The level of mutual trust between China and the U.S. is lagging behind what is required for the further development of our bilateral relations," said the deputy foreign minister, Cui Tiankai, acknowledging a "trust deficit.''
Sophie Richardson, China director for Human Rights Watch, called for Mr. Obama to have two anti-Beijing activists visit the White House - the writer Yu Jie, who defected last month, and the Uighur leader Rebiya Kadeer- before Mr. Xi came to tea.
Those visits didn't happen, not even a drive-by photo op, although the White House said Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. had met with Li Xiaorong, a founding member of the groupHuman Rights in China.
The group called for the U.S. administration to "press the Chinese government to end the crackdown on rights activists that has dramatically worsened over the past year.''
"The Chinese authorities need to immediately stop condoning the use of extralegal means - including torture, disappearance, and illegal detentions and house arrests - to silence government critics,'' the group said in a statement on its Web site.
The State Department recently allowed Gary Locke, the ambassador to China, to tune up China a little bit on American TV. Of the current human rights climate in China, Mr. Locke told Charlie Rose, "We seem to be in a down period, and it's getting worse." 
Mr. Locke said "a significant crackdown on dissent'' was underway because the Communist leadership is "very concerned about maintaining domestic tranquility and stability.''
A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman dismissed Mr. Locke's remarks, saying they were "inconsistent with the facts," an often-heard trope that translates to: "Mind your own business.''
Mr. Xi, on paper, would seem to be a proto-progressive. As my colleagues Michael Wines and Edward Wong wrote in their curtain-raiser to Mr. Xi's trip: "Unlike the parochial Mr. Hu, Mr. Xi, 58, is well-traveled and intimately familiar with the West. His daughter attends Harvard, and he is said to enjoy Hollywood films about World War II. (Mr. Hu is said to be a Russophile.)''
The China scholar David Shambaugh said he would be watching to see if Mr. Xi will be "sufficiently confident to all the relaxation of tightened controls on mainstream media, social media, the Internet and educational institutions.''
Internet censorship and the "Great Firewall" has been a chronic point of contention between China and the West, and Mr. Locke said Beijing "must have armies of censors watching over the Internet.'' It might be a bridge too far to expect Mr. Obama to go Ronald Reagan on his guest, no ringing call for "Mr. Xi, tear down this wall.''
Mr. Shambaugh said he and other China watchers also will be eager to see if Mr. Xi can "devise a more humane policy toward Tibet and Xinjiang, where ethnic unrest has steadily risen since 2008 and has spiked in recent weeks.'' 
"Government security forces have responded with a heavy hand, resulting in loss of life and heightened instability,'' said Mr. Shambaugh, director of the China Policy Program in the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University. " A new, softer approach is needed.''
In Tibet and western Sichuan Province, a wave of self-immolations by monks and everyday Tibetans has angered ethnic Tibetans and unnerved the security officials there.
"That's why we need dialogue,'' Lobsang Sangay, the Tibetan prime minister in exile, told Rendezvous in a telephone interview from Dharamsala, India. "Our envoys have been to Beijing. Nine times since January of 2010. There's a process in place.''
Is he hopeful?
"That's difficult to say,'' said Mr. Sangay, who took over the Dalai Lama's political duties last summer. "The things happening now, they hurt the Tibetan people, and it hurts China's image with the world.''
In the meantime, even with an important foreign visit in the offing, Beijing continues with its crackdown on dissent. Who'd have thought that poetry, essays and chants were fissile materials?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); SENTENCING (74%); HOUSE ARREST (74%); PRISONS (74%); CENSORSHIP (74%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); ARRESTS (69%); FELONIES (69%); WEB SITES (50%) Biden, Joseph R Jr; Hu Jintao; Locke, Gary; Obama, Barack; Xi Jinping; Yu Jie; Zhu Yufu; Appointments and Executive Changes; Censorship; Human Rights and Human Rights Violations; Poetry and Poets; Political Prisoners; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Human Rights in China; Human Rights Watch; State Department; Beijing (China); China; Dharamsala (India); Sichuan Province (China); Tibet; United States; Washington (State); Xinjiang (China); Featured; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (82%) Human Rights in China; Human Rights Watch; State Department

PERSON: XI JINPING (94%); HU JINTAO (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GARY LOCKE (89%); JOE BIDEN (77%); CHARLIE ROSE (50%) Biden, Joseph R Jr; Hu Jintao; Locke, Gary; Obama, Barack; Xi Jinping; Yu Jie; Zhu Yufu

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); XINJIANG, CHINA (73%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); SICHUAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TIBET (92%); HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (79%) Beijing (China); China; Dharamsala (India); Sichuan Province (China); Tibet; United States; Washington (State); Xinjiang (China)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



525 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: City Is Cited for Its Initiatives in Fighting Poverty

BYLINE: KATE TAYLOR


HIGHLIGHT: An initiative by the Bloomberg administration to battle poverty has won an award for innovation from the Harvard Kennedy School. 

 BODY:
A city office that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg created in 2006 to try new approaches to battling poverty has won an award for innovation from the Harvard Kennedy School, the mayor announced in his weekly radio address on Sunday.
The office, known as the Center for Economic Opportunity, has used a mix of public and private money to test initiatives that include giving cash rewards to encourage poor people to stay in school or receive preventive medical care. 
"In government, you strive to make a difference and improve the lives of others, not win awards," Mr. Bloomberg said in his radio address. "But we're always grateful when our hard work and ambition are recognized by those we respect."
The award, called the Innovations in American Government Award, has been given annually since 1986 by the Kennedy Center's Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation to recognize particularly innovative and effective government programs. The center received roughly 500 applications for the award this year; the winner is chosen by a national selection committee.
Julie Boatright Wilson, the Harry Kahn Senior Lecturer in Social Policy at the Kennedy School, who evaluated the Center for Economic Opportunity for the selection committee, said she was impressed by Mr. Bloomberg's ability to convince private foundations to support the center's programs, as well as the center's commitment to measuring the effectiveness of its initiatives and ending or changing those that did not produce results.
"You really get his sense of measuring performance and wanting to know how you're doing," she said of Mr. Bloomberg's approach.
The Ash Center, in giving the award, highlighted two Center for Economic Opportunity programs in particular: one focused on providing training and job placement in high-growth industries and another aimed at increasing graduation rates at the city's community colleges.
In the case of the first program, Ms. Wilson said the city had been particularly effective in seeking information from potential employers and therefore was able to adjust its programs as economic conditions changed; one example was noting that airport jobs had declined while jobs in the trucking industry increased. 
"It's this constant process of knowing these segments, staying on top of it, figuring out how to best prepare the labor force for these jobs," Ms. Wilson said of the city's efforts. "They're not sitting back and waiting for these people to come to them."
The program for community college students provides financial support and also matches students with academic and career advisers. Ms. Wilson said that several students whom she interviewed said their relationships with their advisers were particularly important. One young woman, for example, said that her adviser had helped her figure out how to explain to her family that the demands of her school work extended beyond the school day, meaning that she could not pitch in around the house as much caring for other family members.
Of students like her, Ms. Wilson said, "A lot of them don't have the peer support network that can give them this information."
The Center for Economic Opportunity spends $100 million on such programs annually. It has also received federal money to replicate some of its programs in other cities.
New York City has won the Innovations in American Government Award 11 times before. In 1996, it was recognized for Compstat, the program the Police Department uses to track crime statistics. Most recently, in 2008, it was recognized for a $230 million public-private partnership created by Mr. Bloomberg to help meet his affordable housing goals. 

        
Bloomberg Says He Pays Highest Tax Rate and Opposes Hedge Fund Break
        
Bloomberg Takes On Union With Education Proposals
        
At Mayor's Interfaith Breakfast, Some Respectful Dissents
        
New Yorkers' Life Expectancy Reaches 80.6 Years, Higher Than National Rate
        
Mayor Criticizes Judge for Releasing Murder Suspect

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); MAYORS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); GRADUATION RATES (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); TRUCKING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); TRUCKING (50%) Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; City Hall

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



526 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Raise New York's Minimum Wage

 BODY:
New York is an expensive place to live, and unaffordable for workers struggling on $7.25 an hour, the federal minimum wage. Nineteen other states, recognizing that the federal minimum is too low for survival, even with food stamps or other government assistance, have increased their minimum above that level. Lawmakers in Massachusetts raised it to $8 an hour. Connecticut's is $8.25, and it is $9.04 an hour in Washington State. 
It is time for New York to raise its minimum wage enough to help more than 600,000 struggling workers. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver is vigorously pushing a bill to raise the minimum to $8.50 an hour immediately and to adjust it each year for inflation. This should not be a controversial measure.
Gov. Andrew Cuomo supports an increase, as does Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Only Republican state senators are resisting, using the same stale argument that a minimum wage increase is bad for business. The Senate Republican leader, Dean Skelos, argues that the measure ''could be a job killer rather than a job promoter.'' That contention has been proved wrong time and again.
There is plenty of evidence showing than an increase can actually help the economy, because people with lower incomes spend a larger share of their paycheck immediately on clothes, food and other goods and services. That money often goes right back into the local economy.
Mr. Silver said he also plans to expand tax reductions for married couples earning less than $30,000 a year as another way to give incomes a boost. But he is starting with a minimum wage increase because, as he puts it, ''People who work full time should not be poor.'' That makes good sense for working families and their communities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); FAMILY (72%); MARRIAGE (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%); ANDREW CUOMO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



527 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: From Bloomberg, a Magazine Catering to the Luxury Market

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK

 BODY:
A Wall Street executive posing in front of a garage full of red Ferraris isn't the populist choice for a magazine cover given the current economic climate.
But Bloomberg L.P. isn't aiming for the 99 percent with its new luxury magazine, Bloomberg Pursuits, which will be distributed twice a year beginning this week to customers who subscribe to the company's financial data terminals and receive the related Bloomberg Markets magazine. 
The magazine, sent to an audience with an average annual household income of more than $450,000, represents a tiny pocket of the print publishing world that is thriving, even as its mass-market counterparts face a slump in newsstand sales.
''In luxury, paper is still king,'' said Samir Husni, a journalism professor at the University of Mississippi who tracks new magazines.
Chanel, Cartier and Porsche have all bought ads in the first issue of Bloomberg Pursuits; 29 of the magazine's 72 pages are ads. ''These advertisers view digital editions as a very disposable thing. You wave your hand and it's gone,'' Professor Husni said.
In the quarter that ended Dec. 31, advertising pages at many consumer magazines, especially celebrity publications and women's magazines, fell, according to the Association of Magazine Media. Us Weekly's ad pages fell 32.6 percent, People was down 10.1 percent and Glamour had a 19 percent drop from the same period a year earlier, the report said.
Meanwhile, publications like Departures, a lifestyle magazine published by American Express and sent to platinum and centurion cardholders, the Financial Times' monthly luxury magazine How to Spend It and WSJ., the glossy magazine enclosed in The Wall Street Journal's weekend issue, have grown.
In the quarter that ended Dec. 31, advertising revenue for Departures has increased by 46.2 percent and its pages have jumped by 39.4 percent from the same period a year ago, according to the Association of Magazine Media. Begun in 2008 as a quarterly publication, WSJ. will publish 10 issues this year.
Pursuits (which has the same name as a short-lived Wall Street Journal weekend leisure section) will be sent to 375,000 readers, with 60 percent of those living outside the United States, the company said. That demographic influenced features in the first issue, like one about wealthy Chinese buying vineyards in the Bordeaux region of France.
''Our readers spend a lot of time in the electronic world, but when it comes to lifestyle, it's wonderful to sit back and read stories in a way only magazines can convey,'' said Michael Dukmejian, publisher of Bloomberg Markets and Bloomberg Pursuits.
Bloomberg Markets and Pursuits have their own staff but will share resources with the wider company. (It's separate from Businessweek, Bloomberg's weekly magazine sold on newsstands and through traditional subscriptions.)
Mr. Dukmejian said that Pursuits had its readers in mind and that he wasn't worried that the conspicuous consumption celebrated in the magazine might seem tone-deaf. Added a company spokesman, Drew Kerr: ''It's a very closed audience. Pursuits is poly-bagged with Bloomberg Markets so it's not like we're flaunting Ferraris on newsstands.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The premiere issue of Bloomberg Pursuits, which will be distributed twice a year to Bloomberg terminal customers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (76%); NEWSSTANDS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (94%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (56%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (94%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



528 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Egypt's Unwise Course

 BODY:
In Egypt, it's unlikely that any group receives more money from foreign sources than the military -- roughly $1.3 billion in United States government aid per year, more than $39 billion over the last three decades. 
Yet, the generals who have controlled the country since President Hosni Mubarak was ousted a year ago have started a preposterous crusade against civil society groups that on average get far less per year from foreign sources, most of it from the United States.
Their paranoid argument? That the groups -- which do voter and poll-worker training among other things -- are ''foreign hands'' out to destroy Egypt at a time of unprecedented unrest. The generals portray themselves as defenders of the country's sovereignty.
The army is under fire at home for holding back the democratic tide, abusing civilians even more than Mr. Mubarak and failing to govern effectively, so it is using America as a scapegoat. The confrontation is poisoning relations with a key ally at a time when Egypt needs all the friends it can get. It is diverting attention from solving the country's profoundly serious problems: continued political turmoil and looming economic meltdown.
On Dec. 29, security forces raided as many as nine nongovernmental groups in Cairo, including three American-financed democracy-building groups -- the International Republican Institute, the National Democratic Institute and Freedom House. Employees were hauled in for questioning in a bogus criminal investigation.
Since then, 43 foreign and local activists -- including Sam LaHood, son of the transportation secretary, and 18 other Americans -- were barred from leaving Egypt and their cases referred to a criminal court. On Wednesday, one judge overseeing the probe vaguely outlined some charges. The Obama administration and Congress have rightly warned that aid may be cut because Egypt doesn't meet pro-democracy conditions in United States law.
Egypt's prime minister was talking tough on Wednesday, saying the case would not be influenced by the aid, which is 20 percent of the military budget and has bought hardware like jet fighters. But Egypt -- where people clamor for jobs, food and education -- unquestionably does need foreign direct investment and debt relief.
Alienating powerful countries like the United States, creating an environment in which groups that help build durable democratic institutions cannot operate and intimidating Egyptian civil society are a recipe for disaster.
The top American military leader -- Gen. Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff -- discussed the issue with Egypt's military ruler, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, in Cairo Saturday. They did not reveal any outcomes, but Field Marshal Tantawi told his government that ties with America are important. We hope that suggests the Egyptians are finally looking for a way to put this damaging incident behind them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (70%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); JUDGES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOM HOUSE (54%); INTERNATIONAL REPUBLICAN INSTITUTE (54%); NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (54%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (73%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (88%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



529 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: The View From the S.E.C.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''S.E.C. Is Avoiding Tough Sanctions for Large Banks'' (front page, Feb. 3) seems to suggest that the Securities and Exchange Commission should mindlessly withhold its various waiver authorities to address unrelated securities violations. 
Under the approach implied in your article, for example, an S.E.C. action against an investment bank -- for the conduct of one of its divisions -- could have the perverse effect of prohibiting that firm from managing mutual funds in a different division or subsidiary. Once abandoned by their advisers, these ''orphaned funds'' could run the risk of serious losses, and customers could lose access to their money.
Similarly, it makes no sense for the commission to impose an unnecessary and artificial delay on a firm's access to the capital markets for wholly unrelated conduct, especially if a delay would provide no benefit to investors and may harm the markets. We do, however, withhold such waivers where investors would benefit from the withholding.
The article also doesn't mention that the agency's statutory mandate requires us to maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets and facilitate capital formation.
The S.E.C. is committed to aggressively pursuing market participants who violate the securities laws. The agency filed more enforcement actions last year than at any time in its history, many of which involved the highly complex products and practices that contributed to the financial crisis.
MEREDITH CROSS EILEEN ROMINGER ROBERT KHUZAMI Washington, Feb. 6, 2012
The writers are directors of corporation finance, investment management and enforcement, respectively, at the Securities and Exchange Commission.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); WRITERS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



530 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
Buffalo Wild Wings, Minneapolis, the chain of restaurants-sports bars, is making changes to its agency roster for 2012. Fallon, Minneapolis, part of the Publicis Groupe, was named lead creative agency for the chain, which spends more than $60 million a year on advertising. The assignment had been handled by 22squared, Atlanta, which will continue to handle media planning and create promotional materials to be used in the restaurants. Another agency joining the roster, in addition to Fallon, is Space150, for social media. Horizon Media will continue to handle media buying and Fleishman-Hillard will remain the agency for public relations.
Atlantic City Alliance chose two Havas agencies, Euro RSCG New York and MPG, for a new assignment, promoting Atlantic City to potential visitors. The budget for the first year of a television, print and online campaign is estimated at $20 million. The alliance is composed of casino owners and the State of New Jersey; the money for the campaign will come from the casino owners. Euro RSCG New York is part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide division of Havas Worldwide, owned by Havas, and MPG is part of the Havas Media division of Havas. 
Extended Stay Hotels, Charlotte, N.C., named Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., as agency of record on its account, which had no recent previous agency. Spending was estimated at $17 million to $20 million.
People
Carter Murray, chief executive at Y&R North America, part of the Y&R division of the Young & Rubicam Group, was also named chief executive of the Y&R New York operation, assuming duties from Tom Sebok, president and chief executive of Y&R New York, who is leaving, the agency said, ''to pursue other opportunities.'' (Mr. Murray had replaced Mr. Sebok as chief executive at Y&R North America last year.) The change was part of a reorganization that included naming Sean Howard, global client services director at the Seattle office of Wunderman, also part of the Young & Rubicam Group, to the new post of general manager of Y&R New York, and merging the BrandBuzz unit of Y&R into Y&R New York. The Young & Rubicam Group is owned by WPP.
Miscellany
Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, laid off employees after the departures of two large clients, Hewlett-Packard and Sprint. The agency did not disclose the number of layoffs or what percentage of its total staff would be dismissed. Adweek.com estimated that at least 100 people were being let go, or about 14 percent of a staff of more than 700. Other agencies that recently laid off employees include Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners; Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP; and Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe.
Anomaly, New York, part of MDC Partners, will open an office in Toronto, becoming the third MDC American agency with an office there; the others are Crispin Porter & Bogusky and Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners. Anomaly also has offices in Amsterdam and London.
Two consumers whose commercials for Doritos were selected to run during Super Bowl XLVI as part of the brand's annual Crash the Super Bowl contest have each received $1 million bonuses because the commercials finished atop the USA Today/Facebook Super Bowl Ad Meter. Jonathan Friedman won the bonus because his spot, ''Man's Best Friend,'' finished first in the initial part of the Ad Meter, chosen by focus-group panels composed of 286 people in McLean, Va., and Phoenix. Kevin Willson won the bonus because his spot, ''Sling Baby,'' finished No. 1 in the second part of the ad meter, chosen by the public in a vote online. This was the sixth year of the contest and the fourth in a row that commercials for Doritos finished first, tied for first or second in the Ad Meter. Doritos is sold by the Frito-Lay division of PepsiCo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); BUDGETS (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); DISMISSALS (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (61%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (95%); HAVAS SA (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (83%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (60%); BUFFALO WILD WINGS INC (58%); FLEISHMAN-HILLARD INC (57%); ZIMMERMAN ADVERTISING LLC (55%); YOUNG & RUBICAM GROUP LTD (54%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%); MDC PARTNERS INC (50%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (50%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (95%); HAV (PAR) (92%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); BWLD (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%); MDZ.A (TSX) (50%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (76%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



531 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GRADING THE DIGITAL SCHOOL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: Mooresville's Shining Example (It's Not Just About the Laptops)

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

 BODY:
MOORESVILLE, N.C. -- Sixty educators from across the nation roamed the halls and ringed the rooms of East Mooresville Intermediate School, searching for the secret formula. They found it in Erin Holsinger's fifth-grade math class.
There, a boy peering into his school-issued MacBook blitzed through fractions by himself, determined to reach sixth-grade work by winter. Three desks away, a girl was struggling with basic multiplication -- only 29 percent right, her screen said -- and Ms. Holsinger knelt beside her to assist. Curiosity was fed and embarrassment avoided, as teacher connected with student through emotion far more than Wi-Fi.
''This is not about the technology,'' Mark Edwards, superintendent of Mooresville Graded School District, would tell the visitors later over lunch. ''It's not about the box. It's about changing the culture of instruction -- preparing students for their future, not our past.''
As debate continues over whether schools invest wisely in technology -- and whether it measurably improves student achievement -- Mooresville, a modest community about 20 miles north of Charlotte best known as home to several Nascar teams and drivers, has quietly emerged as the de facto national model of the digital school. 
Mr. Edwards spoke on a White House panel in September, and federal Department of Education officials often cite Mooresville as a symbolic success. Overwhelmed by requests to view the programs in action, the district now herds visitors into groups of 60 for monthly demonstrations; the waiting list stretches to April. What they are looking for is an explanation for the steady gains Mooresville has made since issuing laptops three years ago to the 4,400 4th through 12th graders in five schools (three K-3 schools are not part of the program).
The district's graduation rate was 91 percent in 2011, up from 80 percent in 2008. On state tests in reading, math and science, an average of 88 percent of students across grades and subjects met proficiency standards, compared with 73 percent three years ago. Attendance is up, dropouts are down. Mooresville ranks 100th out of 115 districts in North Carolina in terms of dollars spent per student -- $7,415.89 a year -- but it is now third in test scores and second in graduation rates.
''Other districts are doing things, but what we see in Mooresville is the whole package: using the budget, innovating, using data, involvement with the community and leadership,'' said Karen Cator, a former Apple executive who is director of educational technology for the United States Department of Education. ''There are lessons to be learned.''
Start with math lessons: each student's MacBook Air is leased from Apple for $215 a year, including warranty, for a total of $1 million; an additional $100,000 a year goes for software. Terry Haas, the district's chief financial officer, said the money was freed up through ''incredibly tough decisions.''
Sixty-five jobs were eliminated, including 37 teachers, which resulted in larger class sizes -- in middle schools, it is 30 instead of 18 -- but district officials say they can be more efficiently managed because of the technology. Some costly items had become obsolete (like computer labs), though getting rid of others tested the willingness of teachers to embrace the new day: who needs globes in the age of Google Earth?
Families pay $50 a year to subsidize computer repairs, though the fee is waived for those who cannot afford it, about 18 percent of them. Similarly, the district has negotiated a deal so that those without broadband Internet access can buy it for $9.99 a month. Mr. Edwards said the technology had helped close racial performance gaps in a district where 27 percent of the students are minorities and 40 percent are poor enough to receive free or reduced-price lunches.
Others see broader economic benefits.
''Even in the downturn, we're a seller's market -- people want to buy homes here,'' said Kent Temple, a real estate agent in town. ''Families say, 'This is a chance for my child to compete with families that have more money than me.' Six years from now, you'll see how many from disadvantaged backgrounds go to college and make it.''
Mooresville's laptops perform the same tasks as those in hundreds of other districts: they correct worksheets, assemble progress data for teachers, allow for compelling multimedia lessons, and let students work at their own pace or in groups, rather than all listening to one teacher. The difference, teachers and administrators here said, is that they value computers not for the newest content they can deliver, but for how they tap into the oldest of student emotions -- curiosity, boredom, embarrassment, angst -- and help educators deliver what only people can. Technology, here, is cold used to warm.
Mooresville frequently tests students in various subjects to inform teachers where each needs help. Every quarter, department heads and principals present summary data to Mr. Edwards, who uses it to assess where teachers need improvement. Special emphasis goes to identifying students who are only a few correct answers away from passing state proficiency standards. They are then told how close they are and, Mr. Edwards said, ''You can, you can, you can.''
Many classrooms have moved from lecture to lattice, where students collaborate in small groups with the teacher swooping in for consultation. Rather than tell her 11th-grade English students the definition of transcendentalism one recent day, Katheryn Higgins had them crowd-source their own -- quite Thoreauly, it turned out -- using Google Docs. Back in September, Ms. Higgins had the more outgoing students make presentations on the Declaration of Independence, while shy ones discussed it in an online chat room, which she monitored.
''I'm not a very social person, but I have no problem typing on a keyboard,'' said one of those shy ones, Chase Wilson. ''It connected me with other students -- opened me up and helped me with talking in public.''
In math, students used individualized software modules, with teachers stopping by occasionally to answer questions. (''It's like having a personal tutor,'' said Ethan Jones, the fifth grader zooming toward sixth-grade material.) Teachers apportion their time based on the need of students, without the weaker ones having to struggle at the blackboard in front of the class; this dynamic has helped children with learning disabilities to participate and succeed in mainstream classes.
''There are students who might not have graduated five years ago who have graduated,'' said Melody Morrison, a case manager for Mooresville High School's special education programs. ''They're not just our kids anymore. They're everybody's kids -- all teachers throughout the school. The digital conversion has evened the playing field.''
Many students adapted to the overhaul more easily than their teachers, some of whom resented having beloved tools -- scripted lectures, printed textbooks and a predictable flow through the curriculum -- vanish. The layoffs in 2009 and 2010, of about 10 percent of the district's teachers, helped weed out the most reluctant, Mr. Edwards said; others he was able to convince that the technology would actually allow for more personal and enjoyable interaction with students.
''You have to trust kids more than you've ever trusted them,'' he said. ''Your teachers have to be willing to give up control.''
That was the primary concern that the 60 visitors expressed during their daylong sojourn to Mooresville in November. ''I'm not sure our kids can be trusted the way these are,'' one teacher from the Midwest said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid trouble back home.
Thomas Bertrand, superintendent of schools in Rochester, Ill., said he was struck by the ''culture of collaboration among staff and kids'' in Mooresville and would emphasize that as his district considered its own conversion.
''There's a tendency in teaching to try to control things, like a parent,'' said Scott Allen, a high school chemistry teacher in South Granville, N.C. ''But I learn best at my own pace, and you have to realize that students learn best at their own pace, too.''
Mooresville still has some growing pains. In one ninth-grade social studies class, a video that easily could have been shown on a large screen instead went through the students' laptops, several of which balked, ''Unable to find proxy server.'' One fourth grader, having to complete 10 multiplication questions in two minutes for the software to let her move on, simply consulted her times tables, making the lesson more about speed typing than mathematics. And those concerned about corporate encroachment on public schools would blanch at the number of Apple logos in the hallways, and at the district's unofficial slogan: ''iBelieve, iCan, iWill.''
Mooresville's tremendous focus on one data point -- the percentage of students passing proficiency exams -- has its pitfalls as well. At November's quarterly data meeting, there were kudos for several numbers whose rise or dip was not statistically significant, and no recognition that the students who passed by one or two questions could very well fail by one or two the next time around. Several colorful pie charts used metrics that were meaningless.
''I realize the fallacy of looking at one measure,'' Mr. Edwards said in an interview afterward. ''We look at scholarships, A.P. courses taken, honors courses, SAT scores. But the measure that we use is what the state posts, and what parents look at when they're comparing schools moving here.''
After three years of computers permeating every area of their schooling, Mooresville students barely remember life before the transformation and are somewhat puzzled by the gaggle of visitors who watch them every month. (''At times it's kind of like being a lab rat,'' one 11th grader said.) But Mooresville understands its growing fame in the world of education, much of which has yet to find the balance between old tricks and new technology.
''So,'' Ms. Higgins asked her English class after the bell rang, ''you think you're going to like transcendentalism?''
''Only if you're a nonconformist,'' a student cracked.
GRADING THE DIGITAL SCHOOL: Articles in this series are looking at the intersection of education, technology and business as schools embrace digital learning.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MATH: A timed tutorial on multiplication tables, with analog times tables, in a fourth-grade math class.
BREAK TIME: Matthew Ward regroups during class, where each student has a school-issued laptop.
CURIOSITY: Backpacks line a hallway at East Mooresville Intermediate, a favorite stop of educators.
CONNECTING: Tammy Rigby, a fifth-grade science teacher at East Mooresville Intermediate, helping Grace Lateef, left, and Caitlyn Yaede with a class exercise. (A10)
 TEAMWORK: Cameron Parnian, left, and Gordon Muhlestein pondering a lesson on their school-issued MacBook Air laptops. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); MATHEMATICS (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); NASCAR RACING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



532 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals Flout Charity Aid Law

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
For most of her life, Hope Rubel was a healthy woman with good medical insurance, an unblemished credit history and a solid career in graphic design. But on the day an ambulance rushed her to a Manhattan hospital emergency room shortly after her 48th birthday, she was jobless, uninsured and having a stroke.
Ms. Rubel's medical problem was rare, a result of a benign tumor on her adrenal gland, but the financial consequences were not unusual. She depleted her savings to pay $17,000 for surgery to remove the tumor, and then watched, ''emotionally paralyzed,'' she said, as $88,000 in additional hospital bills poured in. Eventually the hospital sued her for the money.
Yet that year the hospital, NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell, had already collected $50.2 million from the state's so-called Indigent Care Pool to help care for people like Ms. Rubel who have no insurance and cannot pay their bills. 
New York's charity care system, partly financed by an 8.95 percent surcharge on hospital bills, is one of the most complicated in the nation, but many states have wrestled with aggressive debt collection by hospitals in recent years. Like New York, several passed laws curbing hospitals' pursuit of unpaid bills, including Illinois, California and Minnesota.
But a new study of New York hospitals' practices and state records finds that most medical centers are violating the rules without consequences, even as the state government ignores glaring problems in the hospitals' own reports.
''The entire system is corrupted, and it isn't working for patients,'' said Elisabeth R. Benjamin, vice president of health initiatives at the Community Service Society of New York, a nonprofit antipoverty group, which is releasing the two-year study on Monday.
The state's Department of Health acknowledges systemic problems, including the need for better reporting and enforcement, a spokesman, Michael Moran, said. A group of patient advocates and hospital administrators is being convened to develop a better system, he said, and the department is engaged in ''a comprehensive data integrity project that will include the retention of an outside auditor.''
The study found that some hospitals did not provide financial aid applications at all, and that many made impermissible demands for irrelevant documents or failed to supply key information, like eligibility rules for big discounts required by state law in 2007. Data reported to the state was obviously faulty, it found.
Yet even hospitals that reported they had spent nothing on financial aid, or had filed hundreds of liens against patients' homes, were allowed to collect without questions from the charity care pool, which distributes more than $1 billion a year.
Hospitals are not legally barred from seeking judgments or liens, but must first offer an aid application, help the patient complete it, and wait while it is pending. Instead, many hospitals turn to collection agencies, and sue when that fails. The unpaid bills -- typically reflecting much higher rates than what insurers pay -- are then treated as the equivalent of charity care.
Change is now urgent, health care experts agree, because the state pool stands to lose hundreds of millions of federal dollars in 2014, when provisions of the health care overhaul will no longer treat so-called bad debt, based on uncollected bills, as if it were charity care.
''There's a law in place, and obviously it should be complied with,'' said David Rich, an executive with the Greater New York Hospital Association, a trade group. But, he added, ''hospitals are providing a lot of charity care at a loss.''
He said hospitals were improving their compliance with the law, which requires aid to patients with income up to 300 percent of the poverty line, or up to $33,000 for a single person. But, often stymied by patients who fail to complete applications for aid, he said, many hospitals have moved to simply deeming some patients eligible without an application, using what he called ''a soft credit check'' at registration to gauge income and assets.
Myrna Manners, a spokeswoman for NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, said that it would be inappropriate to discuss specific cases, but that the hospital ''proactively helps patients at every step'' of the financial aid process. It approved 25,861 applications in 2010, the most recent annual data.
''Where there has been a determination that there is an ability to pay, we still go to all lengths to ensure that we resolve the matter before it becomes a legal action,'' she said.
Court records abound in judgments against patients who say they had little or no chance to apply for help. A couple fighting foreclosure in Elmont, Nassau County, has a $41,000 default judgment from NYU Langone Medical Center for emergency surgery on their disabled adult son in 2007, when their insurance unexpectedly dropped him. He was eventually approved for Medicaid, but it would not pay for the surgery retroactively.
The mother, Myrlene Stimphil, 55, a nurse at a city hospital, said she had sought a reduced payment plan from NYU Langone, but was told only that the hospital would get back to her. Instead, she said, collectors were calling her son, now 24, who suffered brain damage at his premature birth.
''We don't want to be a burden,'' she said, as her husband, Antenor Francois, 56, a former cabdriver, looked through old bills. One announced, ''Welcome to Portfolio Recovery Associates!'' and added that the collection agency ''purchased your account from NYU Hospitals Center.''
Lisa Greiner, a spokeswoman for the hospital, which collected $10.7 million from the charity care pool in 2010, said she could not comment on the case under privacy laws. But the hospital no longer uses that collection agency, and under new leadership in the last three years, its reported financial aid approvals soared to 36,000 in 2010, from 256 in 2008.
Christopher Ward, 49, living in his father's house in White Plains on a $200-a-week disability payment from a workplace spinal injury, recalled stopping at an A.T.M. -- ''just to have something in my pocket to buy food'' -- and discovering that his accounts, totaling less than $4,000, had been seized.
''I tore my hair out for a long time not understanding why all this was happening to me,'' Mr. Ward said, admitting to memory lapses.
Court records show that NewYork-Presbyterian obtained a $102,636 judgment against him in 2007, including 9 percent interest back to 2004, when, uninsured, he underwent emergency surgery for a brain aneurysm. Now his ailing, widowed father, 75, a teacher at Mercy College, worries that anything he leaves for Christopher could be seized.
State hospitals seem to be especially aggressive collectors. State University of New York Downstate Medical Center, in Brooklyn, secures hundreds of judgments annually through the attorney general's office, which says such suits protect the state's interest in case a former patient comes into money.
One picked at random: a $12,000 judgment in 2008 against Cherrilyn McFarlane, a single mother on public assistance, for one day's care for her newborn five years ago, when her Medicaid coverage had briefly lapsed. Ms. McFarlane said the judgment could hurt her plans to seek a student loan for nursing school. ''I want to get it cleared,'' she said.
To Hope Rubel, the greatest fear was that the suit itself would deter employers from hiring her and leave her destitute, she wrote the judge. Finally, she said, a law clerk directed her to the hospital's financial aid department. It said more documents were needed to decide her eligibility.
''I had given them everything,'' she said. In despair after a year of courthouse meetings, she said, she offered $100 a month, and at the court's urging, the hospital's lawyers accepted. ''I'll be paying for the rest of my life,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Myrlene Stimphil and McKenny Francois, her son. She said NYU Langone Medical Center never answered their request for aid.
Christopher Ward lives at his father's house and gets by on a disability check. At left, one of his bills from NewYork- Presbyterian Hospital, which seized his bank accounts.
 Hope Rubel, an unemployed graphic designer, was sued by NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital after receiving $88,000 in bills. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CHARITIES (88%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); STROKES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



533 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: At MSNBC, A Professor As TV Host

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Week seven of Melissa Harris-Perry's introductory course in African-American studies at Tulane University includes a lecture about ''the hollow prize'' -- a theory that African-Americans tend to be elected as mayor only after a city has tipped into economic decline.
One day last summer, when Ms. Harris-Perry was filling in for Rachel Maddow on MSNBC, she recast the class lecture as a television segment, invoking Detroit; her adopted home, New Orleans; President Obama; and tax policy.
''I've given that lecture a million times -- a million times,'' Ms. Harris-Perry said in a recent interview. ''But I do it once on Rachel's show, and it was everywhere the next day. It was up on Web sites, people were e-mailing me -- that, for me, was a really clear indication of how powerful television is.'' 
Now, MSNBC is about to introduce a progressive talk show called ''Melissa Harris-Perry'' on Saturday and Sunday mornings. Ms. Harris-Perry will be the only tenured professor in the United States -- and one of a very small number of African-American women -- who serves as a cable news host.
Is this a sign of the rise of the academic on TV? Though cable news is still stereotyped by some as a 24-7 screaming match, there are now pockets of intellectual stimulation that did not exist a decade ago.
The significance of cable news is growing. A survey released last week by the Pew Research Center found that cable news channels have, for the first time, eclipsed local television newscasts as a regular source of campaign news for the American people.
At MSNBC, ''Morning Joe'' with Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski has become must-see television for politicians and journalists, while Ms. Maddow, a Rhodes scholar, has been lauded for her long, carefully argued essays. Recently, the channel has added several shows with similarities to those two, including ''Now With Alex Wagner'' at noon on weekdays and ''Up w/ Chris Hayes'' on the weekends. Ms. Harris-Perry's show is set to start on Saturday morning and run from 10 to noon.
''Today, our audience thrives on being smart,'' said Phil Griffin, the president of MSNBC. He said he used to worry about outsmarting the audience, but does not anymore, because MSNBC has moved from being ''all things to all people'' to being ''a much more specific channel.'' That change was propelled by the popularity of its left-leaning programs.
''TV answers to the audience,'' said Rick Shenkman, author of ''Just How Stupid Are We? Facing the Truth About the American Voter,'' which blames television in part for dumbing down the American political process. He said MSNBC had been branding itself ''as a partisan network to draw a partisan crowd, following the Fox model.''
''That's proving to be a successful model,'' he said. ''It's the Huffington Post model.''
The newest hosts at MSNBC, Mr. Hayes and Ms. Harris-Perry, like to say they are Harry Potter and Hermione. Both were groomed by Ms. Maddow and her 9 p.m. program, first as unpaid guests, then as paid contributors and finally as substitute hosts.
Mr. Hayes, an editor for the liberal newsmagazine The Nation, started hosting the unapologetically specialized ''Up'' in September, in MSNBC's first expansion of point-of-view programming on the weekends. ''Up'' has averaged about 375,000 total viewers, 25 percent more than the newscast shown previously in the time slot, and about 130,000 viewers ages 25 to 54, on par with the previous newscast.
Mr. Hayes said last week: ''The postbroadcast universe is incredibly liberating. The show I'm doing now, I can't imagine a universe in which it would get two million viewers. But we can beat CNN. And increasingly, we are.''
And so Mr. Hayes has spent 25 minutes on the subject of mass incarceration, and 30 minutes on Internet antipiracy legislation, and two hours on the consequences of the war in Iraq -- topics that are rarely tackled at length elsewhere on television.
Sometimes it has taken five minutes, he said, to get past the talking points that are familiar to any cable news viewer. ''But we have the luxury of time,'' he said. In one recent segment, he and his guests stopped assessing the possible electoral effects of a reignited national debate about abortion and tried to answer something more fundamental: is a fetus a person?
''When we get it right, it's in making the subtext the text,'' Mr. Hayes said.
A typical hour of ''Up'' features a panel of four, and at least some of the panel members are people rarely seen on other TV shows -- another benefit of the postbroadcast news universe Mr. Hayes describes.
With more hours of political talk comes more on-air time for guests of diverse backgrounds. During a Feb. 3 visit to Ms. Harris-Perry's windowless office at Rockefeller Center, a whiteboard bearing unfamiliar names gave evidence of that. In an interview that day, she recounted numerous times when she had watched political strategists on TV and wondered why political scientists had not been booked instead.
''Part of the way I end up here is, I think the ivory tower has a ton of brilliant information that doesn't show up for ordinary people,'' she said. She has studied media stereotypes in the past, including for a book about black political thought.
Ms. Harris-Perry herself has had little trouble getting booked on TV throughout the years, first on the Chicago station WGN while teaching at the University of Chicago and later on CNN, ''Democracy Now'' and ''Bill Moyers Journal'' while teaching at Princeton.
Although she had attained tenure at Princeton, the Center for African American Studies there declined to promote her to full professor -- a vote of no confidence that led her to leave for Tulane in 2010. Her second husband, James Perry, who ran for mayor of New Orleans in 2010, already lived there. She plans to spend Monday to Thursday in New Orleans and fly to New York for her show on the weekends.
Ms. Harris-Perry never used a teleprompter until she was asked to fill in for Ms. Maddow for a week in July. (She practiced with an iPad teleprompter application during a trip beforehand, ''which led to hilarity on the part of my then 9-year-old,'' she said.)
Mr. Griffin and his MSNBC colleagues were immediately impressed, and talk began about a regular TV show for Ms. Harris-Perry. But she had ruled out a five-day-a-week show commitment until her daughter, now 10, was in college.
Then Mr. Hayes's program began. ''When Chris blew open the weekends, I thought, 'Oh, well I'm not doing anything on Saturdays and Sundays,' '' she said jokingly. Her husband and daughter plan to join her in New York each weekend.
Ms. Harris-Perry says she wants to be very careful not to let her television voice -- one of nearly instant opinion -- affect her academic writing. But she does want to bring the academic world to television, and even imagines showing portions of her classes on her show someday.
Mr. Griffin's advice, she said, was straightforward: ''You have to earn the trust of your audience.''
Rephrasing it her way, Ms. Harris-Perry said, ''They'll go with you to nerdland, but you have to earn their trust.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Melissa Harris-Perry last week on the set of her MSNBC show, which has its debut on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (57%); TAXES & TAXATION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



534 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Europe Ponders Wider Roaming Fee Cap

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
BERLIN -- European lawmakers, who two years ago capped fees for mobile data roaming within the European Union at 50 a month, want to expand the protection to cover the whole world.
The proposal is part of a plan to extend Europe's five-year-old limits on charges for voice, text and data roaming through 2022 and is likely go to a European Parliament vote by April. The current limits are set to expire in July.
Extending the price controls is considered likely, but the rates proposed for the new limits through 2014 have been criticized by consumer advocates as too high, exceeding existing prices in Sweden and some other E.U. countries. 
''Europe's millions of smartphone customers will continue to face rip-off data roaming prices unless European institutions take real action now,'' said Bengt Beier, an organizer of Europeans for Fair Roaming, an advocacy group with 130,000 members campaigning for a reduction in roaming fees far beyond what is proposed in the new legislation.
Mr. Beier said the data roaming fee for consumers should be cut to 10 euro cents, or $0.13, a megabyte by 2014 instead of the proposed 20 cents; it would be 50 cents until then. He also called for operators to charge each other 3 cents to 5 cents a megabyte instead of the proposed 10 cents by 2014; the rate is 25 cents now.
''European politicians have long promised us prices for roaming services that are near domestic rates,'' he said in an interview after a hearing on the issue in Brussels held by the European People's Party, the conservative coalition and biggest group in the European Parliament. ''Now they have to practice what they preach and actually drive prices down.''
Under the proposal the cost of roaming on voice calls would drop from 35 cents a minute to 25 cents on July 1 and to 15 cents by 2014. The cost of receiving a call would drop from 11 cents to 7 cents in July and to 5 cents in 2014. The price for sending a text message would fall to 8 cents in July this year and to 5 cents in July 2014.
The proposal would require that the controls remain in place until 2022 but would set specific limits only through 2015. By then, lawmakers would reconvene to adjust the caps for the next three-year period.
If the global limit on mobile roaming charges that is part of the proposal is approved for European customers of Telefonica of Spain, Deutsche Telekom of Germany, Vodafone of England and Orange of France, among others, carriers in other parts of the world -- including the United States -- could come under pressure to lower their fees.
Most roaming charges are set by commercial agreements between operators. Faced with new limits, European carriers may try to renegotiate existing agreements with non-E.U. operators to lower roaming charges and their own costs significantly, one expert said.
''There would be a drastic impact on the business aspect of mobile operators if this were extended globally,'' said Mikael Schachne, a vice president of mobile services at BICS, a Brussels-based operator owned by Belgacom, Swisscom and the pan-African operator MTN. ''This would be a sharp constraint to mobile operators to their roaming business.''
Advocates for large businesses have also called on lawmakers to cut the proposed caps drastically to stimulate the use of mobile telephony in Europe, where the many borders make for roaming charges and bill shock.
Under the current rate of 50 cents, a European traveler who used 500 megabytes of data during a two-week vacation, which is routine, would end up paying 250 plus value added taxes, just in roaming charges. The cost would fall to 100 plus taxes in 2014, when the proposed retail cap is to decline to 20 cents a megabyte.
The business advocates see the high cost of data roaming as an obstacle holding the Continent back from using mobile business management technology that is standard in more unified markets like the United States.
Daniel Lebeau, the vice president of management and information systems at GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, the vaccination unit of the global pharmaceutical maker in Rixensart, Belgium, said the company had advised the 13,000 employees working in the unit to avoid using mobile network data when roaming.
''We tell them to look for Wi-Fi options whenever they can,'' Mr. Lebeau said. ''Our costs are exploding for mobile data.''
Laurent Bonherbe, the global technology group manager for The Coca-Cola Company in Europe, said the proposed price caps on data roaming were a multiple of the actual cost of service. Mr. Bonherbe oversees 2,000 employees who routinely cross borders on business. Unlike the situation in the United States, Mr. Bonherbe said employees in Europe cannot use basic mobile tools like e-mail, Skype or efficiency programs because of prohibitive roaming costs.
''When our employees cross a border, they are instructed to turn off data roaming on their devices,'' Mr. Bonherbe said. ''The retail caps that are being proposed are still too high and have no real connection with reality. This seems to be in direct contradiction to Europe's stated goal of wanting to pursue a digital agenda for the Continent.''
Neelie Kroes, the European commissioner who has proposed extending the price controls, has also sought to create a second market for roaming by giving E.U. citizens the right to purchase roaming service separately. But some experts are skeptical that the plan would work, given the technical and billing adjustments that would be required to make it possible.
Also, lawmakers from France have inserted an ''escape clause'' into a draft of the legislation that would exempt phone operators from allowing their customers to buy roaming service from competitors if an operator's roaming tariffs is ''similar'' to its domestic rates.
''This would basically result in nothing happening significantly to better competition in Europe,'' said Innocenzo Genna, a lobbyist representing a group of virtual network operators.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Neelie Kroes, the European Union commissioner for telecommunications, proposed extending controls on roaming charges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGES GOBET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (57%)

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (58%); DTE (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%)

PERSON: NEELIE KROES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (92%); SWEDEN (79%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



535 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; METROPOLITAN DIARY; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Driving Through a Downturn and Other Reader Tales

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY:
On a particularly balmy day last month, my boyfriend and I were walking on 14th Street when we noticed a young man near the curb. Leaning on a Muni-Meter, the man was trying to mount a unicycle.
We stopped to witness this unusual sight. Sure enough, he got himself onto the unicycle effortlessly and rode away down a crowded sidewalk. We laughed and wondered what his story was -- could he be a clown on his way uptown to the Big Apple Circus? 
But we were not the only curious ones. An older couple strolling arm in arm shared their hypothesis with us as they passed by. ''In this economy,'' the woman offered, ''who can afford a second wheel?''
Lily Shoretz
Dear Diary:
Romantic scene: An M5 bus heading up Avenue of the Americas at the evening rush hour.
An elderly couple was sitting on the sideways front seat, he very tall and beautifully dressed, she short and plump with shiny black shoes.
Suddenly, those of us nearby heard him say loudly and angrily, ''What do you want from me?'' As we all strained to listen but tried not to reveal our rude curiosity, their spat continued.
We didn't hear it all, but we heard her say, ''See, you treat me so mean.'' At another point, she said, ''When I die, you'll be lost.''
This argument proceeded apace as we hung on to every word we could manage to hear, fearing that this was a doomed relationship indeed, probably of many, many years' standing.
They got off the bus at Columbus Circle, he helping her off in a gentlemanly fashion. They then walked up Central Park West holding hands. We passengers breathed a happy sigh of relief. They were obviously still sweethearts -- but perhaps with issues.
Joan Wile
Dear Diary:
I drove down from Connecticut before the holidays for the premiere of a film hosted by the Gustav Mahler Society of New York. The showing was in an auditorium near Lincoln Center.
Wanting to know what I'd most likely be getting into with parking, I spent some time with a detailed map of that part of town. The map spoke to me: West 61st Street, between Broadway and Columbus Avenue.
To my astonishment, there was a parking space on 61st Street. I was early for the showing and waited in the car.
A man came to the window.
''When are you leaving?''
''Not until 9:30 or so.''
''Would you call me so that I can have the space? There's a case of beer in it for you. If I get the space, I'll be good for the weekend.''
I told him that the beer wasn't necessary, and that I'd call him.
A few minutes later, a second man came to the window, asking about the space. I told him there was a taker already lined up. Disheartened, he left.
After the Mahler showing, I called the first man, only to find out he'd already found another spot. He was surprised, grateful that I'd called.
I headed for Connecticut.
Frank Creane
Dear Diary:
Our American Airlines flight from Chicago to La Guardia had just landed.
The announcement: ''Ladies and gentlemen, we have arrived 20 minutes early. Please remember this when your future American Airlines flight is delayed.''
Tom Frenkel
Dear Diary:
After a brief, brief glimpse into what winter would feel like if New York suddenly found itself in Los Angeles, I awoke once again to snow-covered sidewalks.
As I empathized with my friends' frustrations of having to dig out their cars one more time, I couldn't help but remember a scene from a winter morning several years ago:
I had come out of the F train at 23rd Street heading east when I noticed a flurry of snowflakes. As I crossed Avenue of the Americas, I caught not one or two but three grown-ups with big smiles, their tongues out, happily catching snowflakes as they crossed the street.
While I am sure that most New Yorkers have come to dread snow by now, it's good to know that some of us are still kids at heart.
Ron Mouadeb
Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number; upon request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and may be republished and adapted in all media.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%)

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS LTD (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711190 OTHER PERFORMING ARTS COMPANIES (71%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



536 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: Helping Indian Tribes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''An Indian Reservation in Crime's Deadly Grip'' (front page, Feb. 3) correctly draws attention to the problems of Indian reservations in the United States. Especially striking was the statistic that more than 80 percent of the residents of Wind River Indian Reservation (Wyo.) are unemployed. 
The economic downturn has hit Indian country much harder than other parts of the nation. And without the ability to generate revenue and provide jobs for tribal members, we will perpetuate a cycle of poverty.
The article also correctly points out that many reservations face harsh geographic challenges, limiting many tribes from being able to develop commerce and industry for their members. Luckily, we can find a solution to these problems in e-commerce. This business model has provided hope to Indian country.
We formed the Native American Lending Alliance to create new pathways for tribes to responsibly engage in e-commerce initiatives, providing new jobs and revenues to those in Indian country who need it most. And we are blazing new trails for our members.
While there are real problems in Indian country, merely doubling or tripling the number of police is a short-term solution. Only economic development and jobs can address the systemic problems that tribes face today.
MERLE ST.
CLAIRE Belcourt, N.D., Feb. 6, 2012
The writer is the tribal chairman of the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa, North Dakota, and a board member of the Native American Lending Alliance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (92%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



537 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Burning Man Festival Regulars Lose Out on Ticket Sales

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- With six months to go until the weeklong desert festival, Burning Man is already keeping people up at night.
And it is not because of nonstop techno music or scantily clad fire dancers, either.
Festivalgoers from around the country are distressed about recent problems that left thousands of veteran Burners, as festival attendees are called, without tickets to the August event and might have landed tickets in the hands of scalpers.
''This has me waking up at night terrified,'' said Marian Goodell, a founding board member and spokeswoman for Black Rock City, the company that organizes Burning Man in the desert outside Gerlach, Nev. ''It is the end of Burning Man if we don't solve this.'' 
The trouble started last year, when, for the first time, Burning Man tickets sold out. This year, event organizers here replaced their first-come-first-served online ticket sales with a lottery system, which they hoped would make ticket distribution more equitable.
But organizers did not anticipate the deluge of more than 80,000 people who signed up for the lottery in January, far exceeding the number of available tickets.
Selling tickets online makes it difficult to distinguish between veteran Burners, loathed scalpers and first-timers, known as birgins in the lingo of festivalgoers.
While it is not clear exactly who bought up the bulk of the tickets, judging by the multitude of outraged Twitter messages, Facebook posts, blog entries and comments on online news stories, many longtime attendees did not and some scalpers did.
Tickets bought for between $240 and $390 are already beginning to show up for sale on sites like StubHub and Craigslist for as much as $5,000 apiece.
''This is a Burning Man cataclysm,'' said Mick Jeffries, 46, a ticketless graphic designer from Lexington, Ky. ''The people who did not get tickets are the people who make Burning Man captivating.''
For several years Mr. Jeffries has been a lead organizer of the Kentucky Fried Camp, a group of several dozen Burners who serve up a daily breakfast of fried baloney and shots of bourbon (free, of course, since Burning Man operates on a ''gift economy'').
The camp had big plans to add deep-fried Twix bars to the menu this year, but only two people who entered the lottery got tickets -- not the quorum needed to run the kitchen.
Some 58,000 people attend Burning Man, and unlike most music festivals of a similar magnitude, organizers do not pay big-name entertainers but instead rely on attendees to build infrastructure and provide entertainment for themselves.
Hundreds of ''theme camps'' spend months organizing and tens of thousands of dollars to create elaborate structures, bedecked vehicles and multimedia performances. ''Theme camps and art collectives are the basic building blocks of Black Rock City,'' said Steven T. Jones, author of ''The Tribes of Burning Man,'' who got a ticket but has taken to calling the situation ''the great Burning Man ticket fiasco'' all the same.
Event organizers say they are working to determine what went wrong and formulate what Ms. Goodell called a ''holistic, structural answer'' to the problem, which they intend to announce on Wednesday. One of the top priorities is to figure out how to make sure more theme camps get enough tickets to set up and operate, she said.
Organizers said they were looking at a multipronged solution that might include printing names on tickets to discourage scalping, requesting that the federal Bureau of Land Management increase the cap on participants allowed on the site and perhaps distributing some of the remaining 10,000 tickets scheduled to go on sale in March to established theme camps.
''We are brokenhearted by what's happened here,'' Ms. Goodell said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Organizers of Burning Man began using a lottery system after tickets sold out last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP: The festival takes places in the desert outside Gerlach, Nev. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (92%); FESTIVALS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); DANCERS (77%); MUSIC (77%); TICKET AGENCIES (76%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%); CRAIGSLIST INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



538 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Senior Goldman Executive Is Said to Be Set to Retire

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
One of the senior deal-makers at Goldman Sachs is preparing to retire, according to people briefed on the matter, joining a growing number of high-level executives who have left the Wall Street bank in recent months. 
The retirement of George N. Mattson, a partner and a head of Goldman's global industrials group, may be announced as soon as Monday, these people said. He is regarded as a top producer, with a client list that includes General Motors, General Electric, the United Parcel Service and Caterpillar.
These people were not authorized to speak publicly about internal firm matters. A Goldman spokesman declined to comment.
An unusually high number of executives have retired from one of the most-envied clubs within investment banking: Goldman's partnership. Just a small fraction of the firm's employees - now about 450 - belong to the group, having climbed the ranks after emerging as rainmakers.
But Goldman and its rivals are confronting a bleaker economic environment that has eroded earnings. The firm earned $978 million in its fourth quarter last year, a decline of nearly 56 percent from the period a year earlier.
While those results beat analyst expectations, they were bolstered in part by a round of belt-tightening that included cutting compensation and even the use of car services.
The new reality on Wall Street has also put pressure on Goldman's partnership, which is expected to shrink along with the size of the firm. More than 30 partners have left since October. Over the last three months alone, the co-heads of Goldman's prominent securities division have departed, as has the co-head of its investment management division.
Within Goldman, Mr. Mattson has cemented a reputation as a senior client-relationship banker. He has worked on a number of prominent deals over the last decade, including G.M.'s initial public offering in 2010, the breakup of Tyco International and the $16.4 billion purchase of the Goodrich Corporation by United Technologies.
Goldman Sachs was the busiest adviser on industrial deals announced last year, having worked on nearly 37 transactions worth about $75 billion, according to data from Thomson Reuters. That gave Goldman 31 percent of the market, well ahead of its nearest competitor, Credit Suisse of Switzerland.
Mr. Mattson also held several top positions within the firm's investment banking unit, sitting on both its operating and its client and business standards committees. The business standards committee was formed last year as part of a 39-step plan aimed at addressing criticism that Goldman had put its own interests ahead of the interests of its clients.
Mr. Mattson also served as a global head of recruiting for the investment banking division.
A graduate of Duke University and the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Mattson joined Goldman Sachs in 1994. He was named a managing director in 2001 and a partner the next year.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); GOODRICH CORP (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); UPS (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); TYC (NYSE) (53%); UTX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (63%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (63%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (53%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



539 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Outdoors or Inside, Sony Offers Users a Perpetual Game

BYLINE: By TANZINA VEGA

 BODY:
BEFORE the Android phone, before the iPod, before the GameBoy, there was the Walkman, the device that taught a generation to expect entertainment on the go.
Fast forward 30 years and behold the digital landscape of mobile phones that do nearly everything, like taking photos, playing music and, of course, allowing for video game applications like Angry Birds.
With sales of tablet computers and mobile phones expected to increase steadily over the next few years, the market for portable video game consoles is starting to come under pressure, analysts say. According to eMarketer, 42.5 percent of the United States population is expected to use mobile phones to play videos games by 2015, but it remains to be seen how many people will buy a device dedicated only to video games. 
Despite that, Sony is hoping to recapture some of its video game luster with the PlayStation Vita, its newest hand-held game player. The PS Vita, as the company calls the device, is a stand-alone player but can also control a PlayStation console. Part of the marketing pitch for the new device, which will make its domestic debut on Feb. 22, is that users can continue playing the same game they started at home on their PlayStation.
John Koller, the senior director for PlayStation hand-held consoles, said the PS Vita would allow users ''to feel engaged and still feel like they're playing on a console.'' The target audience for the Vita are men in their 20s who play video games eight hours a week or more and own a PlayStation3 console.
The trick will be getting those young men to put down their phones and pick up the PS Vita.
The cost of the marketing campaign at $50 million is ''the largest platform launch in terms of marketing investment we've ever had,'' Mr. Koller said.
Sony worked with Deutsch, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to create the campaign that includes television commercials, billboards, retail partnerships, digital banner ads and a significant presence in social media. The theme of the campaign, ''Never Stop Playing,'' will be featured on many of the ads as will the Twitter-influenced hashtag, #gamechanger.
Jason Elm, the executive vice president and creative director at Deutsch, described the campaign's audience as ''very socially plugged in, mobile, out and about, both physically and on the Internet.'' Using the Twitter hashtag on the ads would help aggregate all of the conversations people were having about the product in one place, Mr. Elm said.
While the hashtag conversations will be organic, the company will also buy promoted Twitter posts that will direct consumers to the device's Web site, playstation.com/psvita, where they can learn more about the product and make a purchase. Facebook users will find a tab dedicated to the Vita on the PlayStation page and how-to videos about the device.
Another part of the campaign, naturally enough, involves putting the PS Vita into people's hands. Users looking for a more tactile experience can play with the device in pop-up stores that the company is calling Vita Social Clubs in cities like San Francisco, Boston and Los Angeles.
The commercials for the campaign were shot in three days in Buenos Aires and were meant to show how the Vita ''affects you socially,'' Mr. Elm said. In one spot, the male character is using his Vita to continue playing a game during his commute that he started before leaving for work. Another spot highlights the augmented reality features of the console with a narrator explaining how ''the world is your next battleground,'' while a third spot shows a man playing games against other people he sees in the street.
''Gaming is no longer playing alone in a basement by one person with one machine; it's all networked,'' Mr. Elm said. To reach its core consumer, the company will show the commercials during television programs like ''The Simpsons,'' ''South Park'' and ''Tosh.0,'' the popular Comedy Central show, and during N.B.A and N.C.A.A. basketball games.
Online users will see banner ads across 26 Web sites like Yahoo, ESPN, CNN and YouTube. Billboards and wallscapes will be seen in cities like New York, Chicago and San Francisco and radio ads for the Vita will be broadcast on the Howard Stern show on Sirius Radio during March Madness.
Analysts said the PS Vita was impressive for its technical specifications and functionality, but questioned whether it would do well in the market. A report from the market research firm IDC said the worldwide revenue from dedicated hand-held gaming devices, including hardware and software from Nintendo and Sony (but excluding mobile phones like the iPhone), was $10.7 billion in 2010 and $18.1 billion in 2008.
''The portable hardware market is holding its own but it hasn't been faring well over the past couple of years,'' said David Riley, an analyst at the NPD group, a marketing research firm. ''Gamers are fickle,'' Mr. Riley added, ''The casual gamer is going to lean toward any platform that provides cheap or free gaming.''
The Vita, which made its debut in Japan last year, will be sold in the United States for $249 for a Wi-Fi version, and $299 for a 3G version. The average price for its games ranges from $9.99 to $49.99 -- many mobile game applications are cheaper or even free.
''It's an amazing device,'' said Michael Pachter, an analyst at Wedbush Securities, a financial services firm. Mr. Pachter said that the market for hand-held games was still active, but under pressure from a down economy and the free apps available on tablets and smartphones.
''Would you rather have a 10-hour immersive experience for 40 bucks, as opposed to 400 10-minute experiences for free?'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The PlayStation Vita caters to those who would like to keep playing a console game even when not at home. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); TABLET COMPUTERS (73%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%)

COMPANY: SONY CORP (95%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (83%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: SON (LSE) (95%); SNE (NYSE) (95%); 6758 (TSE) (95%); IPG (NYSE) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



540 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Obama Faces Task of Selling Dueling Budget Ideas

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With the election-year budget he unveils on Monday, President Obama more than ever confronts the challenge of persuading voters that he has a long-term plan to reduce the deficit, even as he highlights the stimulus spending and tax cuts that increase deficits in the short term.
On Sunday, the job of making the argument for job-creation measures now and budget austerity later fell to Jacob J. Lew, Mr. Obama's chief of staff and until recently his budget director, who made the rounds of five television talk shows. 
''There's pretty broad agreement that the time for austerity is not today. We need to go on a path where, over the next several years, we bring our deficit under control,'' Mr. Lew said on the NBC program ''Meet the Press.'' ''Right now we have a recovery that's taking root, and if we were to put in austerity measures right now, it would take the economy in the wrong way.''
''The challenge,'' Mr. Lew added, ''is how do you do two things at the same time? How do you put money forward for things like the payroll tax holiday, for things like getting a jump-start on infrastructure, for building schools, and make the decisions for long-term deficit reduction? The president has proposed a plan that would do that.''
That combination -- temporary, immediate stimulus measures, together with spending cuts and tax increases that would take effect only after 2012, when the economy presumably is stronger -- is one that many economists and business leaders endorse. But as Mr. Obama starts his fourth year in office, explaining the two-track approach continues to test him and his administration.
In his budget Mr. Obama again will commit to $4 trillion in deficit reduction over 10 years, including $1.5 trillion in tax revenue from the wealthy and from closing some corporate tax breaks, and reductions in spending for a range of programs, including the military, Medicare, farm subsidies and federal pensions. But Republicans are sure to criticize the president's proposals as heavy on gimmickry and double-counting, and reject his proposed tax increases.
For all the debate over deficits, Mr. Obama on Monday will highlight spending increases and tax cuts that he seeks, which are popular despite their impact on the federal debt.
He will start the year's debate by releasing his budget plan outside Washington at Northern Virginia Community College, part of a statewide coalition of community colleges and employers that was among the first winners in September of federal grants to ensure that students are learning skills that businesses need. In his budget, Mr. Obama proposes to make that initiative an $8 billion multiyear effort.
The initiative is one of many -- both temporary measures and programs intended to be permanent -- that serve as a statement of Mr. Obama's priorities in promoting government investment in infrastructure, manufacturing, education and job training, and innovation, even as he calls for considerable deficit reduction to counter the nation's mounting debt.
Presidents of both parties typically do much the same, going into great detail about the budget's winners and leaving the losers vague or unspoken. What makes Mr. Obama's effort stand out is the sheer size of the proposed deficit reduction as the nation emerges from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, a crisis that resulted in lower revenue for the Treasury and large doses of temporary spending and tax cuts to keep the economy from collapse.
In Congress, Democrats and Republicans continue to negotiate over a package that would extend a temporary two-percentage-point cut in workers' payroll taxes through this year, along with unemployment compensation for those out of work for more than six months and a delay in a scheduled deep reduction in Medicare reimbursements to doctors.
''I do believe this will be extended,'' Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee, said on the ABC program ''This Week.'' The two sides are split over how to offset the cost of the package, but lawmakers who worked over the weekend reported making progress.
The Obama budget request for fiscal year 2013, which begins Oct. 1, reflects the White House agreement with Congress last August to cut nearly $1 trillion over 10 years from annual discretionary spending, which covers most government programs but not the entitlement programs like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, whose costs, especially for the health programs, are driving the long-term projections of unsustainable debt.
In a summary of the budget released on Friday, the administration said ''difficult trade-offs had to be made'' to comply with the reduced levels of discretionary spending and still provide increases for the president's priorities. But it did not disclose who got cut, only what was increased or newly created.
Congress is not likely to accept much of Mr. Obama's budget, given Republicans' opposition. Its value is more as a political document as he fights for re-election, contrasting his approach to the other party's.
Mr. Obama will propose spending $476 billion over six years for transportation projects. Because federal fuel taxes will not cover the cost, he proposes to offset about half the cost with savings projected over 10 years from ending the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. Republicans and some budget groups call that a gimmick, saying much of the money would not be spent anyway.
On ''Fox News Sunday,'' Mr. Lew countered, ''I think that if we don't lower the caps that permit that spending, there will be a natural process of seeing military spending grow.'' He added, ''I guarantee you that if we don't take the action that's been proposed, there will be leakage, and that money will end up being spent.''
Mr. Obama will propose $141 billion in spending for research and development over all, increasing nondefense research by 5 percent above the current level and maintaining his commitment to double the budgets of three federal research agencies.
Among new initiatives, Mr. Obama seeks a $5 billion competitive program to encourage states, school districts and teachers' unions to coordinate in attracting and training more teachers, a new one-year tax credit for small businesses that increase their payroll, and tax incentives for manufacturers that bring jobs back from overseas or invest in depressed communities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); MEDICARE (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



541 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: China's Heir Apparent

BYLINE: By HO PIN. 
Ho Pin is the Chinese-language editor and publisher of ''The Biography of , Xi Jinping.'' This essay was translated by Wenguang Huang from the Chinese.

 BODY:
IT is a deeply ingrained belief in China that a young novice starting out in the real world must earn a degree, or at least spend some time in the West. ''Gilding,'' or ''du-jin'' as it's called in Chinese, boosts the person's credentials and chances of success. Nowhere is this belief more apparent than in politics. For a new leader, strutting on the White House lawn and shaking hands with the president of the United States validates his status as a true statesman and confirms his country's rising power.
Ten years ago, China's current president, Hu Jintao, made the rounds in Washington before taking the top spot. His meeting with President George W. Bush was widely seen in China as his official debut on the world stage. 
The tradition continues on Tuesday as Vice President Xi Jinping arrives in Washington. Mr. Xi is slated to become general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party later this year and China's president in early 2013.
The public sees Mr. Xi as a man of the people. When Mr. Xi was 9, his father, Xi Zhongxun, who had fought in the Communist revolution, was purged from the party by Mao. The father was detained and imprisoned and spent 16 years in a labor camp, plunging the family into poverty. During the Cultural Revolution, a 15-year-old Mr. Xi was banished to a poverty-stricken village in northern China where, for seven years, he labored with peasants, eating corn chaff bread and sleeping in a flea-infested bed.
His past sufferings will most likely make him an advocate of ordinary people's interests. Indeed, the public expects that Mr. Xi will follow the example of his father, who later became instrumental in initiating China's economic reforms, backed many of his progressive contemporaries and reportedly disagreed with the violent suppression of student protesters in Tiananmen Square in 1989.
Mr. Xi will take the helm amid increasing disillusionment with Mr. Hu, a cautious technocrat who lacked the talent and political will to steer the country in a new direction. Even though China has used market reforms to transform itself into an economic powerhouse, the government lives in constant fear of unrest.
Wealth and opportunities have been snatched by a few politically connected individuals. Corruption is rampant, and the gap between the rich and the poor is widening. President Hu has resisted calls to reform China's political system. Instead, he has reverted to the Mao-era policy of creating mammoth state-run enterprises and allocating billions of dollars to a security apparatus that routinely cracks down on dissent.
Economic growth has offered Mr. Hu a temporary reprieve; Mr. Xi will not be so lucky. The economy is showing signs of stalling, the real estate bubble could burst and the financial system is being undermined by unregulated and corrupt lending. Meanwhile, protests against corruption and social injustice are intensifying as the country's environmental resources are depleted without any consideration of future generations.
Inaction isn't an option for Mr. Xi. He will have to combat corruption, improve protections for peasants and migrant workers and rejuvenate private enterprise. Given that his father was once persecuted for supporting a banned book, Mr. Xi should grasp the importance of free speech, and one hopes he will work to regain the trust of intellectuals. But without free elections, a free press and independent judges, the government can't fulfill its promise to stamp out corruption and build a fair and just society.
Mr. Xi will face many constraints. Even though he will rule the world's most populous nation and faces no official political opposition, he lacks the legitimacy accorded democratically elected officials. And he can't expect to dominate China's power structure as Mao and Deng Xiaoping did. In today's China, every decision requires balancing the political interests of all factions. And the recent uprisings in the Arab world have made Chinese leaders keenly aware of their own vulnerability to political score-settling in the event of a government collapse. They will try everything to prevent it from happening in their lifetimes.
However, the trend is irreversible. As the insatiable greed of corrupt officials and unfair economic practices further exacerbate public anger and hatred, a large-scale crisis, set off by events like an economic meltdown or a protest by peasants or migrant workers, could occur.
If that happens, Mr. Xi seems more likely than former leaders to rally progressives both within and outside the party, take advantage of grass-roots movements and genuinely transform China's political landscape. A responsible, democratic China that embraced human rights and international norms would stand up to terrorists and dictators and instill trust in neighbors.
Until now, the Chinese government has successfully deflected international pressure for change largely because a group of money-grubbing Western investors, desperate politicians and opportunistic scholars have fawned over China's vast foreign reserves and market potential. One can only hope that the American government will see past the money and unequivocally support the voices of reform and push for political change from within. Despite China's tough talk, pressure from the West matters and can make a difference.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (84%); REAL ESTATE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); POOR POPULATION (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (62%); CORRUPTION (61%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (89%); XI JINPING (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



542 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Private Equity Industry Attracts S.E.C. Scrutiny

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
In recent years, the private equity industry has escaped much of the regulatory scrutiny that has been directed toward hedge funds and Wall Street banks. But that appears to be changing.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun a broad examination of the private equity industry, seeking information about the business practices of some of the country's most powerful financial firms.
The S.E.C.'s enforcement unit sent a letter late last year to several private equity funds as part of what it called an ''informal inquiry'' into the industry, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly. It is not clear which firms received the letter.
While the S.E.C. emphasized that the request should not be construed as an indication that it suspected any wrongdoing, its goal in gathering information was to investigate possible violations of securities laws, these people said. 
One focus of the inquiry is how private equity firms value their investments and report performance. Unlike the valuing of publicly traded stocks, valuing private equity investments - largely in private companies that are not listed on an exchange - can be a thorny and subjective process.
The S.E.C.'s concern, say people familiar with the government inquiry, is that some private equity funds might overstate the value of their portfolios to attract investors for future funds.
''Private equity firms work hard, with auditors and company managements, to provide accurate valuations of their largely illiquid holdings to their investors,'' said Steve Judge, the chief executive of the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, the industry's trade group.
The S.E.C. inquiry, which was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal, adds to the increased scrutiny of the private equity industry in Washington and expands the agency's interest in how financial institutions value their holdings.
While private equity billionaires like Henry R. Kravis and Stephen A. Schwarzman have long made headlines for their audacious deals, the industry has historically received minimal attention from federal lawmakers, in part because private equity clients - typically pension funds and the investment arms of foreign governments - are considered to be more sophisticated than average investors.
The inquiry also comes at a time when private equity has been thrust onto the national stage as a central issue in the presidential election. Mitt Romney, a leading contender for the Republican nomination, earned his fortune running Bain Capital, one of the world's largest private equity firms.
The industry drew heightened interest during last decade's buyout boom. Backed by billions of dollars in loans from flush banks, the firms acquired major American companies, including the radio giant Clear Channel Communications, the hospital chain H.C.A. and the automaker Chrysler.
Washington began to pay attention. The favorable tax treatment that private equity executives receive on a large portion of their compensation came under attack. The Justice Department began investigating whether the world's largest private equity firms colluded to drive down the prices of acquisitions that they teamed up on.
Under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, most private equity firms must register with the S.E.C. by the end of March. The commission already oversees many firms. The Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, for example, are publicly traded companies that provide the commission with detailed financial information.
While the largest private equity shops receive the most publicity, the industry is vast, with several thousand firms and more than $1 trillion in assets under management.
Critics of the industry argue that private equity's core investment strategy - taking on large amounts of debt to buy companies - too often results in bankruptcies and job losses.
Private equity officials counter that their acquisitions drive economic growth by making companies more competitive. They also boast of delivering superior investment returns to clients, including public pension funds.
The S.E.C inquiry appears less focused on big-picture questions like private equity's effect on jobs or the companies that it buys. Instead, the commission wants to deepen its understanding of more arcane issues like firms' fee structures and how they value investments.
Handling the inquiry is the S.E.C.'s enforcement division, which drew criticism for its ineffectiveness as a regulator in the period leading up to the financial crisis. The agency has recently taken a more aggressive public stance, vowing to root out misconduct on Wall Street.
Speaking at a private equity conference last month, Robert B. Kaplan, co-chief of the S.E.C. enforcement division's newly formed asset management unit, said he thought the private equity industry lacked sufficient oversight and deserved more scrutiny.
One area of focus is portfolio valuation. Private equity managers use varying, complex methodologies to value their holdings, which are often private companies bought using debt. Because there are no easily ascertainable market prices for private companies, subjective judgments play a significant role in their valuation.
While the industry has in recent years provided managers with a framework for valuing their private holdings, even its largest, most sophisticated players acknowledge the complexities involved.
The Carlyle Group, for instance, which has filed for an initial public offering, lists valuation as a ''risk factor'' in its registration statement with the S.E.C.
''Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our funds can involve subjective judgments,'' Carlyle said, ''and the fair value of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may be incorrect, which could result in the misstatement of fund performance.''
Private equity funds argue that they are rigorous in their valuation process. Many firms use independent financial advisory firms that specialize in portfolio valuation, like Duff & Phelps.
They also contend that interim valuations are less important to investors in private equity funds than investors in other vehicles like hedge funds. That is because private equity funds earn profits only when they sell a holding. By contrast, hedge fund managers are paid on their gains at the end of each year.
''Because private equity investments are not traded on stock exchanges, investors and company management can focus on creating value over the long term and not on the monthly or quarterly pressures of the public markets,'' said Mr. Judge, the chief of the industry trade group.
The valuation of assets has become a main focus of law enforcement authorities, not only at private equity firms but also at hedge funds and Wall Street banks.
Earlier this month, federal prosecutors charged three former Credit Suisse executives with inflating the value of their mortgage-bond holdings to secure higher bonus payouts.
The S.E.C. recently filed several actions against hedge funds as part of an initiative to combat fraudulent valuations and phony returns. The effort - called the ''aberrational performance inquiry'' - uses what the S.E.C. calls proprietary risk analytics to evaluate hedge fund performance.
In announcing the initiative, the S.E.C. emphasized that it was interested in assessing returns across Wall Street.
''We are applying analytics across the investment adviser space - beyond performance and beyond hedge funds,'' the agency said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Billionaires like Stephen A. Schwarzman, left, of the Blackstone Group, and Henry R. Kravis of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts have long attracted headlines for their audacious deals. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER FOLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); ELECTIONS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); HOSPITALS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (60%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); HENRY KRAVIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



543 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Admiral Pushing For Freer Hand With Commandos

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, MARK MAZZETTI and THOM SHANKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As the United States turns increasingly to Special Operations forces to confront developing threats scattered around the world, the nation's top Special Operations officer, a member of the Navy Seals who oversaw the raid that killed Osama bin Laden, is seeking new authority to move his forces faster and outside of normal Pentagon deployment channels.
The officer, Adm. William H. McRaven, who leads the Special Operations Command, is pushing for a larger role for his elite units who have traditionally operated in the dark corners of American foreign policy. The plan would give him more autonomy to position his forces and their war-fighting equipment where intelligence and global events indicate they are most needed.
It would also allow the Special Operations forces to expand their presence in regions where they have not operated in large numbers for the past decade, especially in Asia, Africa and Latin America. 
While President Obama and his Pentagon's leadership have increasingly made Special Operations forces their military tool of choice, similar plans in the past have foundered because of opposition from regional commanders and the State Department. The military's regional combatant commanders have feared a decrease of their authority, and some ambassadors in crisis zones have voiced concerns that commandos may carry out missions that are perceived to tread on a host country's sovereignty, like the rift in ties with Pakistan after the Bin Laden raid.
Administration, military and Congressional officials say that the Special Operations Command has embarked on a quiet lobbying campaign to push through the initiative. Pentagon and administration officials note that while the Special Operations Command is certain to see a growth in its budget and personnel when the new Defense Department spending plan is released Monday -- in contrast to many other parts of the military that are being cut -- no decisions have been made on whether to expand Admiral McRaven's authorities.
The White House and State Department declined to comment on the proposal on Sunday.
The proposals are put forward as a new model for warfare in an age of diminishing Pentagon budgets, shrinking numbers of troops and declining public appetite for large wars of occupation, according to Pentagon officials, military officers and civilian contractors briefed on the plan. They spoke on the condition of anonymity because no decisions have been made.
Under the new concepts, a significant number of Special Operations forces -- projected at 12,000 -- would remain deployed around the world. While commando teams would be on call for striking terrorist targets and rescuing hostages, just as significant would be the increased number of these personnel deployed on training and liaison assignments and to gather information to help the command better predict approaching national security risks.
Officials stressed that in almost all cases, Special Operations forces would still only be ordered on specific missions by the regional four-star commander.
''It's not really about Socom running the global war on terrorism,'' Admiral McRaven said in a brief interview last week, referring to the Special Operations Command. ''I don't think we're ready to do that. What it's about is how do I better support'' the regional combatant commanders.
For the past decade, more than 80 percent of the United States' Special Operations forces have been deployed to the Middle East. With the military's conventional forces coming home after the full withdrawal from Iraq, Admiral McRaven wants the authority to spread his commando teams into regions where they had been thinned out to provide forces for wars after the Sept. 11 attacks.
Even more, Admiral McRaven wants the authority to quickly move his units to potential hot spots without going through the standard Pentagon process governing overseas deployments. Historically, the deployment of American forces overseas began with a request from a global combatant commander that was processed through the military's Joint Staff and placed before the defense secretary for approval, in a cautious and deliberate process.
Shifting national security threats may argue for Admiral McRaven's plans. With Special Operations forces concentrated in the Middle East and Southwest Asia over the last decade, commanders in other regions are seeking more of these units in their areas.
State Department officials say they have not yet been briefed on the proposals. In the past, some ambassadors in crisis zones have opposed increased deployments of Special Operations teams, and they have demanded assurances that diplomatic chiefs of missions will be fully involved in their plans and missions.
Senior Special Operations commanders pledged that their efforts would be coordinated with the senior diplomatic representative in each country. These officers also describe how the new authorities would stress working with local security forces whenever possible. The exception would be when a local government was unable or unwilling to cooperate with an authorized American mission, or if there was no responsible government in power with whom to work.
Admiral McRaven's plans have raised concerns even within the Special Operations community. Two Pentagon consultants said they have spoken with senior Special Operations officers who worry about their troops being stretched too thin. They are also concerned that Special Operations forces -- still less than 2 percent of the entire military -- will become so much the ''go to'' force of choice that they are asked to carry out missions beyond their capacity.
''Sure, we're worried about that,'' said one senior Special Operations officer with several command tours overseas. ''But we also think we can manage that.''
The Special Operations Command now numbers just under 66,000 people -- including both military personnel and Defense Department civilians -- a doubling since 2001. Its budget has reached $10.5 billion, up from $4.2 billion in 2001 (after adjusting for inflation).
Over the past decade, Special Operations Command personnel have been deployed for combat operations, exercises, training and other liaison missions in more than 70 countries. Since the invasion of Iraq in 2003, Special Operations Command sustained overseas deployments of more than 12,000 troops a day, with four-fifths committed to the broader Middle East.
Even as the Pentagon trims its conventional force, with a refocus on the Asia-Pacific region and reductions in Europe, the Special Operations Command says it needs to permanently sustain that overseas force of 12,000 deployed around the world -- with troops that came out of Iraq being distributed across regions that had not had many over the past decade.
Under Admiral McRaven's evolving plans -- what he calls the Global SOF Alliance -- Special Operations forces would be moved around the globe at his direction, to bolster the forces available to the top Special Operations officer assigned to each theater of operation. Thickening the Special Operations deployments in these other regions would allow the United States to be ready to respond more rapidly to a broader range of threats.
Current guidelines allow the Special Operations Command to carry out missions on its own for very specific types of operations, although that has rarely been done and officials involved in the current debate say that would remain a rare event.
''He's trying to provide global agility,'' said one former military official who has been briefed on the planning. ''If your network is not elastic, it's not as agile as the enemy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adm. William H. McRaven leads the Special Operations Command. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (93%); NAVIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORISM (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (57%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



544 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: A Delicate Balance For the President

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As President Obama shifts more fully into campaign mode, he faces the increasingly difficult task of balancing his policy duties as president with his political imperatives as a candidate.
The week ahead will test his ability to manage those two roles as the White House and his campaign advisers juggle fund-raising, legislative maneuvering and continuing controversy over health care and religious freedom.
On Monday, Mr. Obama will unveil his budget for 2013, a spending plan that -- even as it is declared dead on arrival by Republicans in the House of Representatives -- will serve as a blueprint for his campaign's economic arguments over the next nine months. 
Two days later, Mr. Obama will set out for a three-day trip that will take him to swing states like Wisconsin and contribution-rich states like California. The search for campaign cash will be the first since Mr. Obama blessed the efforts of a ''super PAC'' that is backing him.
And throughout the week, Mr. Obama and his White House team will be seeking to put behind them the controversial decision to require that employees of Catholic-affiliated institutions receive free contraceptive coverage through their insurance plans. An ''accommodation'' announced on Friday appears to have satisfied his critics on the left, but not Catholic bishops or his Republican rivals.
The first six weeks of 2012 have, for good reason, seen an intense focus on the intraparty feud raging among Republicans. But now attention is squarely on Mr. Obama. Here is a look at the major components of his week:
THE BUDGET Mr. Obama's budget has already prompted a new debate over the federal deficit, which is expected to be more than $1 trillion, higher than the administration had forecast just months ago. Mr. Obama will unveil his spending plan with a speech at a community college in Virginia on Monday morning.
The beginning of the budget debate will play out against the background of a continuing fight over the payroll tax cut, which will expire again at the end of February unless Congress decides to extend it. And the budget will heighten the differences with House Republicans, who promise that their own budget will follow shortly.
Mr. Obama's new chief of staff, Jacob J. Lew, said on ''This Week'' on ABC that the president's budget would offer a stark contrast with the Republican effort.
''We need to have an economy where everyone has a fair shot, where everybody does their fair share, and where everybody plays by the same rules,'' said Mr. Lew, until recently the budget director. ''I think that's something that is what the president spoke to in Kansas a few months ago. It's what he spoke to in the State of the Union. And it's what this budget implements.''
THE MONEY CHASE The three-day swing that begins on Wednesday includes two events that are officially not tied to the campaign: a budget-related event at the Master Lock plant in Milwaukee and another economic-focused event in Seattle. But the rest of the trip is dedicated to scooping up cash.
The bulk of that money will come from Los Angeles and the San Francisco Bay Area, which have long been main sources of financial support for Mr. Obama because of the entertainment moguls of Hollywood and the tech giants of Silicon Valley.
Mr. Obama angered his Hollywood supporters recently by siding with tech companies in the legislative battle over new online piracy laws. But the White House is still eager to tap into a constituency that helped him raise millions of dollars in the 2008 campaign.
The president's recent decision to allow his top aides to help raise money for Priorities USA Action, a super PAC, does not mean that he will attend fund-raisers for the group himself. But as he mingles with very wealthy donors this week, the message is already clear that he supports the group's efforts.
CONTRACEPTION Friday's decision by the White House to make what officials called an accommodation on the contraception decision was designed to get the issue off the front pages. But religious leaders, lawmakers on Capitol Hill and Republicans on the stump are not about to let that happen.
Republican senators are preparing to vote on legislation that would undo the administration's contraception decision. ''We'll be voting on that in the Senate,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''And you can anticipate that that would happen as soon as possible.''
Republicans like Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum are continuing to hammer the president, shown below on Friday announcing the decision with Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary.
At the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday, Mr. Santorum declared that the issue is ''not about contraception. It's about economic liberty. It's about freedom of speech. It's about freedom of liberty. It's about government control of your lives, and it's got to stop.''
And the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops issued a statement that Mr. Obama's accommodation was still ''unacceptable and must be corrected.''
Mr. Lew, making the rounds of the Sunday talk shows to discuss the budget, was instead repeatedly forced to defend the administration's effort to guarantee that insurers cover birth control for women.
Mr. Lew repeated that the exemptions to the requirement would continue to be discussed but that national organizations representing Catholic hospitals and charitable services had endorsed the administration's revised proposal.
In polls, a majority of Catholics say they support the administration's policy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); RELIGION (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (63%); TAX LAW (61%); CONTRACEPTION (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



545 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; FIVETHIRTYEIGHT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Lin's Hot Streak as a Predictor of His Future

BYLINE: By NATE SILVER

 BODY:
Even an average N.B.A. player can have a great game. Within the past two seasons, players including Jordan Crawford, Hedo Turkoglu and Goran Dragic have recorded a triple-double. The Milwaukee Bucks' Brandon Jennings scored 55 points in a game in 2009, nearly quadrupling the 15 points per game he scored on average that season.
But what about four great games in a row - especially when they coincide with your first three N.B.A. starts?
The New York Knicks' Jeremy Lin has scored at least 23 points in each of his last four games, including 38 on Friday night against the Lakers. He has also recorded at least seven assists in each game, and he has been efficient, shooting at least 53 percent from the field each time. 
Just how common is something like this? I searched basketball-reference.com for other streaks that were in the same general ballpark: players who scored at least 20 points, had at least six assists and shot 50 percent over a period of four consecutive N.B.A. regular season games.
Since the 1985-86 season, 41 players have had such a streak in addition to Lin.
It is an extremely impressive list. All but seven of the players made at least one All-Star appearance in their careers, with about two-thirds of them selected to the All-Star team multiple times. The list includes nine Hall of Famers - and a number of other players who are sure to make it once they retire. The players on the list account for 17 of the last 28 M.V.P. awards.
We can sort the players into six general categories, using their Elo ratings from basketball-reference.com as a guide.
The first tier consists of 11 players that I call ''All-Time Greats.'' These are players who were either among the 50 Greatest Players in N.B.A. History, when the league announced that list in 1996, or who have won an M.V.P. award since then. It contains pretty much who you'd think - Michael Jordan, Larry Bird, Magic Johnson. It also includes Steve Nash, a player to whom some are comparing Lin.
The next tier consists of four ''Franchise Players.'' This includes players like Gary Payton, the former Seattle Supersonics point guard, who fall just short of immortality (or are too young to have achieved it yet), but who were probably good enough to lead a team to a championship.
In the third tier are the ''All-Stars'' - players who made the All-Star team about half the time during the peak of their careers, and who could win a championship if paired with a player of similar aptitude and a strong supporting cast. Two of these players, Chris Mullin and Joe Dumars, made the Hall of Fame, but most, like former Phoenix Suns point guard Kevin Johnson, fell just short of it.
Next up is the ''Above Average'' group - guys who had good overall careers and who might have made an All-Star team in their best season or two. Mark Jackson, the former Knicks point guard, is typical of this group.
Only 9 of the 41 players fall below this tier. Six of them, like the former Knick Steve Francis, fall into a group of average players.
Just three of them, meanwhile - Pooh Richardson, Jay Humphries and Lionel Simmons - were mediocre N.B.A. players even at their peak.
In other words, while it is possible that Lin will turn out to be the next Pooh Richardson, the odds are in favor of a more impressive outcome.
Basketball is much less luck-driven than a sport like baseball, especially for a point guard, who handles so many of the team's possessions. A league-average point guard might be able to muster one streak like Lin's over the course of his career. But it is more the hallmark of a player with at least borderline All-Star talent, if not more than that.
There are, however, two other factors pertinent to Jeremy Lin, one of which speaks favorably for him and the other less so.
The unfavorable factor is that absolutely nobody saw this coming. Lin was cut during the pre-season by the Golden State Warriors, and then again by the Houston Rockets, one of the more statistically savvy teams in the league. Lin had been undrafted out of college - that college was Harvard, by the way, where Lin had a G.P.A. of 3.1 and majored in economics.
While it must be acknowledged that talent evaluation is an imperfect science in sports - and that there may be some bias against an Asian-American from Harvard who does not fit the mold of a typical N.B.A. point guard - that is nevertheless a reason to expect some reversion to the mean. That doesn't mean Lin is going to be the next Lionel Simmons, but it would weigh against a prediction that he will turn into a superstar.
On the other hand, these past four games aren't just any four, picked out at random from a long career. They represent the first four times that Lin had ever played more than 24 minutes in an N.B.A. game and his first three career starts. In fact, the 89 points Lin scored in his first three starts is the most by an N.B.A. player since the league merged with the A.B.A. in 1976.
And Lin has scored his points in impressive fashion, slashing and driving to the basket and creating easy shots for himself. Were he just a streak shooter who had knocked down a bunch of 3-pointers, perhaps there would be more reason to be skeptical.
Lin has also received the endorsement of one of the players on the All-Time Greats list, Magic Johnson, who compared him to two of the others, John Stockton and Steve Nash, on ESPN's telecast last night.
So perhaps the list of 41 players above is a roughly appropriate guide to Lin's possible futures. That would imply that there was about a one-in-four chance that Lin really was going to be a superstar, and about a one-in-four chance that he was an average (or worse) player on an incredible hot streak. That would leave a 50 percent chance that he was somewhere in the middle - a clearly above-average player who would make several All-Star teams in his career.
It's also worth watching to see whether Lin can extend the streak tonight against Minnesota. Only 17 of the 41 players had streaks that lasted for longer than four games, with many of the more marginal players dropping off the list.
And only five players had such a streak that lasted for six games or longer. Four of them are Michael Jordan, Charles Barkley, Isiah Thomas and Dwyane Wade. The other was less illustrious: Lafayette ''Fat'' Lever.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The 41 players since the 1985-86 season who have had a streak similar to Jeremy Lin's four-game stretch of at least 23 points, 7 assists and 53 percent shooting include, top left to right, an alltime great (Steve Nash), a franchise player (Gary Payton), above from left, an All-Star (Kevin Johnson), an above-average player (Mark Jackson) and an average player (Steve Francis). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL CONNORS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
DOUGLAS C. PIZAC/ASSOCIATED PRESS
TOM STRATTMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
TIM DE FRISCO/GETTY IMAGES
 MARK J. TERRILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Players With 20+ Points, 6+ Assists and 50 Percent+ Shooting in Four or More Consecutive Games Since 1985-86 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); MILWAUKEE BUCKS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



546 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include retail sales for January, import prices for January and business inventories for December (Tuesday); industrial production for January (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, the Producer Price Index for January, housing starts for January and the Philadelphia Fed index (Thursday); and the Consumer Price Index for January and leading economic indicators for January (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Avon, Goodyear Tire and Rubber, MetLife and Zynga (Tuesday); CBS, Comcast, Deere and Dr Pepper Snapple (Wednesday); General Motors, Molson Coors, DirecTV and Nordstrom (Thursday); and Campbell Soup and H. J. Heinz (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES President Obama will release his budget for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, and Federal Reserve officials are expected to vote on Capital One's bid to buy ING Direct USA (Monday).
A House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing on employment trends, the Senate Budget Committee will hold a hearing on President Obama's proposed budget and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will testify before the Senate Finance Committee on Mr. Obama's proposed budget (Tuesday).
The Federal Open Market Committee will release minutes from its January meeting, the House Budget Committee will conduct a hearing on Mr. Obama's proposed budget, a House Financial Services subcommittee will hold a hearing on the budget of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and a Senate Banking subcommittee will conduct a hearing on incentive compensation at large financial institutions (Wednesday).
A House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will hold a hearing on the budget of the Federal Communications Commission, the Senate Banking Committee will conduct a hearing on the implications of the European debt crisis, and Treasury Secretary Geithner will testify before the Senate Budget Committee and the House Budget Committee on the president's proposed budget (Thursday).
IN EUROPE The European Union competition regulator will decide whether to approve Google's takeover of Motorola Mobility (Monday). The European Union statistics agency will issue data on fourth-quarter gross domestic product (Wednesday). The International Trade Commission will rule on whether Apple infringed an HTC patent (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); SALES FORCE (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); TIRES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); APPROVALS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); TRENDS (67%); EURO CRISIS (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (61%)

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (72%); GOOGLE INC (64%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); H J HEINZ CO (57%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); ING GROEP NV (56%); ING BANK FSB (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (54%)

TICKER: GT (SWX) (72%); GT (NASDAQ) (72%); GT (BRU) (72%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (64%); HNZ (NYSE) (57%); TAP (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); INGA (BIT) (56%); INGA (AMS) (56%); ING (NYSE) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (72%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (72%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (72%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (72%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (64%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (57%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (57%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (57%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



547 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2380 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Private Equity Industry Attracts S.E.C. Scrutiny | In recent years, the private equity industry has escaped much of the regulatory scrutiny that has been directed toward hedge funds and Wall Street banks. But that appears to be changing.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun a broad examination of the private equity industry, seeking information about the business practices of some of the country's most powerful financial firms.
The S.E.C.'s enforcement unit sent a letter late last year to several private equity funds as part of what it called an "informal inquiry" into the industry, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly. It is not clear which firms received the letter.
While the S.E.C. emphasized that the request should not be construed as an indication that it suspected any wrongdoing, its goal in gathering information was to investigate possible violations of securities laws, these people said. DealBook  | 
DEAL NOTES
Roger S. Aaron, Top Deal Lawyer, Dies at 69 | Mr. Aaron was one of the most notable deal makers of his generation, having counseled a long list of blue-chip clients that included General Motors, Time Warner and Pfizer. DealBook 
For Once, a Bank Run Is a Good Thing | On Wednesday night, Wall Street took part in the 35th annual Empire State Building Run-Up, a charity event that had 666 people racing up the 1,576 stairs of the tallest building in New York. DealBook 
Jimmy Choo Co-Founder Stomps on Private Equity | Tamara Mellon, who co-founded the high-end shoe company Jimmy Choo, has been criticizing the buyout industry on Twitter, decrying its "abhorrent greed," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Occupy Movement Plans its Next Moves | Groups around the country say they are preparing for marches and strikes in the spring, The New York Times reports. "Inspiring more people to get angry and involved is the top priority," Bill Dobbs, a member of the press committee of Occupy Wall Street, said. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Vodafone Weighs Bid for Britain's Cable & Wireless Worldwide | Vodafone confirmed on Monday that it was considering an all-cash takeover bid for Cable & Wireless Worldwide, an embattled British telecommunications service provider. DealBook 
Google's Motorola Mobility Deal Expected to Be Approved | Regulators in Europe and the United States are expected to approve Google's planned $12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
United Technologies Said to Weigh $3.5 Billion Sale | United Technologies, the industrial conglomerate that is seeking to finance a large takeover, is considering selling the flow and compressor businesses of its Hamilton Sundstrand unit, which together could fetch $3.5 billion, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
Prudential Said to Hire Merrill for Bid for ING Unit | Prudential Financial has hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch to advise it on a possible bid for the Asian insurance operations of ING, the Dutch financial services company, a South Korean newspaper reported, according to Reuters. REUTERS
In Japan, Investors Challenge Exchange Deal | Investors in the Osaka Securities Exchange are urging management to strike a more favorable deal with the Tokyo Stock Exchange, a move that could threaten the merger, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
DuPont Puts Car Paint Unit on the Block | The chemical maker DuPont, which is being advised by Credit Suisse, has received early interest from private equity firms for its car paint business, which could sell for more than $4 billion, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Olympus Hedges on Future Alliances | The outgoing president of Olympus said the company was not in any concrete talks over a strategic investment, adding that such decisions would be left to the new management, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Senior Goldman Executive Is Said to Be Set to Retire | George N. Mattson, a partner and a top producer for the company, is set to retire, according to people briefed on the matter, joining a growing number of high-level executives who have left the bank. DealBook 
Cheap Loans in Europe May Delay a Reckoning | Some economists warn that the cheap financing the European Central Bank is offering to the Continent's lenders could make them less inclined to clean up their balance sheets, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
S.&P. Downgrades Italian Banks | Standard & Poor's reduced its ratings on 34 Italian financial firms, including UniCredit, Intesa Sanpaolo and Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bank of America's Early Deal Maker Dies | Tom Storrs, Bank of America's chairman and chief executive from 1974 to 1983, who led the company's first out-of-state acquisitions, died on Friday at 93, Reuters reports. REUTERS
China's Plan for Local Government Loans | The Chinese government instructed banks to extend the maturities of loans to local governments, a move that some analysts say could simply delay a wave of defaults, The Financial Times reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the plan. FINANCIAL TIMES
Indian Bank Reports Profit Increase | The State Bank of India, the largest lender in the country, said net income rose 15 percent, to $664 million, for the three months ended Dec. 31, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Australian Bank to Cut 1,000 Jobs | The Australia & New Zealand Banking Group plans to make the cuts by Sept. 30, and it has frozen pay for its top executives, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Energy Is Private Equity's Latest Must-Have | As new technology has made it easier to extract oil and natural gas from the earth, private equity firms completed $24.8 billion of energy deals last year, nearly triple the volume a year earlier, according to Preqin, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Debt-Laden Companies Gain Access to Bond Markets | Companies like Energy Future Holdings, Realogy and Caesars Entertainment, which were targets of large leveraged buyouts, have recently been able to sell junk bonds, as investors have shown a greater appetite for risk, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Apollo Profit Tumbles | Apollo Global Management said fourth quarter-profit fell 95 percent, compared with a particularly result in the period a year earlier, Dow Jones Newswires reports. DOW JONES
TPG Seen Losing Out on GlobeOp Deal | Traders are betting that TPG Capital's bid for GlobeOp Financial Services will be topped, as SS&C Technologies Holdings, an American software company, said it was considering a rival offer, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Goldman Unit Said to Be in Talks to Give Up Tower | Goldman Sachs's Whitehall real estate unit, one of the owners of Chicago's John Hancock Center, is in talks with NorthStar Realty Finance, a commercial property lender that owns junior debt on the tower, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the discussions. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Ducati Deal May Be on the Horizon | The chairman of Investindustrial, the Italian private equity firm that owns the motorcycle maker Ducati, suggested that this year the firm would seek to sell the company, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Fund Titan Grapples With Prospect of Disclosure | Louis Moore Bacon, who steered his $15 billion Moore Capital Management through two down years, bristles at disclosure requirements under the Dodd-Frank law, and is thought to be considering transforming the hedge fund into a "family office," managing primarily his own capital, Fortune reports. FORTUNE
Paulson and SAC to Visit Brazil | Paulson & Company and SAC Capital Advisors are both sending executives to the Hedge Fund Brazil Forum, a March conference in Rio de Janeiro, where they may scope out potential investments in the country, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Insurers Plan Larger Commitment to Hedge Funds | A third of European insurers in a study by BlackRock and the Economist Intelligence Unit said they would increase their allocations to private equity and hedge funds after regulations take effect at the beginning of 2014, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Cevian Amasses Stake in Materials Company | Cevian, the activist European hedge fund, has built up a 13 percent stake in Cookson, a British industrial materials company, making it the largest shareholder, The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Private Share Trading Expected to Decline | Deal volume is expected to decline 24 percent this year on exchanges where shares of private companies are traded, according to the broker-dealer and research firm Nyppex, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
A $100 Billion Value for Facebook? That May Be Possible | Some investment professionals are claiming that Facebook is worth only $75 billion or even $50 billion. But the Deal Professor says that does not mean Facebook stock will not trade at a price giving the company that vaunted $100 billion valuation. DealBook 
With Facebook, the Relationship Is Personal | Underlying the talk of Facebook's potential $100 billion valuation is the uniquely personal connection Facebook users feel with the social network site, Jenna Wortham writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Indian Exchange Said to Plan I.P.O. | The Multi Commodity Exchange aims to raise up to $125 million in an initial offering this month, India's first I.P.O. of the year, The Economic Times reports, citing unidentified people with direct knowledge of the matter. ECONOMIC TIMES
Indonesian Airline Delays I.P.O. | Lion Air has postponed plans for an I.P.O. of more than $1 billion, citing difficult markets, Reuters reports. REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Silicon Valley's Privacy Problem | Path, a mobile social network, apologized for surreptitiously copying users' address book information without telling them, but the practice underscores that in Silicon Valley, privacy and security are not big deals, Nick Bilton writes in The New York Times Bits blog. NEW YORK TIMES
Treating Personal Data as Currency | A start-up called Personal is among several companies that are trying to get consumers to choose which pieces of data they offer to businesses, in exchange for something of value, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Kleiner Perkins Considers Cloud Fund | A partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm that invested in Zynga and Groupon, said the company was "intrigued" by the idea of starting a fund to invest in start-ups that provide cloud computing services, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Google Ventures Plans Expansion | The venture capital firm, which is separate from Google Inc. and which makes two investments a week on average, is moving to a larger building, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Government Loan Guarantee Program Found to Need Oversight | An audit led by Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former financial executive and senior Treasury Department official, found that the government could lose $3 billion of $24.3 billion in loan commitments granted to alternative energy projects, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
MF Global Trustee Sees $1.6 Billion Customer Shortfall | The revised figure reflects growing concern that the bankruptcy trustee cannot claw back $700 million in customer money trapped at MF Global's British arm. DealBook 
Fund's Chief Is Charged in Case Tied to Galleon | Douglas F. Whitman, the founder of Whitman Capital, surrendered to the F.B.I. on charges of illegal trading in technology stocks using tips from people in the Galleon Group fraud. DealBook 
Questions Loom on Mortgage Settlement | The deal that government officials struck with big banks will provide only a fraction of struggling homeowners with relief, and recent history suggests that policing the agreement could be a challenge, Gretchen Morgenson writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
El-Erian on the Mortgage Settlement | Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, told Louise Story on Business Day Live that "the banks are getting off pretty cheaply" in the mortgage deal. NEW YORK TIMES
Volcker to Defend His Rule | Paul A. Volcker is expected to file a comment letter arguing that the financial system will be safer with a ban on proprietary trading by banks, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation. WALL STREET JOURNAL
An Alternative to Breaking Up Big Banks | Rather than breaking up financial institutions that are deemed to pose a threat to the system, we could put shareholders on the hook for losses as insolvency approaches, the economist Tyler Cowen writes in a column in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Mets Owners Said to Have Known of Madoff Concerns | In 2003, Noreen Harrington, who was then the chief investment officer for a hedge fund owned in part by the owners of the Mets, told one of those owners, Saul Katz, that she believed Bernard L. Madoff's investment performance could be "fiction," according to a court filing, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Olympus Reports Loss | The troubled Japanese company Olympus reported a net loss of $9.7 million for its fiscal third quarter, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Barclays Asks Judge to Enforce Lehman Deal | The British bank is fighting Lehman Brothers Holdings over about $3 billion in assets, which it says it owns, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Grassley Asks Government to Examine Bankruptcy Bonuses | Senator Charles Grassley, the Iowa Republican who introduced bankruptcy legislation that passed in 2005, asked Eric H. Holder, the attorney general, to examine the practice of awarding bonuses to executives who led a company into bankruptcy, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (87%); TAKEOVERS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MERGERS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); CHARITIES (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); FOOTWEAR (63%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (62%); PFIZER INC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); CABLE & WIRELESS WORLDWIDE PLC (51%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (62%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFEB (BRU) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); MSI (NYSE) (51%); UTX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (62%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



548 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1792 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: The Bacon Milkshake

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: Do you know who invented the digital camera? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: Feeling Better
Two surveys released last week say that small-business owners are feeling better than they've felt in more than three years and most have a positive outlook for growth and hiring. The skeptical speculator says the global economy gives no hint of recession in 2012. Some bloggers see a bleak but improving economic outlook. But the chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab says it's unlikely there will be a really strong recovery. Floyd Norris says United States and global growth is well below expectations. John Hussman says we're still going into a recession and stocks could fall 25 percent. Rick Newman lists six things that could derail the economy. Some people think the United States is heading in the right direction.
The Economy: Payroll Taxes Again 
Talks stall on extending the payroll tax cut. All measures of unemployment are falling. Manufacturers are stepping up their domestic investments. Corporate profits are not what they seem and insiders are selling heavily. Shopping malls across the country are experiencing near-record vacancy rates. Office-building construction is experiencing a severe drought. Amid a plunge in petroleum use worldwide, the United States finds itself the closest it has been in almost 20 years to achieving energy self-sufficiency. Yet gas prices are at record highs. The Federal Reserve chairman appeared before the Senate Budget committee and continued to defend the Fed's efforts to control inflation and unemployment. Caroline Salas Gage reports that the numbers are proving Ben S. Bernanke's critics wrong. As defense cuts loom, the president evaluates cheaper weaponry.
Your People: Skip the Meetings
Rather than wasting his time in business meetings, Furious Pete develops an amazing physique in only five hours. A study estimates that small companies have saved $17.6 billion annually by using mobile apps. Julie Rains offers team-building activities that work. Jane Shelton calculates how much home-office space an employee needs. An unexpected side effect of remote work is denser communities. The debate continues: do employees or their employers own Twitter followers?
Managing: A Meaningful Life
Warren Rutherford offers five ways to improve your attitude and commitment. Naomi Garnice explains how to be a go-to person. A brain test helps improve memory. Five early birds share their everyday productivity strategies. Annie Mueller offers a few tips for creative efficiency, including, "Think in five- to 10-minute blocks": "It's different than having hours of unbroken time, but that kind of luxury isn't always possible." Julien Smith writes a 5,000-word epic guide to getting what you want. Umair Haque explains how to create a meaningful life with meaningful work. This guy spent a year on a bike.
Red Tape Update: O.S.H.A. Rules
The ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Small Business, Nydia M. Velzquez, says of the Small Business Administration, "In examining the current state of the S.B.A.'s loan management systems, there can be no doubt that modernization is desperately needed." Robert Levin says the government is waging a secret war against small businesses. Employers must comply with new Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules. A partnership introduces a first-of-its-kind Web site to help California businesses navigate 2,409 pages of the health care law. A new bill aims to simplify 1099-K forms for small businesses. Some small-business owners say that big businesses and millionaires are not paying their fair share of taxes. But this guy says he paid 102 percent of his taxable income in 2010. A corporate tax break for buyers of computers, engines and other equipment is proving surprisingly popular. Bankers are having a tough time, but Matt Taibbi says Wall Street should stop whining.
Start-Up: Talk to Cisco
A press page generator hopes to help start-up companies introduce themselves to the media (and Will Ferrell introduces the Hornets and Bulls). Jessica Bruder reports on what Startup America has accomplished in its first year. That next great start-up is probably coming from a coffee shop (in fact billions of dollars were created in this one). A Kauffman Foundation study says that pending legislation could help start-ups raise more than $7.5 billion over the next 10 years. If you want to sell your start-up, you may want to talk to Cisco.
Ideas: Top 10 Scams
A miraculous NASA breakthrough could save millions of lives. A revolutionary large-wheeled robot is strong enough to tow a car and dexterous enough to open its trunk using the handle. Floating cities will be a reality within a decade. A new company tries to simplify event booking. Two entrepreneurs create a textbook case study of success. The Better Business Bureau unveils its top 10 scams of 2011, including: "Some hotels are warning about a scam in which guests receive calls in the middle of the night purportedly from the desk clerk, who needs to verify your credit information. Of course, it isn't the desk clerk." A couple of companies are bringing down the price of solar. Susan Cain explains how to succeed as an introvert: "Introverts have to find the places where they are comfortable stretching themselves and pushing themselves a little bit, while giving themselves the recharge time that they need." Jack in the Box introduces bacon milkshakes.
Marketing: The Difference Between Good and Bad
Stephanie Miles suggests these seven hyper-local tools to increase business during off-peak times. Three social media video contests aimed at small businesses have scored big. Christopher Carfi explains the difference between good attention and bad attention. Is everybody following up with your customers but you? Jeff Haden offers negotiating tips, such as: "Never provide an estimate when you don't have enough information. Keep asking questions instead."
Bosses of the Week
Meet the young entrepreneurs remaking New Orleans: Brittany, Jennifer, Michael and Kimberly. "All of the bright, go-getting, 20-somethings ... are part of New Orleans's post-Katrina explosion of entrepreneurialism and development, which has made the city a hub for socially minded millennials."
Around the Country: A Purple Squirrel?
Only 13 of the top 100 metros have bounced back from recession. But restaurants are looking forward to another booming year. The Stevie Awards plans a three-day event about entrepreneurship in New York in June. Counties in the contiguous United States with a greater concentration of small, locally owned businesses have healthier populations than do those that rely on large companies with absentee owners. Kansas City is getting super-fast Internet, thanks to Google. A purple squirrel is found in Pennsylvania. A Brooklyn legal incubator is helping the New York tech scene. A growing community of New Jersey social entrepreneurs looks for ways to establish its legitimacy. Macy's Win A Million competition enters another year. A popular Seattle start-up leaves some lessons as it shuts down. Two academics from Georgia start a national tour to help small businesses grow.
Around the World: A Blueprint for Russian Businesses
As a parody video promoting the London Olympics hits YouTube, the British Cabinet Office warns of possible Internet failures during the Olympics. Finnish start-ups are flourishing. A Swedish company introduces a giant touch screen. Nestle introduces a coffee machine for small businesses in Europe. Global research and development spending is expected to increase in 2012. Private firms are assisting American businesses in dealing with foreign currency and communication issues in complex markets like China (where problems and babies are growing fast). Vladimir Putin sets out a blueprint for Russian small businesses (while at Odessa, the Black Sea emits frightening sounds). During a session of Parliament, Indian ministers were doing what
Technology: The iPhone Dwarfs Microsoft
Symantec expands its back-up options for small businesses. Amazon is cutting its storage pricing. Yahoo unveils a new app search. The iPhone alone is now bigger than Microsoft's entire business. Perhaps in response, Microsoft kills off an old friend and starts opening stores near Apple's stores. The United States mobile app industry accounts for 500,000 jobs. Here's a graphic showing how small businesses have journeyed into the cloud. So let's look at 10 must-have cloud apps for small business and 20 apps and services that were important to one company's start-up. Christopher Null compares six small-business Web hosting plans. Kurt Marko asks, which tablet fits your enterprise? Amazon considers bricks and mortar. Charging systems that send power from afar will soon be on sale.
The Week's Bests
Place to Get Advice. Ryan Waggoner says to get your advice from the second best, not the best: "Now, you want to become a great athlete and you can ask either of these guys for advice. You ask the first guy, right? Most of us would, but I wonder if that's the wise move. Yes, the first guy will have good advice. ... But he can't share with you the heart and soul of earning it. ... He can't tell you about the dark nights of incompetence and wondering if you should just give up. He can't tell you how to change. In other words, if you want to be faster or stronger, don't ask the one who has always been the fastest or the strongest; they were probably born that way. Ask the one who has improved the most."
Diet Advice. Christopher Nagy says that this year we should all eat like a caveman: "A Paleolithic diet consists primarily of whole foods, animal protein - preferably from grass-fed and wild-caught species - fruits in limited amounts, nuts and good oils (olive, fish and coconut oil). ... The advantage of the Paleo diet is that it controls and diminishes the release of insulin. High insulin levels promote aging and play a large role in many of the chronic degenerative diseases of aging, such as cancer and Alzheimer's."
Reason to Go Back to Bed. Robert Gonzalez says there are 10 reasons to go back to bed, including, "If you don't, you'll die": "Experiments in rats have shown that continuous sleep deprivation for upwards of two weeks inevitably leads to death; and outcomes are also fatal in rare cases where humans are literally unable to sleep."
This Week's Question: You probably know what digital cameras have done to Kodak, but do you know who invented the digital camera? You can find the answer here.
Marks Group

        
This Week in Small Business: Jobs!
        
This Week in Small Business: A Twitter Lesson
        
This Week in Small Business: Gross National Happiness
        
This Week in Small Business: Destroying the Internet
        
This Week in Small Business: For the Win!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INFLATION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); TAX LAW (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); DROUGHT (66%); RETAILERS (66%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (50%) economy; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



549 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Who Benefits From the Safety Net

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and ROBERT GEBELOFF


HIGHLIGHT: A new study underscores that the poor are no longer the biggest group receiving government benefits. 

 BODY:
A new analysis from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities underscores that the poor are no longer the primary beneficiaries of the government safety net.
Terms like entitlements, government benefits and safety net often conjure images of tax dollars sliding from the hands of the wealthy into the pockets of the poor. But as we reported Sunday, that image is badly outdated. Benefits now flow primarily to the middle class.
The center's study found that the poorest American households, the bottom fifth, received just 32 cents of every dollar of government benefits distributed in 2010.
The finding is broadly consistent with the data we reported Sunday that the poorest households received 36 percent of benefits in 2007, down from 54 percent in 1979, numbers that came from a study published last year by the Congressional Budget Office.

While the findings are not directly comparable because of differences in methodology, the new study suggests that the recent recession did not cause any significant increase in the share of benefits flowing to the poor, as might once have been expected.
The study found that older people received slightly more than half of government benefits, while the nonelderly with disabilities received an additional 20 percent. These benefits are not means-tested - indeed, better-paid workers get more in Social Security. 
Furthermore, the study notes that politicians have shifted benefits away from the "jobless poor," through reductions in traditional welfare, and increased benefits for working families, for example through tax credits. The government also has steadily expanded eligibility for benefit programs.
"The safety net became much more work-based," wrote Arloc Sherman and his collaborators at the center, a left-leaning research group. "In addition, the U.S. population is aging, which raises the share of benefits going to seniors and people with disabilities." 
Another finding of the study is that the distribution of benefits no longer aligns with the demography of poverty. African-Americans, who make up 22 percent of the poor, receive 14 percent of government benefits, close to their 12 percent population share.
White non-Hispanics, who make up 42 percent of the poor, receive 69 percent of government benefits - again, much closer to their 64 percent population share.

        
Good Parent, Bad Parent
        
The Dependence Economy
        
The Resentment Zone: Losing Means-Tested Benefits
        
Lean on Me: Informal Safety Nets in Hard Times
        
Supporting Bad Habits With Public Money

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); AGING TRENDS (75%); FAMILY (75%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); AGING (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%) benefits; Poverty; social safety net; Social Security (US); Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; United States Economy; Welfare (US); Center on Budget and Policy Priorities

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (93%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%) Center on Budget and Policy Priorities

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



550 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Economic Indicator? How About Picture Framing?

BYLINE: JAY GOLTZ


HIGHLIGHT: At the peak, there were 28,000 custom frame shops in America. Now there are about 8,000. In most cases the better shops survived, which doesn't necessarily mean those that do the best framing. 

 BODY:
I have just come back from the annual picture-frame trade show - yes, there is one! (in fact, there used to be three) - in Las Vegas. Like many small industries, picture framing has been in a slump. During tough economic times, people somehow manage to survive without getting things framed. Go figure.
But this year was different. I talked to many vendors at the show, and without exception, every one said it felt like the old days, meaning six or eight years ago. People came to the show for all of the old reasons; to meet with vendors, to find new products, to take classes, to compare notes with other business owners.
As far as I know, picture framing is not considered a leading indicator of how the economy is doing, but maybe it should be. When the economy took a dive in 2008, custom framing dropped with it. Every frame shop owner and vendor I knew was crying the blues. And it went on for quite some time. Last year the mood was hopeful but cautious. This year was downright exciting (until you have partied with picture framers, you haven't really partied). So what changed? 
It is not as if business has bounced back to where it was five years ago. My sense is that it is creeping back slowly, but it has a long way to go. And that is part of the reason I don't think the newfound optimism is all about the improved economy. I believe it has more to do with evolution and survival of the fittest.
The complainers and pessimists have either gone out of business or stopped going to the trade show. At the peak, there were 28,000 custom frame shops in America. Now there are about 8,000. Who is left? In most cases the better shops, which does not necessarily mean the shops that do the best framing. It means the shops that run the best businesses. That probably include doing good framing, but it also includes the shops in the right neighborhoods, with the right employees, the right selection, and the right pricing.
And then there is the evolution part, adapting to change. While the total market has shrunk, the survivors have been going after bigger market share and expanding their product lines. Some shops have started to get into digital printing because customers ask for it. And others have expanded into selling home decor items and gifts.
But there was something else different about this year's show. There were many new people who were just coming into the industry. Maybe it is because the job market is bad, or because the economy seems to be stabilizing. I'm pretty sure it's not because custom picture framing is the hot new thing. But entrepreneurship is.
More and more people see owning a small business as a viable alternative to getting a job, which is very different from when I started 34 years ago. I find it interesting that despite all of the news reports about struggling small businesses, tight credit and government regulation, entrepreneurship marches on. Does this mean that the economy has recovered? Of course not. There are still far too many people unemployed, and business, in many cases, has not rebounded to where it was.
But I will repeat what I said months ago. Judging from the people I talk to, business is getting better. Maybe not in every city, maybe not in every industry. But this is no longer about hope, it is no longer about optimism. It is about confidence. It is about real people on Main Street. It is about custom picture framing. And cars. And travel. And computers.
It would feel better if were working. But if this little trade show in this little industry is any indication, 2012 should be better.

        
This Week in Small Business: The Bacon Milkshake
        
This Week in Small Business: Jobs!
        
This Week in Small Business: A Twitter Lesson
        
This Week in Small Business: Gross National Happiness
        
This Week in Small Business: Destroying the Internet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PICTURE FRAME SHOPS (91%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); TRENDS (66%); EMPLOYMENT (64%) economy; Entrepreneurship; picture framing; Small Business; trade shows; Conventions, Fairs and Trade Shows; Economic Conditions and Trends; Thinking Entrepreneur

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012



551 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: The Future of High-Tech Health Care - and the Challenge

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: New health-care technologies, like I.B.M.'s Watson computer, which is being developed as a smart assistant for physicians, hold great promise -- but only if the appropriate economic incentives are in place. The notion that a technology like Watson, if unbiased, is going to reduce health care spending significantly seems misguided. But such technologies can make a useful difference if the right economic incentives are in place. 

 BODY:
Demos, talks and a paper-plate dinner buffet were the fare last Friday evening at the Computer Museum in Mountain View, Calif., and the subject was the high-tech future of health care. The gathering was hosted by FutureMed, a health-care program that is part of Singularity University, a networked organization dedicated to exploring how disruptive technologies can sweep across whole industries and society.
The technologies on display were impressive, often inspiring -- like the wearable-robots, or mechanical exoskeletons, made by Ekso Bionics, to enable people with spinal cord injuries to walk again; or I.B.M.'s Watson question-answering computer that is being morphed into a doctors' smart assistant.
Dr. Daniel Kraft, executive director of the FutureMed program, pointed to a series of fast-changing technologies including biotechnology, nanotechnology, robotics, artificial intelligence and the surge in new data to mine for insights, or Big Data. "Exponential technologies are all around us," Dr. Kraft said.
Dr. Martin Kohn, chief medical scientist at I.B.M. research, sketched out the future path in health care for the technology behind Watson, the computer that last year outwitted the best human players of Jeopardy!, the TV question-answering game. "You'll not be surprised to learn that the executive leaders of I.B.M. fairly quickly decided that playing Jeopardy! was not a long-term business model," Dr. Kohn told the audience of a few hundred people.
But the core transferable technology, Dr. Kohn explained, was the artificial intelligence software that made it possible for Watson to read and understand 200 million digital pages, and deliver an answer within three seconds. In health care, Dr. Kohn said, "we are overwhelmed by information. And we're only as good as what we know."
So Dr. Watson, it is. 
Watson, he added, is not going to make diagnoses, not give a physician a single answer, but make suggestions, recommendations and determine probabilities. The more information Watson is fed, Dr. Kohn said, the more it learns and understands, in its way. 
One area where the technology's learning and recommendation capabilities may be particularly useful is in determining treatment regimens for patients with more than one chronic condition. And such patients account for a large share of the nation's health care costs.
There are well-defined treatment guidelines, Dr. Kohn said, for individual conditions like heart disease, diabetes, asthma and emphysema. But the guidelines are far less helpful for patients with more than one condition. For example, a beta-blocker drug is good for heart disease, but bad for asthma, Dr. Kohn noted. What are the trade-offs and what are the probabilities?
Watson, Dr. Kohn said, can "really help us learn about these multiply-challenged patients." In general, he added, Watson can be a powerful tool in moving toward the long-sought goal in health care of making more decisions based on data and a surer grasp of the relevant scientific evidence -- so-called evidence-based medicine -- instead of experience and intuition.
The Watson technology, Dr. Kohn added, has the potential to be a "profound enabler of the transformation of health care."
As do some of the other technologies displayed at FutureMed. But whether that happens or not, I'd suggest, has at least as much to do with economics and policy as technology.
Let's take Watson as an example. It's first big test-run in health care is with Wellpoint, an insurer. I know, I know, there are no "insurers" anymore, only health management organizations. But an insurer makes money by maximizing revenue -- premiums -- and minimizing expenses -- procedures, lab tests, hospitalizations and treatment.
Watson will do what it's programmed to do. Eliminating unnecessary, and often repetitive, medical tests is a big cost-saving target -- and a good one, for patients and for health-care budgets. But the research on this subject has concluded that about half of patients get too much treatment and about half get too little.
The notion that a technology like Watson, if unbiased, is going to reduce health care spending significantly seems misguided. But such technologies can make a useful difference if the right economic incentives are in place. And that, of course, is what the drift toward "accountable care organizations" is about. That is, a system in which doctors, hospitals and insurers are paid for helping people live healthier lives.
If that happens, the nation's health care bill won't necessarily fall. People living healthier and presumably longer lives will be consuming health care services for more years. But at least the money would be spent more wisely.

        
Watson vs. Humans: Score One for Congress
        
I.B.M. Using Bits of Watson for Drug Research
        
Digital Domain: Advice for the Ill, and Points for the Doctors
        
I.B.M. Makes Its Social Computing Strategy Smarter
        
G.E.-Microsoft Venture to Create 'Windows' for Health Care

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ROBOTICS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (70%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (70%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); BIG DATA (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (65%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (62%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (60%); DIABETES (60%) Artificial Intelligence; FutureMed; healthcare; i.b.m.; Singularity; Watson; Computers and the Internet; Health Insurance and Managed Care; International Business Machines Corporation; Singularity University; International Business Machines Corporation|IBM|NYSE; Data; Internet; Policy

ORGANIZATION: International Business Machines Corporation; Singularity University

TICKER: International Business Machines Corporation; IBM; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



552 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Financial Literacy: 'Pretty Dismal'

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: A report finds that citizens of several countries share a meager understanding of basic financial concepts that underpin decisions about mortgages, saving for retirement, credit card borrowing and other economic needs. 

 BODY:
"Let's say you have $200 in a savings account. The account earns 10 percent interest per year. How much would you have in the account at the end of two years?"
I assume that most Economix readers can handle that calculation of compound interest, but when a group of 51-to-56-year-olds (a k a Early Baby Boomers) were asked that question, less than one in five could arrive at the correct answer.
 This is one of the findings of financial illiteracy in a working paper by Annamaria Lusardi, an economist at Dartmouth College. The paper examines just how well Americans and citizens of other countries understand the basic financial concepts that underpin decisions about mortgages, saving for retirement, credit card borrowing and other economic needs.
 Reviewing several surveys, Ms. Lusardi finds that while those 23 to 28 years old are generally more financially literate than other age groups, the general level of numeracy is "pretty dismal considering the complexities of the calculations involved in many financial decisions."

 Numeracy appears to decline with age, although Ms. Lusardi writes that it is not clear whether that happens because of a general decline in cognitive ability or because older people have a lower level of financial knowledge. And underscoring Suze Orman's messages, women are more likely to give wrong answers or say they don't know the answer to questions testing their financial literacy.
 Not surprisingly, people with a low level of education tend to have low numeracy skills. The strongest correlation between financial literacy and background came from a person's parents' education, particularly that of the mother.
Internationally, a survey of people over 50 in 11 European countries found that the highest levels of financial literacy were in Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and Switzerland, while older residents in Italy and Spain performed particularly poorly on such questions. In a wider survey, Germany, the Netherlands and New Zealand outperformed most other countries, including the United States, while Japanese respondents were able to answer questions at about the same rate as Americans. 
(And in case you were wondering about the question at the outset: With interest compounded annually, the account would have $242 after two years.)

        
What We're Reading: A 'Hella' Big Number
        
What We're Reading: Inequality in New York
        
What We're Reading...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (93%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (77%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (66%) financial literacy; Personal Finances

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); GERMANY (85%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



553 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: Monday Reading: Whatever Happened to First-Class Flying?

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: The decline of domestic first-class flying, taking tax software for a walk, the supply of key cancer drug may run out and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Even critics of the federal safety net increasingly depend on it. (National)
        
How about a fresh orange with your Cheetos? (National)
        
Pushing to keep exercise in the school curriculum. (National)
        
Tales of the missing and broken at U.P.S. (Business)
        
Taking tax software for a walk. (Business)
        
Form 8949 for capital gains, and other tax changes. (Business)
        
Preparing a tax return with Form 1040. (Business)
        
Age 70 1/2, a magic number in retirement. (Business)
        
How to stay a strong job candidate while out of work. (Business)
        
Whatever happened todomestic first-class flying? (Travel)
        
Flying tips for older passengers. (Travel)
        
Trying travel apps in real time. (Travel)
        
New York to Dubai for $19,000. (Travel)
        
Don't tell me on Facebook or Twitter, I don't want to know. (Sunday Styles)
        
Deconstructing the "Callista" hairdo. (Sunday Styles)
        
Mortgage terms made to order. (Real Estate)
        
Traveling light in an age of digital thievery. (National)
        
Supply of a critical cancer drug may run out soon. (National)
        
Across the country, looking for the economic recovery. (National)
        
Human howls about a pet-focused airline. (Business)
        
Preventing identity theftwithout paying monthly fees. (Business)
        
Hospitals flout charity-aidlaw. (N.Y./Region)
        
Twitteris all in good fun, until it isn't. (Business)
        
Toyotas investigated for possible fire hazard. (Wheels)
        
So many apologies, so much data mining. (Bits)
        
College increasingly out of reach for the poor. (The Choice)
        
Tables reserved for the healthiest residents. (The New Old Age)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CURRICULA (89%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); CANCER DRUGS (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); IDENTITY THEFT (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); DATA MINING (50%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (69%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



554 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Raising the Price of Reproductive Rights

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: State and local restrictions on abortion have made it harder for women, especially among the poor, to obtain abortions, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
A political and cultural battle has now become an economic siege. Having failed to roll back legal access to abortion and contraception, opponents now seek to make them as costly as possible.
It's a clever strategy, because it does not require majority political support. Small legal and bureaucratic changes can often be carried out under the political radar. The women most directly affected are those with the weakest political voice and the lowest discretionary income. 
In a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted last month, 23 percent of Americans said abortion should not be permitted. In many states, a much larger percentage seems willing to go along with efforts to make it extremely difficult to obtain. 
A sharp spike in the number of restrictive policies took place in 2011. "Demand-side" policies increase the time and effort required to obtain an abortion, with requirements such as a 24-hour waiting period, a mandatory sonogram or a scripted lecture from a physician.

Women who feel desperate enough to seek an abortion are not easily deterred. As a result, "supply-side" policies that impose onerous, politically motivated regulations on abortion providers seem to have a greater effect. Examples include new minimum-square-footage requirements (including specifications for janitorial space) that can make it impossible for small clinics to continue providing services. 
Theodore Joyce of Baruch College of the City University of New York analyzes the differential effect of both demand-side and supply-side regulations recently put into effect in Texas. Because the regulations were put in effect at the same time but directed at women at different stages of pregnancy, he is able to provide convincing statistical evidence of the greater effect of supply-side policies. 
Professor Joyce clearly explains why many abortion providers are vulnerable to economic pressure and how increases in the distance women must travel to obtain an abortion can put reproductive rights beyond their reach. Many cannot afford the combined costs of transportation, time away from work and an overnight stay.
Some new regulatory requirements have been successfully challenged in court, but they have led to the threatened shutdown of two of the three remaining abortion clinics in Kansas. Reproductive-rights activists in Virginia predict that most of the abortion clinics in their state will soon be forced to close. 
In both states, the provider best able to withstand the regulatory assault is Planned Parenthood, which helps explain why this organization has come under Congressional investigation and was - at least temporarily - threatened by the Susan G. Komen for the Cure foundation with withdrawal of support.
Planned Parenthood enjoys widespread public support - reflected in a recent spike of private donations - because it has long provided reliable and low-cost reproductive health services and cancer screenings for women, as well as providing abortion services that clients can pay for themselves. 
Yet its very success makes it an inviting target, especially in the wake of new efforts to expand economic access to contraceptives. 
President Obama's Affordable Care Act will require most health-insurance plans to cover government-approved contraceptives for women without co-payments or other charges. It will also expand overall insurance coverage.
Women of childbearing age have typically spent more on out-of-pocket medical expenditures than their male counterparts, partly because of the high costs of reproductive care. 
The most reliable methods of contraception, including sterilization (preferred by many older women), are the most expensive. Over-the-counter methods, including condoms and contraceptive foam, are far more susceptible to failure than more costly oral contraceptives or I.U.D.'s.
Close to 50 percent of births in the United States are unplanned, a far higher percentage than in many countries with universal health care. 
The new insurance mandate is likely to help reduce both unplanned pregnancies and abortions but has reinforced conservative opposition to the entire Affordable Care Act. 
In recent days, the law's requirement that religiously affiliated institutions that serve the general public, like Catholic hospitals, cover the cost of contraception for their employees was sharply criticized as an assault on religious freedom (churches and church organizations are exempted from the law). 
On Friday, President Obama responded to the criticism with a plan that would require insurers rather than the Catholic institutions to cover the cost of contraception. On Saturday the United States Conference of Catholic Bishopsrejected the plan as an insufficient response to their concerns. 
Yet a recent poll conducted by the Public Religion Research Institute shows not only that a majority of Americans believe that employers should be required to provide their employees with plans that cover contraception but also that gender differences are far greater than those between Catholics and those who are religiously unaffiliated. 
Among women, 62 percent agreed compared with 47 percent of men; among Catholics, 58 percent agreed, essentially the same as the 61 percent of those who are religiously unaffiliated. 
Women in low-income families have long been more likely than others to experience unplanned pregnancies, abortions or unplanned births. 
They, more than anyone, know that legal rights can be undermined by economic realities. 

        
The Recession in Pink and Blue
        
Unemployed Mother's Day
        
Feminists for the Italian Future
        
Cougar Capitalism
        
Homemaker Dad, Breadwinner Mom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ABORTION (97%); RELIGION (91%); WOMEN (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (89%); POLITICS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (72%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); CANCER (60%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%) abortion; Daily Economist; heatlh care; Nancy Folbre; politics; reproductive rights; Roman Catholic Church; women; women in the workforce; Birth Control and Family Planning; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



555 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: The Left's Mixed Message on Middle-Class Benefits

BYLINE: MATT BAI


HIGHLIGHT: Liberals can't rail against the government for failing to help the middle class, then turn around and say that government is doing more for the middle class than conservatives will admit. 

 BODY:
Every now and then, a great piece of reporting ignites a conversation in some quarters, and such was the case with this weekend's brilliant story by my colleagues Binyamin Appelbaum and Robert Gebeloff. Through a combination of data and on-the-ground interviews, they made the convincing case that a lot of middle-class voters who now deride government spending - the kind of people who support the Tea Party movement - don't even seem to realize how much they rely on government in the form of subsidies like the mortgage interest deductions, the earned-income tax credit and Medicare. 
A bunch of my liberal friends applauded and sent around this piece, which seemed to validate their sense that the conservative argument about government dependency is specious - that, in fact, the poor are getting a smaller share of government assistance than they used to, while middle-class voters who resent government are gobbling up more of it. On his blog Matters of Principle, the always prescient Gary Hart wrote that the story reminded him of a slogan he had used many years ago as a leading Democratic politician: "If you want the government off your back, get your hands out of its pockets."
But if The Times's story laid bare some deeply flawed logic in the Tea Party argument, it also exposed a troubling contradiction on the other side of the spectrum, among what you might call the populist left. And this is something liberals should take a moment to consider, as well.
The modern populists in the Democratic Party have long argued that government has abandoned what their most ardent spokeswoman, Elizabeth Warren, has called the "vanishing middle class." They insist that a government owned by corporations is now skewed toward subsidizing the rich, while the middle class, a squishy term that in this case generally denotes families making something like $50,000 or less, increasingly fends for itself.
"Why isn't government working for them?" the venerable commentator Bill Moyers asked in a persuasive, blazingly populist speech at Boston University last year. "Because it's been bought off. It's as simple as that." Echoing a prevalent populist theme, he added, "Welcome to the plutocracy."
This is, essentially, the mirror image of the Tea Party case. According to both ideological briefs, the middle class is being - how shall we put this gently - unjustly served. But in the Tea Party gospel, it's the poor who are absconding with a disproportionate share of the tax dollar, while in the populist view, it's the wealthy.
If they're going to be intellectually consistent about this, though, then it seems as though liberals have a choice to make. You can't, on one hand, rail against the government for failing to lift a finger for the struggling middle class, and then turn around, after reading The Times's home page, and say that government is doing way more for the middle class than conservatives will admit. It just can't be that government is being generous with the guy earning $40,000 when that guy is a Tea Party sympathizer, but somehow it's behaving with negligent indifference when that same $40,000 earner is a union member.
Which is it?
My own sense is that Binyamin and Robert presented a refreshingly accurate picture of how the mysteries of the federal budget translate into policy on the ground. As a nation, we have a long way to go to create the kind of economic opportunity that defined the country in previous generations. But we actually do invest a huge amount of our federal resources in sustaining what most people would call the middle class, and that proportion will only grow as entitlement programs consume an ever larger share of the budget.
Conservatives argue that if government would really get out of their lives, if it would only stop taxing and regulating so much, then they wouldn't actually need all these tax breaks and entitlements. Economists can debate that dubious point. The fact is that if you're willing to avail yourself of tax credits and deductions and entitlement checks, then you can't very well blame everyone else for contributing to the federal debt.
Democrats make sense when they point out this inconsistency. But if they're going to make that case effectively, they should probably re-examine their own rhetoric about a government that's callously abandoned the middle class. There's yawing inequality in the country, to be sure, and as a nation, we've done embarrassingly little to counter the corrosive effects of globalization and automation on a vast segment of workers.
But neither advocates for the poor nor lobbyists for the rich have thus far managed to cut off the middle class from its sizable share of government intervention, and to suggest otherwise is misleading - and only serves to deepen the public's cynicism about government. This is what Sunday's piece makes clear.

        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
10 Questions for Gene Sperling
        
Live-Blogging Obama's News Conference
        
Geithner to Assail G.O.P. on Fiscal Policy
        
The Candidates Debate Tax Cuts and Welfare

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); POLITICS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MEDICARE (71%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%) benefits; economy; middle class; taxes; Political Times; The Caucus

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



556 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Red Moochers

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Yes, conservative states depend a lot on the government. 

 BODY:
Aaron Carroll of The Incidental Economist and I have been emailing back and forth about the extent to which conservative states tend to be much more dependent on government support than liberal states, and Aaron has produced a nice chart. He takes the top ten most conservative and liberal states as ranked by Gallup, plots the conservative minus liberal score on the X-axis, and the ratio of transfers to personal income on the Y-axis:
Those very conservative states with low reliance on transfers, by the way, are Nebraska, Wyoming, and Utah; they really are pretty self-reliant, but they also have very few people, so the overall conservative performance is dominated by bigger states that are simultaneously very conservative and very much dependent on the government safety net.
And yes, I'm aware of Andrew Gelman's work (pdf) showing that the big difference between red and blue states is how the relatively affluent vote. More on all that when I have time, which is to say, not today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



557 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Senior Goldman Executive Is Said to Be Set to Retire

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: George N. Mattson, a partner and a top producer for the company is set to retire, according to people briefed on the matter, joining a growing number of high-level executives who have left the bank. 

 BODY:
One of the senior deal-makers at Goldman Sachs is preparing to retire, according to people briefed on the matter, joining a growing number of high-level executives who have left the Wall Street bank in recent months.
The retirement of George N. Mattson, a partner and a head of Goldman's global industrials group, may be announced as soon as Monday, these people said. He is regarded as a top producer, with a client list that includes General Motors, General Electric, the United Parcel Service and Caterpillar.
These people were not authorized to speak publicly about internal firm matters. A Goldman spokesman declined to comment.
An unusually high number of executives have retired from one of the most-envied clubs within investment banking: Goldman's partnership. Just a small fraction of the firm's employees - now about 450 - belong to the group, having climbed the ranks after emerging as rainmakers.
But Goldman and its rivals are confronting a bleaker economic environment that has eroded earnings. The firm earned $978 million in its fourth quarter last year, a decline of nearly 56 percent from the period a year earlier.
While those results beat analyst expectations, they were bolstered in part by a round of belt-tightening that included cutting compensation and even the use of car services.
The new reality on Wall Street has also put pressure on Goldman's partnership, which is expected to shrink along with the size of the firm. More than 30 partners have left since October. Over the last three months alone, the co-heads of Goldman's prominent securities division have departed, as has the co-head of its investment management division. 
Within Goldman, Mr. Mattson has cemented a reputation as a senior client-relationship banker. He has worked on a number of prominent deals over the last decade, including G.M.'s initial public offering in 2010, the breakup of Tyco International and the $16.4 billion purchase of the Goodrich Corporation by United Technologies.
Goldman Sachs was the busiest adviser on industrial deals announced last year, having worked on nearly 37 transactions worth about $75 billion, according to data from Thomson Reuters. That gave Goldman 31 percent of the market, well ahead of its nearest competitor, Credit Suisse of Switzerland.
Mr. Mattson also held several top positions within the firm's investment banking unit, sitting on both its operating and its client and business standards committees. The business standards committee was formed last year as part of a 39-step plan aimed at addressing criticism that Goldman had put its own interests ahead of the interests of its clients.
Mr. Mattson also served as a global head of recruiting for the investment banking division.
A graduate of Duke University and the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Mattson joined Goldman Sachs in 1994. He was named a managing director in 2001 and a partner the next year.

        
For Once, a Bank Run Is a Good Thing
        
Judge to Weigh Halting El Paso Sale to Kinder Morgan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%) Goldman Sachs; Banking and Financial Institutions; Executive Compensation; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Mattson, George N.; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Revolving Door

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); GOODRICH CORP (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); UPS (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); TYC (NYSE) (53%); UTX (NYSE) (52%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (63%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (63%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (53%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



558 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Outsourcing's Surprise By-product: More Luxury Hotels in India

BYLINE: SHIVANI VORA


HIGHLIGHT: High-end business travelers fuel the latest hotel boom. 

 BODY:
Until now, home-grown brands like Taj, Oberoi and Leela have dominated India's luxury hotel market, but that's about to change.
High-end international hoteliers including Four Seasons Hotels & Resorts, Shangri-La Hotels & Resorts, Fairmont Hotels & Resorts, Park Hyatt Hotels, J.W. Marriott and Relais & Chateaux plan to significantly expand their presence in India in the next several years.
An increase of high-end travelers to the country is one incentive, but the main reason is India's rising global importance to the business community, hotel executives and travel analysts say.
"Like China, India is shaping up to be one of the main growth engines in the world, and as India's economy continues to grow, business travel into and within India will expand," said Christopher Wong, regional vice president of development for Four Seasons in Asia.
Recent figures support that prediction: According to the government's Ministry of Tourism, there were around 270,000 business travelers to India in 2007. That number jumped to more than a million in 2010.
Forecasts from the World Travel and Tourism Council predict overall business travel spending in India will rise by 8.8 percent a year between 2011 and 2021 - growing from $26 billion to $72 billion.
Part of the growth comes from American companies adding outsourcing and back office operations in Hyderabad, Bangalore, and Mumbai, according to Adam Weissenberg, vice chairman of Deloitte and leader of the company's travel sector. This is resulting in a boon for high-end hotel brands seeking to build properties in India, he said because outsourcing often involves high-end business travelers going to India from the West who expect luxury accommodations.
Thus, a mushrooming number of high-end hotel rooms: The Toronto-based Four Seasons is opening a 230-room property in Bangalore in 2014 and a 260-room one in New Delhi in 2015. Both hotels will have high-end retail stores as well as private residences, which will cost between $800,000 and $3.2 million to purchase. The Bangalore location will be secluded within elaborate gardens.
Shangri-la Hotels and Resorts, which is based in Hong Kong, is set to open its second India property in Mumbai by the middle of this year and has two developments in Bangalore set to open between 2013 and 2014. The 410-room Mumbai property will have views of the Mahalaxmi Racecourse and the Arabian Sea and a private helipad on the roof top. Park Hyatt Hotels out of Chicago, which already has a location in Goa, has a property slated to open in Hyderabad and another one in Chennai this year. And, JW Marriott, which currently has locations in Mumbai and Chandigarh is opening in Bangalore, Chennai, Gurgaon and the New Delhi airport this year and next year.
Fairmont Hotels and Resorts from Toronto, Canada, will enter India for the first time. The brand is opening a 199-room property in March in Jaipur that will include a "hotel within a hotel" called "Fairmont Gold" will offer complimentary amenities like hot breakfast, a lounge with computers and tablets, happy hour cocktails and an elaborate spread of evening hors d'oeuvres like tandoori prawns and sushi. The hotel will also have 45,000 square feet of conference space. Room rates for the hotel reflect the luxury: prices start close to $400 a night.
While foreign hotel names may become more widespread in India in coming years, these brands have made limited financial investment to do so, according to their spokespeople. These foreign hotels act primarily as management companies for most of their properties globally, and each location is individually owned. The chains partner with the owners to hire and train staff set down standards for service and luxury.
The Relais and Chateaux boutique property group, which has invested $14 million to partner with local hoteliers to build new properties in India is the exception. The Paris-based hotel company, which lends its name to upmarket small, historic properties that are independently owned (it currently has 518), says it is planning a big push into India.
"The boutique hotel side in India hasn't really existed, and we see an enormous opportunity for development," said chief executive Jaume Tapies.
Mr. Tapies said India's personal appeal pushed him to move into the country four years ago. The company identified seven hotels to add to its portfolio, and then staff from Paris trained local employees in decor, amenities and service.
Guests at the Neeleshwar Hermitage in Kerala, for example, stay in one of 18 large cottages stocked with iPods and decorated with handmade furniture and ancient and contemporary local original art. The property overlooks more than 20 miles of the Arabian Sea, and a night's stay costs upwards of $300. At Sher Bagh, a camp on the edge of the Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan with 12 tents, guests pay around $600.
The $14 million in new capital will be invested in 20 upcoming properties.
"India is a beautiful country with such a huge potential for tourism to places that aren't commonly frequented but where our properties are," said Mr. Tapies. "We as a brand have a lot of work to let travellers know about these places, but it's work we are looking forward to."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (91%); RESORTS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (65%); RETAILERS (50%) Hotels and Motels; Four Seasons; Chennai (India)

COMPANY: FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (95%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (91%); SHANGRI-LA ASIA LTD (58%); FAIRMONT HOTELS & RESORTS INC (58%); FAIRMONT RAFFLES HOTELS INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); DELOITTE LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Four Seasons

TICKER: H (NYSE) (91%); S07 (SGX) (58%); 0069 (HKSE) (58%); MAR (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (95%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (95%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (91%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (93%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (94%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (68%); CHANDIGARH, INDIA (58%); GOA, INDIA (58%); INDIAN OCEAN (58%) INDIA (97%); ASIA (90%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%) Chennai (India)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



559 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: The Housing Bust, in One Chart

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The price per square foot for homes in 27 areas across the country. in 2006 versus 2011. 

 BODY:
3:35 p.m. | Updated 
I just came across this chart from the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, which wonderfully captures the pain of the housing bust. It shows price per square foot for homes in 27 areas across the country in 2006 versus 2011:
Of all the housing markets shown, only Pittsburgh, Little Rock and Oklahoma City (indicated on the Fed chart as Oklahoma) had a higher cost per square foot in 2011 than in 2006. In Raleigh, N.C., prices were about flat.
A previous version of the chart from the Cleveland Fed had mislabeled the units on the vertical axis. The prices should be in dollars, not thousands of dollars. 

        
Where Housing Prices Are on the Rise
        
When Times Get Tough, the Elderly Work
        
Recovering From a Balance-Sheet Recession
        
The Misunderstood Mortgage Interest Deduction
        
The Census Surprise in New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (88%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (88%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%) housing; housing bubble; housing prices; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (70%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (54%) OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



560 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: At Volcker Rule Deadline, a Strong Pushback From Wall St.

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: Regulators in charge of writing the Volcker Rule, which would ban banks from trading with their own money, were inundated with complaints and suggestions from the financial industry. 

 BODY:
Wall Street made its broadest assault yet against new regulation on Monday, taking aim at a rule that has come to define the battle over how to police banks in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
Regulators in charge of writing the Volcker Rule, which would ban banks from trading with their own money, were inundated with complaints and suggestions on Monday, the deadline to comment on a draft proposal. More than 200 letters were expected to be filed by the midnight deadline on the rule, which regulators outlined in October.
Commenters included the rule's namesake, Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, who submitted a strongly worded defense of the rule's intent in a letter on Monday. Others, like consumer advocates and lawmakers, criticized the draft rule for not being tough enough.
 Senators Carl Levin of Michigan and Jeff Merkley of Oregon, both Democrats, led the effort to insert the Volcker Rule in the Dodd-Frank act, the sweeping regulatory overhaul passed in response to the financial crisis. In a comment letter on Monday, the senators said the proposed rule was "too tepid." 
But the loudest response came from critics like Wall Street trade groups and banks, who want to soften the rule. The rule, the critics said, is a threat to the health of the financial industry and the broader economy. 
"This will make the overall economy less stable and less conducive to growth," David Hirschmann, head of the Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness at the Chamber of Commerce, said in a letter. 
The pushback against the Volcker Rule is the latest effort under way on Wall Street to mute the impact of Dodd-Frank. But the campaign against the Volcker Rule is more pronounced than banks' earlier attempts to temper new regulations for lending and derivatives.
 Wall Street firms, lawyers and trade groups churned out many Volcker Rule appeals. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, or Sifma, hired the law firm Davis Polk to write multiple pitches to regulators. A hodgepodge of Wall Street trade groups led by Sifma alone filed five comment letters on Monday, including one document that spanned 173 pages. A regulatory comment letter normally runs 10 to 20 pages. During the writing period, most big banks formed internal Volcker Rule "task forces," often led by risk officers and lawyers, to coordinate the effort across trading desks and divisions, people briefed on the efforts said.
 The letter writing went right down to the deadline. Over the weekend, a dozen or so lawyers huddled on the 17 floor of Davis Polk's Midtown Manhattan headquarters, making final changes to more than 10 letters written on behalf of banks and Sifma.
 "I've never seen a rule-making response like this before," said Derek M. Bush, a partner at the law firm Cleary Gottlieb who helped write comment letters for banks and financial industry groups.
 Wall Street's biggest banks even submitted their own comment letters, taking an unusually aggressive stance that underscored the importance of the issue. Ordinarily, banks prefer to have trade groups and lobbyists do the talking for them.
 But with profits - and the future model of the industry - at stake, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup each submitted a comment letter, people briefed on the matter said. The letters were not yet public, but they were expected to be filed before the midnight deadline.
 "Firms usually feel that it's best to work only with the trade group letter," said Margaret E. Tahyar, a partner at Davis Polk who worked on several Volcker Rule comment letters. "But the Volcker Rule is such a major shift, that many, many firms felt they needed to also write letters in their own name."
Banks have held meetings with regulators to spell out their case. Goldman officials have met six times with the Securities and Exchange Commission over the last three months.
The insurance industry also injected itself into the debate, arguing that regulators need not apply the Volcker Rule to their business, according to people briefed on the matter.
The scope of the Wall Street pushback reflects the complexity of the rule. The draft rule that regulators unveiled last October spans about 300 pages and poses some 1,300 questions for the public to address.
Now, the comment deadline ushers in a critical phase. Equipped with arguments from every side, regulators will turn their focus to completing details of the rule.
Still, it could take months for the five regulators - the Federal Reserve, the S.E.C., the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency - to sift through the hundreds of comment letters. Financial industry lawyers have already forecast that regulators will miss the July deadline to put the rule into effect. 
Wall Street, sensing opportunity in a delay, urged regulators to take their time. Some letters suggested that the regulators "repropose" the rule, or scrap the earlier proposal altogether and start from scratch.
Supporters of the Volcker Rule say that is a ploy to delay it until after the 2012 election, which may end the Democratic control of the Senate and the White House.
"It's part of their ongoing strategy - if you can't kill the rule, you may as well delay it as long as possible," said Dennis Kelleher, president of Better Markets, a nonprofit group that advocates stricter financial regulation. 
The Volcker Rule aims to ban banks from placing bets with their own money, a practice known as proprietary trading. The rule is based on the belief that banks that enjoy government backing - like deposit insurance - should not be able to trade in this way.
Much of the debate over the Volcker Rule will center on defining what amounts to proprietary trading. The line can be blurred between proprietary trading and legitimate market-making, a practice in which banks hold securities with the intent of selling them to a customer. Regulators have acknowledged that deciphering that gray area is difficult.
The chief critics of the Volcker Rule have seized on the imprecision, saying that securities markets rely on banks holding large inventories of bonds so that investors can buy and sell them easily. The rule's attempts to distinguish between trading and market-making "would have significant deleterious real-world effects on financial markets and on the investors and customers that rely on such markets for liquidity," Sifma wrote in its comment letter.
But holding large amounts of securities has hurt banks. During the financial crisis, banks suffered huge losses on assets that were originally intended for clients, like the mortgage securities that meant big losses for Citigroup and Merrill Lynch. And banks' inventories of financial assets ballooned in the years leading up to the financial crisis, leaving them particularly vulnerable to losses when customer demand for the assets dried up.
 The rule's supporters argue that banks are defining market making so broadly that it could include some forms of risky proprietary trading. "Holding substantial securities in a trading book for an extended period obviously assumes the character of a proprietary position, particularly if not specifically hedged," Mr. Volcker wrote in his comment letter.
Or, as Mr. Kelleher put it, "Calling something market making doesn't make it so."

        
Details Emerge on Draft of Volcker Rule
        
Senate Approves Sweeping Financial Regulations

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (87%); LEGAL SERVICES (85%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); FUTURES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%) Better Markets; Carl Levin; Citigroup; Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Davis Polk & Wardwell; Dodd-Frank Act; F.D.I.C.; Federal Reserve; Goldman Sachs; Jeff Merkley; Morgan Stanley; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Paul A. Volcker; proprietary trading; Securities and Exchange Commission; Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association; Sifma; United States Chamber of Commerce; Volcker Rule; Volcker, Paul A; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Citigroup Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (82%); CLEARY GOTTLIEB STEEN & HAMILTON LLP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (59%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Citigroup Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Morgan Stanley

TICKER: Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: JEFF MERKLEY (68%) Volcker, Paul A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



561 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: Constructing Arguments: 'Room for Debate' and the Common Core Standards

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: Another in a series looking at what a shift to Common Core State Standards will mean, in this post we suggest ways to use a Times Opinion blog to help students hone skills in a fundamental area of emphasis in the new writing standards: argument. 

 BODY:
Like teachers all over the country, we've been thinking about what a shift to the Common Core State Standards will mean, and we've done a few posts already on how teaching with The Times in general can be a useful way to respond to the new focus on reading "informational text."
Today, though, we're honing in on one of the fundamental points of emphasis in the new E.L.A. writing standards: argument. Here's how the overview in the Standards document summarizes it:
The ability to write logical arguments based on substantive claims, sound reasoning and relevant evidence is a cornerstone of the writing standards, with opinion writing - a basic form of argument - extending down into the earliest grades.
Now, of course the Times Opinion section as a whole can provide daily models of "logical arguments based on substantive claims," whether through the Editorial page, Op-Ed columnists, Letters to the Editor or even the collection of Opinion videos. But in this post, we want to introduce Room for Debate, a Times blog that might be especially helpful for students across a range of abilities. 
Each Room for Debate post takes an issue or event in the news and rounds up opinions about it from four to six knowledgeable outside contributors. Because each contributor posts only a brief, four- or five-paragraph response, and because the design of the blog makes it easy to quickly grasp how the viewpoints differ, it is an especially accessible format. The posts, on everything from whether the United States has a plan for Iraq to whether store-bought items are O.K. to sell at bake sales, are also easy to scroll through. 
Below, we've listed some ideas for using this blog and other Times features to help students hone their argument skills. Let us know how else you're taking on the Standards in general - and this writing standard in particular - in your classroom.
 Analyze a Room for Debate Post on a Topic That Interests You 
To look closely at how the arguments in a Room for Debate post are built, choose a topic that you care about and take notes as you read. (Our "Debatable Issues" graphic organizer might help.) 
For instance, if you're considering an internship, you might want to read what five experts have to say on the question, "Do Unpaid Internships Exploit College Students?" Are internships "modern-day coal mines" or a "win-win situation"? With whom do you most agree? Who makes the best argument? How is that argument structured? What evidence is presented? What original points does each guest writer make? What points are made by several of the writers? 
When you're done, you might even go so far as to decide how well these various adult writers do on the "college and career-ready" scale by judging their arguments against the Common Core Writing Standards for making logical arguments. (How well did each "write arguments to support claims in an analysis of substantive topics or texts, using valid reasoning and relevant and sufficient evidence," for instance?)
 Create a Student or Community Version of Room for Debate 
Is there an interesting controversy in your school or community right now? A school policy question that needs an answer? Create a version of Room for Debate for your school or local newspaper or Web site in which you invite four to six stakeholders with different points of view to summarize their thoughts in four to five paragraphs each. 
The idea may remind you of the popular "Vox Pop" or "Man on the Street" interviews that many school and community newspapers (and even satirical papers like The Onion) publish, but follow Room for Debate's style to take it further. You might give a short summary of each guest writer's biography above their comments, and create a catchy title for each guest's post that sums up his or her thinking. In a post about President Obama's re-election chance with college students, for example, one writer's argument was summed up as, "Obama, Yes. Washington, No.", while another's was given the headline, "Were We Wrong About Obama?"
 Invent a Fantasy Edition of Room for Debate 
What would a Room for Debate with the Founding Fathers on the question of separation of church and state read like? How about a Scientific Revolution edition in which Galileo Galilei, his astronomer contemporaries and Pope Urban VIII debate heliocentrism? Or, perhaps, a literary version in which the characters in a novel you're reading as a class debate an important issue or question raised in that work? The Room for Debate formula is simple to adapt to suit any curriculum, and students alone, in pairs or in groups can be responsible for writing four- to five-paragraph summaries of the points of view of different people. (And, of course, it's your Room for Debate, so mix era and figures if you like. You could include Nicolaus Copernicus in your heliocentrism debate, for example, even if he's from an earlier century.)
 Room for Debate and Essential Questions: 
Some questions posed on Room for Debate already read like the kinds of "essential questions" that can guide whole semesters of study. An American history or civics classroom could use questions like Is the U.S. Still a 'Land of Opportunity'? or Is Americans' Religious Freedom Under Threat? or Should Voting Be Mandatory? as lenses on history or current events.
One idea: Before and after a unit of study, teachers might pose an essential question of their own and have students answer it, each crafting a four- or five-paragraph response like the guests in Room for Debate. How do their answers change after studying the question for several weeks or months? Why?
 Transform an Issue in the News Into a Debate 
Any day's Times can suggest scores of great questions that you can use for writing, oral debates, "fishbowl discussions" or just informal journal writing that can help students practice making logical arguments. 
For instance, just a few of the meaty debatable issues reported on in The Times last week include access to birth control for women who work at institutions affiliated with the Catholic church; Charles Murray's controversial new book about the white working class; and how the U.S. and Israel are responding to the threat of Iran.
Classes that don't have the time to to take on complex geopolitical or theological arguments might scan The Times for lighter issues to debate, whether people are giving Too Much Information in today's Facebook world, or whether we should all learn to eat more slowly. Page through a day's paper and see how many debatable issues you can find. 
 Practice Your Argument Skills With Our Student Opinion Feature 
Every day, we pose a question for students to which anyone 13 and older is invited to write in and respond - and, since it's the job of both of our blogs to comb the news weekly for important themes and topics, we often end up posing questions that mirror something on Room for Debate. 
For instance, Room for Debate asks six experts this week about the advantages and disadvantages of living alone, while we asked students last week, in response to some of the same articles, "Do You Like Being Alone?" Similarly, we've both recently asked about whether home-schoolers should be allowed to play on public school teams. Read the experts on Room for Debate, then come give your newly informed answer on our blog. 
We leave almost all our Student Opinion questions open indefinitely, so come anytime and scroll through what we've asked, read what others have said and add your own thoughts (first names only, please!). We moderate all comments ourselves, so it's also a safe place to post. 
 Have Fun With Questions 
Room for Debate isn't all serious questions about our role in Iraq or how to fix the economy. Occasionally, the editors ask people why they collect stuff, or how science fiction has foreshadowed actual discoveries and inventions, or where in Europe Ernest Hemingway would go if he were looking for the dynamic center of the continent now. 
What whimsical question would you like to ask five or six experts if you were a Room for Debate editor? Whom would you invite to answer them? If you have some good ideas, the blog invites you to write in and suggest them. 
 Room for Debate on Issues That Concern Young People: 
Last fall, Room for Debate asked 15 teenagers How the Future Looks From High School. Though the blog doesn't often pose questions directly to young people, there are many posts that concern those younger than 25. For instance, here are some recent questions:
Should Parents Control What Kids Learn at School?
Why Does the SAT Endure?
Single-Sex Schools: Separate but Equal?
Are Research Papers a Waste of Time?
Should Teenagers Get High Instead of Drunk?
Are Teachers Overpaid?
What questions do you and your friends, or classmates, debate that would make a great Room for Debate post, or Student Opinion question? Let us know.
 Previous Blog Posts in This Series: 
The Times and the Common Core Standards: Reading Strategies for 'Informational Text'
Compare-Contrast, Cause-Effect, Problem-Solution: Common 'Text Types' in The Times
How are you, your school, your district or your state responding to the Common Core State Standards? Let us know, and tell us how The Learning Network might be able to help.

        
Introducing an Experiment: Weekly Common Core Practice Prompts
        
Drama Strategies to Use With Any Day's Times (Part 1)
        
Engaging Nonfiction: The Times, the Common Core and a Question for You
        
Our Third Annual Summer Reading Contest
        
Compare-Contrast, Cause-Effect, Problem-Solution: Common 'Text Types' in The Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WRITERS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (87%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); EVIDENCE (69%); COAL MINING (50%) argument; Common Core Standards; Common Core State Standards; debate; the NYT and the CCSS; Academic Skills; Common Core; Learning Strategies; Lesson Plans; Literacy Skills; Notetaking; Organization; Presentations and Public Speaking; Research Skills; Thinking Skills

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (53%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012



562 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Expanding a Safety Net Program

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's proposed budget would continue the expansion of government benefits for middle-class families by extending the earned income tax credit. 

 BODY:
The federal budget proposed Monday by the Obama administration would continue the trend that we wrote about Sunday: the expansion of government benefits for middle-class families. One program that the president wants to expand is the earned income tax credit, which played a prominent role in our article.
The earned income credit is intended to encourage people with low-paying jobs to remain in the work force. Many of those workers do not pay income taxes, but they still pay taxes for Medicare and Social Security. The credit offsets those costs, allowing workers to keep more of their paychecks.
It typifies the shift in government benefits from the "jobless poor" to working families, as the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities described the trend in a recent analysis that we blogged about this morning.
From our Sunday article: "When the earned-income credit was introduced in 1975, eligibility was limited to households making the current equivalent of up to $26,997. In 2010, it was available to families making up to $49,317. The maximum payout, meanwhile, quadrupled on an inflation-adjusted basis."

What we did not note is that the current situation is temporary. The government expanded the maximum payment that families with three or more children could receive as part of the 2009 stimulus, and has since extended the measure through the end of 2012. Last year the provision lifted the maximum payout, recalculated annually, to $5,751 from $5,112.
President Obama's proposed budget would make that new maximum permanent. The White House estimates that the change would cost $14 billion over the next decade.
A second change, allowing working people with children to claim the tax credit even if they file an individual return, would cost $5.4 billion over the next decade.
Some readers have objected to the classification of the earned income credit as a benefits program, saying it should be treated like other provisions in the tax code that reduce the amount a person must pay - charitable contributions, for example, or interest payments on a mortgage loan.
But the earned income credit is different because it is refundable: in other words, if the credit exceeds the amount a person owes in taxes, the government doesn't simply waive its obligation, it actually pays out the overage.
In the 2011 fiscal year, for example, the White House estimates the earned income credit reduced taxes owed by $1.2 billion - and the government then distributed almost $56 billion in payments to qualifying households.
Would a permanent increase help the economy? 
"Research suggests any impact would be small," the Tax Policy Center, a joint initiative of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution, wrote in an analysis after the president made the same proposal last year. The change, it concluded, would "have only small effects on overall work effort."

        
Who Benefits From the Safety Net
        
The True Federal Debt
        
The Dependence Economy
        
Good Parent, Bad Parent
        
Tilting the Budget Process to the G.O.P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (93%); FAMILY (92%); INCOME TAX (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (64%) benefits; earned income tax credit; federal budget; social safety net; Obama, Barack; American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (2009); Federal Budget (US); Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



563 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Let's Move, She Said - and We Have

BYLINE: EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL


HIGHLIGHT: In just two years, Michelle Obama's campaign against childhood obesity has increased awareness, prompted legislation and begun to change how food companies do business. 

 BODY:
During the first spring of the Obama presidency, the First Lady broke ground on a White House vegetable garden. Then, in February 2010, she announced the Let's Move initiative, a campaign to change the way America's children eat and exercise, with the goal of ending childhood obesity in a generation. 
In the years since, what has Michelle Obama's work accomplished, besides (and I can say this from experience) the harvesting of some delicious lettuce, green beans and honey?
The answer is: a lot. One of the most important results has been increasing public awareness of the importance of obesity. In 2008, over two-thirds of adults and a third of adolescents and children in the United States were obese or overweight. Although most Americans already saw obesity as a major problem, a majority opposed increasing federal spending to combat it. This attitude has begun to change. By 2011, a Pew survey found that most Americans believe the government should play a significant role in reducing obesity among children. Today, 80 percent of Americans acknowledge that childhood obesity is a serious problem. 
Mrs. Obama's campaign has also led to improvements in the access to and content of school meals - which are where many children get the bulk of their calories and nutrition. In late 2010, the lame-duck Congress passed the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act which, for the first time in 30 years, increased funding for school breakfasts and lunches above the inflation rate. The act also gives the Agriculture Department authority to set health standards for all foods sold on school property - including those in vending machines. Best of all, it reduced government paperwork to establish eligibility for free or reduced-price school meals, ensuring that tens of thousands more children will get healthy food they need. 
In conjunction with the Let's Move campaign, three of the largest food service companies that operate school cafeterias - Sodexo, Aramark and Chartwells - committed to meeting recommended levels of fat, sugar and whole grains in the next 5 years and doubling the fruits and vegetables they serve over the next 10. Then, just last month, after a long struggle that included a fight over whether pizza sauce should count as a serving of vegetables (the final verdict was that it does), federal regulations upgraded the quality of food in the school meals to ensure they contain more fruits, vegetables and whole grains, and less sodium and saturated fat. 
There has also been important progress in the private sector. Walmart, Walgreens, Supervalu and other smaller grocers have promised to build or expand 1,500 stores that sell fresh fruits and vegetables in communities without access to healthy food. The FreshWorks Fund, a team of grocery industry groups, banks and health care organizations, committed $200 million to eliminating these so-called "food deserts" in California, bringing access to nutritious groceries to millions. 
Even more impressive, Walmart announced that, by 2015, it would remove all trans fats and reduce salt and added sugars by 25 percent and 10 percent, respectively, from thousands of packaged foods it sells. We know that when Walmart drops salt by 25 percent, everyone will drop salt by 25 percent, because when Walmart demands suppliers change how they make their products, it drives the whole marketplace. Walmart has also committed to making healthier foods more affordable. 
In the restaurant world, Darden, which owns Olive Garden and Red Lobster, among others, has committed to reducing total calories and salt across its menus, and is offering vegetables, fruit and milk as the default side dishes and drink for every kid's meal. 
And there are plenty of other achievements: the Agriculture Department redesigned the cluttered food pyramid into an easier-to-follow circular symbol called MyPlate; the United States Tennis Association is building or refurbishing 3,000 tennis courts; 1,000 salad bars have been donated to schools; and, with the health care reform law, chain restaurants are posting calorie counts on their menus.
It has been only two years since Let's Move began, and we can't know yet if there has been any reduction in childhood obesity rates. After all, it took nearly 50 years to convert the country into a fat blob; it will take time to return to a slim fit. But it is possible. 
Most powerful of all, Mrs. Obama's campaign has already begun to change the way the food sector - producers, restaurants and grocery stores - approaches its youngest customers. With rising public awareness of the importance of good nutrition, companies are changing their business models, incorporating nutrition when they design and develop cereals, snacks, menus or school meals. While not all food companies have changed yet, the market is beginning to require them to come up with healthier products. At this rate, I believe we'll start seeing childhood obesity rates declining after a few more harvests of the White House garden.

        
Finally, Good News About School Lunches
        
No Turkeys Here
        
Food's New Foot Soldiers
        
The Path From Charity to Profit
        
In 'Food Deserts,' Oases of Nutrition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBESITY (94%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (92%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NUTRITION (89%); FOOD SECURITY (87%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (86%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (86%); AGRICULTURE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); OILS & FATS (70%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (69%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (69%); INFLATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HEALTH CARE (50%) childhood obesity; Diet and Nutrition; Michelle Obama; Obama, Michelle; Children and Childhood; Obesity; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Wal-Mart Stores Inc|WMT|NYSE; Ezekiel J. Emanuel

COMPANY: SODEXO (52%); ARAMARK CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: SW (PAR) (52%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc; WMT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Michelle

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



564 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: On California Swing, Gingrich Predicts Another Comeback

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich pushed back hard on any suggestion that Republicans had made up their minds that Rick Santorum is their preferred conservative standard-bearer after Mr. Santorum's victories in three state contests last week. 

 BODY:
PASADENA, Calif. -- As Newt Gingrich swooped down on donor-rich California for several days of fund-raising, he still managed to fit in a couple of rallies on Monday, where both voters and the news media peppered him with questions about the viability of his campaign after national polls showed him fading behind both Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum. 
Mr. Gingrich pushed back hard on any suggestion that Republicans had made up their minds that it was Mr. Santorum, not he, who was their preferred conservative standard-bearer after Mr. Santorum's victories in three state contests last week. 
He reminded listeners that his candidacy had been declared finished before. 
 "Santorum had a really good Tuesday and suddenly the very same people who said I was dead in June came back and said I told you so," Mr. Gingrich replied to a skeptical audience member at a Tea Party rally here. "Well I have a message for them," he said. "I'm here." 
 Earlier he answered a similar question from reporters after a Hispanic forum at a restaurant in East Los Angeles. 
"Twice I've led in the Gallup polls," he said, referring to his surge in early December and following his victory in the South Carolina primary in January. He predicted he would return to the top of polls in a few weeks. 
He dismissed any notion of dropping out before Super Tuesday on March 6, as the editors of the conservative magazine National Review called on him to do for the good of the Republican Party this week. "National Review wanted us to drop out in June," Mr. Gingrich said. "It's silly."
He even acknowledged that he had been wrong when he suggested after South Carolina that Mr. Santorum should be the one to quit the race, and for the same reason - to unify conservatives against Mr. Romeny. "He decided that wasn't a good idea and he was right," Mr. Gingrich said. 
At both rallies Mr. Gingrich emphasized issues he has decided he will use to help reintroduce himself to voters as a champion of conservative policies. A few were familiar, such as a promise of optional private Social Security accounts for young workers and to lower unemployment to 4 percent, approximately the level when he was speaker of the House in 1990s. 
And there was a newer issue, one borrowed from the erstwhile campaign of Representative Michele Bachmann: He promised to get gasoline below $2 a gallon, as it was when President Obama was inaugurated. 
Energy was the issue he hit hardest before the Tea Party audience, asserting that California had an "enormous" untapped reserve of oil in the Montery Formation, but that government and environmentalists had placed it off-limits to drilling. He mocked environmentalists, saying "the Sierra Club would be miserable" if Americans had cheaper gasoline, because "then you could afford a big truck and this is inherently bad because then you could put a gun rack in the back of it." The flicker of a culture war issue prompted laughter in the room. 
At the end, a figure in the movement challenging the legality of Mr. Obama's citizenship, Orly Taitz, rose to speak, offering a string of incendiary charges. "This man is serving in the White House with a stolen Social Security number," she said. She demanded to know what Mr. Gingrich proposed to do about "someone who wouldn't be good enough, wouldn't be certified to clean tomatoes, or clean bathrooms, is sitting in the White House."
Mr. Gingrich did not abuse her of any of those notions. But he counter-offered his own critique of Mr. Obama as weak on foreign policy and the economy. "I think I have enough issues to debate Obama," he said. 

        
On Obama Turf, A Plea for Clinton Intervention
        
Janice Hahn Keeps California House Seat for Democrats
        
Video: Reflections on Covering Jerry Brown
        
Can Brown Cure California's Budget Crisis?
        
Brown Cancels California Lease-Back Deals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (62%); US PRESIDENTS (60%) California; Gingrich, Newt; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); RICK SANTORUM (91%); MITT ROMNEY (76%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); MICHELE BACHMANN (55%) Gingrich, Newt

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) California

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



565 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Why Don't Americans Elect Scientists?

BYLINE: JOHN ALLEN PAULOS


HIGHLIGHT: Scientists lead many powerful countries, including China and Germany, but they have never gotten a political foothold in the United States. 

 BODY:
I've visited Singapore a few times in recent years and been impressed with its wealth and modernity. I was also quite aware of its world-leading programs in mathematics education and naturally noted that one of the candidates for president was Tony Tan, who has a Ph.D. in applied mathematics. Tan won the very close election and joined the government of Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, who also has a degree in mathematics.
China has even more scientists in key positions in the government. President Hu Jintao was trained as a hydraulic engineer and Premier Wen Jiabao as a geomechanical engineer. In fact, eight out of the nine top government officials in China have scientific backgrounds. There is a scattering of scientist-politicians in high government positions in other countries as well. German Chancellor Angela Merkel has a doctorate in physical chemistry, and, going back a bit, Margaret Thatcher earned a degree in chemistry.
One needn't endorse the politics of these people or countries to feel that given the complexities of an ever more technologically sophisticated world, the United States could benefit from the participation and example of more scientists in government. This is obviously no panacea - Herbert Hoover was an engineer, after all - but more people with scientific backgrounds would be a welcome counterweight to the vast majority of legislators and other officials in this country who are lawyers.
Among the 435 members of the House, for example, there are one physicist, one chemist, one microbiologist, six engineers and nearly two dozen representatives with medical training. The case of doctors and the body politic is telling. Everyone knows roughly what doctors do, and so those with medical backgrounds escape the anti-intellectual charge of irrelevance often thrown at those in the hard sciences. Witness Senator Bill Frist, Gov. Howard Dean and even Ron Paul.
This showing is sparse even with the inclusion of the doctors, but it shouldn't be too surprising. For complex historical reasons, Americans have long privately dismissed scientists and mathematicians as impractical and elitist, even while publicly paying lip service to them. 
One reason is that an abstract, scientific approach to problems and issues often leads to conclusions that are at odds with religious and cultural beliefs and scientists are sometimes tone-deaf to the social environment in which they state their conclusions. A more politically sensitive approach to problems and issues, on the other hand, often leads to positions that simply don't jibe with the facts, no matter how delicately phrased. Examples as diverse as stem cell research and the economic stimulus abound.
Politicians, whose job is in many ways more difficult than that of scientists, naturally try to sway their disparate constituencies, but the prevailing celebrity-infatuated, money-driven culture and their personal ambitions often lead them to employ rhetorical tricks rather than logical arguments. Both Republicans and Democrats massage statistics, use numbers to provide decoration rather than information, dismiss, or at least distort, the opinions of experts, torture the law of the excluded middle (i.e., flip-flop), equivocate, derogate and obfuscate.
Dinosaurs cavorting with humans, climate scientists cooking up the global warming "hoax," the health establishment using vaccines to bring about socialism - it's hard to imagine mainstream leaders in other advanced economies not laughing at such claims.
Often too interested in politics as entertainment, the media is complicit in keeping such "controversies" running. Doing so isn't hard since vivid, just-so stories and anecdotes usually trump (or should that be Trump) dry, sometimes counterintuitive facts and statistics.
Skepticism enjoins scientists - in fact all of us -- to suspend belief until strong evidence is forthcoming, but this tentativeness is no match for the certainty of ideologues and seems to suggest to many the absurd idea that all opinions are equally valid. The chimera of the fiercely independent everyman reigns. What else explains the seemingly equal weight accorded to the statements of entertainers and biological researchers on childhood vaccines? Or to pronouncements of industry lobbyists and climate scientists? Or to economic prescriptions like 9-9-9 and those of Nobel-prize winning economists?
Americans' grandiose (to use Newt Gingrich's malapropism) egalitarianism also helps explain why the eight or nine original Republican presidential candidates suffered little for espousing, or at least not clearly opposing, scientifically untenable positions. Jon Huntsman, the only exception, received excessive kudos for what seems a rather lukewarm acceptance of climate change. 
To avoid receiving the candidates' canned responses on these and other issues, I sometimes wish that a debate moderator would forgo a standard question about immigration or jobs and instead ask the candidates to solve a simple puzzle, make an elementary estimate, perform a basic calculation.
Of course, the other side of the "two cultures" chasm should bear some of the onus for this lack of communication between politicians and scientists. Too few scientists are willing to engage in public debates, to explain the relevance of their fields clearly and without jargon, and, in the process, to risk some jeering from a few colleagues. Nevertheless, American scientists do more on this front than those in most other countries.
Perhaps because the words rhyme, it's sometimes said that attitude is more important than aptitude in helping to bring about innovation, economic progress and social change. The dubious corollary is that freewheeling Americans who question authority and think outside the box have an abundance of attitude that helps make up for a declining performance in science and technology. 
Maybe so, but attitude can only go so far. There is certainly no requirement for a Singaporean science background, but scientifically literate government leaders who push for evidence-based policies and demonstrate a scientific outlook are needed more than glib panderers with attitude.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MATHEMATICS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CHEMISTRY (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (66%); RELIGION (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%) Hu Jintao; Lee Hsien Loong; Merkel, Angela; Paulos, John Allen; Wen Jiabao; Politics and Government; Science and Technology; China; Germany; Singapore; United States

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%); LEE HSIEN LOONG (88%); WEN JIABAO (87%); ANGELA MERKEL (86%); RON PAUL (56%) Hu Jintao; Lee Hsien Loong; Merkel, Angela; Paulos, John Allen; Wen Jiabao

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); GERMANY (93%) China; Germany; Singapore; United States

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



566 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: A Delicate Balance for the President

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The week ahead will test President Obama's ability to balance his policy duties with his political imperatives. 

 BODY:
THE BUDGET Mr. Obama's budget has already prompted a new debate over the federal deficit, which is expected to be more than $1 trillion, higher than the administration had forecast just months ago. Mr. Obama will unveil his spending plan with a speech at a community college in Virginia on Monday morning.
The beginning of the budget debate will play out against the background of a continuing fight over the payroll tax cut, which will expire again at the end of February unless Congress decides to extend it. And the budget will heighten the differences with House Republicans, who promise that their own budget will follow shortly.
Mr. Obama's new chief of staff, Jacob J. Lew, said on "This Week" on ABC that the president's budget would offer a stark contrast with the Republican effort.
"We need to have an economy where everyone has a fair shot, where everybody does their fair share, and where everybody plays by the same rules," said Mr. Lew, until recently the budget director. "I think that's something that is what the president spoke to in Kansas a few months ago. It's what he spoke to in the State of the Union. And it's what this budget implements."
THE MONEY CHASE The three-day swing that begins on Wednesday includes two events that are officially not tied to the campaign: a budget-related event at the Master Lock plant in Milwaukee and another economic-focused event in Seattle. But the rest of the trip is dedicated to scooping up cash.
The bulk of that money will come from Los Angeles and the San Francisco Bay Area, which have long been main sources of financial support for Mr. Obama because of the entertainment moguls of Hollywood and the tech giants of Silicon Valley.
Mr. Obama angered his Hollywood supporters recently by siding with tech companies in the legislative battle over new online piracy laws. But the White House is still eager to tap into a constituency that helped him raise millions of dollars in the 2008 campaign.
The president's recent decision to allow his top aides to help raise money for Priorities USA Action, a super PAC, does not mean that he will attend fund-raisers for the group himself. But as he mingles with very wealthy donors this week, the message is already clear that he supports the group's efforts.
CONTRACEPTION Friday's decision by the White House to make what officials called an accommodation on the contraception decision was designed to get the issue off the front pages. But religious leaders, lawmakers on Capitol Hill and Republicans on the stump are not about to let that happen.
Republican senators are preparing to vote on legislation that would undo the administration's contraception decision. "We'll be voting on that in the Senate," Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, said on "Face the Nation" on CBS. "And you can anticipate that that would happen as soon as possible."
Republicans like Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum are continuing to hammer the president, shown below on Friday announcing the decision with Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary.
At the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday, Mr. Santorum declared that the issue is "not about contraception. It's about economic liberty. It's about freedom of speech. It's about freedom of liberty. It's about government control of your lives, and it's got to stop."
And the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops issued a statement that Mr. Obama's accommodation was still "unacceptable and must be corrected."
Mr. Lew, making the rounds of the Sunday talk shows to discuss the budget, was instead repeatedly forced to defend the administration's effort to guarantee that insurers cover birth control for women.
Mr. Lew repeated that the exemptions to the requirement would continue to be discussed but that national organizations representing Catholic hospitals and charitable services had endorsed the administration's revised proposal.
In polls, a majority of Catholics say they support the administration's policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); CAUCUSES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (67%); INTERNET CRIME (50%); ONLINE PIRACY (50%); RELIGION (50%) Obama, Barack; Federal Budget (US); Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



567 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: A Lesson in Negotiation

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: The Republicans have agreed to extend the payroll tax cut without any further spending cuts. How did that happen? 

 BODY:
The Republican leaders in the House are hopping mad. Fed up. They're not going to take it anymore.
House Speaker John Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor and Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (not to be confused with the actor of the same name who starred in "Invasion of the Body Snatchers") said today that because the Democrats won't agree to pay for an extension of the payroll tax holiday with spending cuts, they are going to vote on a bill that would extend the payroll tax holiday without any spending cuts.
I'm not making this up. It's in a statement from their offices that I first read on TPM.

It explains that the Republicans really wanted a bipartisan agreement, but "to date, Democrats have refused virtually every spending cut proposed." And if Democrats "continue to refuse to negotiate in good faith, Republicans may schedule this measure for House consideration later this week pending a conversation with our members."
Passing a clean extension of the payroll tax is just fine. Of course, there is some pretty lame spin in this announcement. It claims that while Republicans were slaving away over a mutually-agreeable plan, the Democrats were proposing "job-threatening tax hikes on small business job creators." Translation: the Democrats were trying to raise taxes on people who make over $1 million a year.
"In the face of the Democrats' stonewalling and obstructionism, we are prepared to act to protect small businesses and our economy from the consequences of Washington Democrats' political games," the statement said.
Imagine that. The House Republicans are going to pass a vitally important measure bringing relief to middle class Americans in a time of economic distress. I'd say the Republicans are putting the American people ahead of their animus for the Democrats-but they haven't fully demonstrated their good will. Congress also needs to extend unemployment insurance, and the statement suggests that Republicans aren't ready to cave on that vital legislation. They probably want to make the Democrats demand it, so that it looks like they can't take "yes" for an answer.
There's a lesson here: If the Congressional Democrats and the White House stand firm on a principle, and keep up the heat, it may be possible to get the Republicans to back down. I can't resist pointing out that they should have learned this lesson a lot earlier.

        
They Sure Have Earned Their Vacation, Haven't They?
        
It's Not About Religious Freedom
        
Opinion Report: The Payroll Tax Cut, Part II
        
Maybe They Should Just Start Super PACs
        
Paying for the Payroll Tax Cut

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); BAD FAITH (68%); RELIGION (68%) John Boehner; payroll tax; Boehner, John A; Payroll Tax

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (90%); ERIC CANTOR (73%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (58%) Boehner, John A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



568 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: The Volcker Rule and the Costs of Good Intentions

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The Volcker Rule, which seeks to limit risk in banking by restricting proprietary trading, is a noble effort but could have unintended consequences. 

 BODY:
It is hard to disagree with Paul A Volcker.
But I will.
On Monday, Mr. Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman who almost single-handedly rescued the United States from the stagflation crisis of the late 1970s, wrote a 2,000-word rebuke to critics of the Volcker Rule. The rule, which is part of the Dodd-Frank Act, was Mr. Volcker's brainchild. It seeks to prevent banks from making speculative bets with shareholder money that could put themselves - and taxpayers - at risk.
The Volcker Rule is a noble and thoughtful effort to make the banking system safer in the long-term postfinancial crisis. Critics in the banking industry, however, say the new regulation comes with many embedded costs for the national and global economy.
Here's where Mr. Volcker and I differ. He says: "Not so." I say: "C'mon. It'll cost the economy, at least in the short term."
The Volcker Rule may make sense for the long-term stability of the banking system, and this column has been supportive of the rule and its rationale. But to pretend that it is without significant costs, at least here and now, is disingenuous. The rule may be the right thing to do, but let's admit the truth: it won't be cheap.
If the costs of the Volcker Rule were so de minimis, as Mr. Volcker has argued, you wouldn't see regulators, banks and even individuals submitting letters to the Federal Reserve up until the deadline for comments on Monday expressing serious concerns about the effect of the rule.
Jamie Dimon, the chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, went so far as to belittle Mr. Volcker on Monday. "Paul Volcker by his own admission has said he doesn't understand capital markets. He has proven that to me," Mr. Dimon told Fox Business. (Ouch, that was harsh.)
As this column recently noted, a number of foreign regulators have also expressed particular concern about a provision of the Volcker Rule that could keep banks from helping clients buy and sell foreign sovereign bonds - which could, in turn, make borrowing costs for foreign countries higher.
Some industry critics of the Volcker Rule say that removing big commercial banks from making their own bets will remove liquidity from the system, thereby driving up costs of everything from equities to corporate bonds. But the real debate has moved to the rules for banks involving "market making" - finding and matching buyers and sellers. The question is whether it will become so complex under the new legislation, that it will further push up trading costs for customers.
An industry study estimated that the Volcker Rule could cost companies and investors more than $350 billion. That projection, which has been criticized by some economists, could be wildly exaggerated. But even half that number has to be considered substantial.
Mr. Volcker, in his letter, doesn't buy the arguments. "The restrictions on proprietary trading by commercial banks legislated by the Dodd-Frank Act are not at all likely to have an effect on liquidity inconsistent with the public interest," he wrote. He also said that there should not be "a presumption that ever more market liquidity brings a public benefit."
Yet Mr. Volcker doesn't offer any explanation for why it won't, except to argue that less liquidity might tamp down speculative trading.
"We are a store," Mr. Dimon said as a way of rebuttal on Monday on Fox. "Remember when the client calls JPMorgan, if we don't give them the best price, we don't get the business. But the best price is a huge benefit to them."
At issue is this: Can a bank buy a series of bonds, for example, and keep some of them on their balance sheet - or to use Mr. Dimon's analogy, on the bank's store shelves - until they can find a customer?
The way the Volcker Rule is currently construed, a bank can't keep any merchandise on its shelves. It needs to match a buyer and seller; the bank is simply the middleman. The problem with this becomes clear when a banking client asks for an odd lot of a certain financial product. Historically, the bank could buy, say, 1,000 bonds and hand over the 889 that its client had requested. The 111 other bonds would sit on the firm's balance sheet until it could parcel them out to other clients who wanted to buy them.
Now, such trades may become impossible - or at least, impossibly expensive. Regulators will be watching to make sure that banks aren't trying to mask proprietary trades as market-making. In other words, regulators are nervous that clever traders might try to buy certain financial products hoping that they increase in value and then selling them - but claiming that the products had really been purchased to help a client. Understanding the intent of each trade is going to become part of the regulatory process.
"We are going to have to have a lawyer, compliance officer, doctor to see what their testosterone levels are, and a shrink, what is your intent?" Mr. Dimon said.
Mr. Volcker is particularly concerned about how banks may try to game the system. "Various arbitrage strategies, esoteric derivatives and structured products will need particular attention, and to the extent that firms continue to engage in complex activities at the demand of customers, regulators may need complex tools to monitor them," he wrote. Clearly, such trading is going to end up costing banks more, which in turn, will most likely pass those costs onto clients. (The rule is also going to cost Wall Street jobs, which some people, perhaps unfairly, don't seem to think is a bad thing.)
Finally, he also rebutted critics who say that the Volcker Rule is going to make the United States banking business less competitive with foreign rivals who don't have such restrictions. Mr. Volcker calls such criticism "superficial," saying: "Competition in banking, here as elsewhere, is desirable for the benefits it brings in institutional efficiency and better, more economical service to customers. Any contribution of proprietary trading to customer service and competition is not at all obvious. In fact, because of the risks, the conflicts of interest and the adverse cultural influence it may well impede effective competition."
On the surface, Mr. Volcker would seem right. But if you dig deeper into the complex needs of global corporations that are the clients of big banks these days, they sometimes seek banks to make proprietary bets to help them. In such cases, companies may now look to overseas firms.
Having said all of that, even after adding up all of the costs, the Volcker Rule still makes a whole lot of sense. In the long term, it will prevent banks from taking outsize bets and putting taxpayers at risk. But just remember, this change doesn't come without a price.

Volcker's Letter to Regulators on Proprietary Trading

        
Details Emerge on Draft of Volcker Rule
        
At Volcker Rule Deadline, a Strong Pushback From Wall St.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%) Dodd-Frank Act; Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase &; Paul A. Volcker; Paul Volcker; proprietary trading; Volcker Rule; Dimon, James; Volcker, Paul A; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (89%) Dimon, James; Volcker, Paul A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



569 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: The Breakfast Meeting: Adele Shines at Grammys, and a New Target in Murdoch's Empire

BYLINE: NOAM COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Also, publishers court Amanda Knox, Twitter may be too easy for some journalists, MSNBC tries a smarty-pants strategy, and comparing the Clint Eastwood Chrysler ad to "Morning in America" (Reagan, not Folgers). 

 BODY:
The 23-year-old British singer Adele was the belle of the ball Sunday night at the Grammys, where she won six awards, sweeping record, song and album of the year, James C. McKinley Jr. reported from Los Angeles. But she shared the spotlight with the Foo Fighters, who captured five awards, and with the memory of Whitney Houston, whose death the day before hung over the proceedings. The show's host, LL Cool J, began with a prayer for Ms. Houston and a clip of one of her Grammy performances.

        
Jon Pareles discussed some of the highlights: Adele's singing of "Rolling in the Deep," her first public performance since having vocal cord surgery last fall; Jennifer Hudson's "brief, respectful 'I Will Always Love You,' " that wisely backed off from "imitating Ms. Houston's bravura peaks"; an old-fashioned superstar jam at the end of the show, led by Paul McCartney who performed the medley from the end of "Abbey Road."
Five employees of Rupert Murdoch's tabloid The Sun were among eight people arrested on Saturday as part of an investigation into the bribery of public officials by journalists, Ravi Somaiya reported. The arrested employees of The Sun - Mr. Murdoch's British flagship and the best-selling daily newspaper with a circulation of just over 2.7 million copies daily - include a deputy editor, chief reporter and chief foreign correspondent. The arrests came as the result of information provided by a team created at Mr. Murdoch's News Corporation to investigate wrongdoing.

        
The role of the News Corporation in providing information to police investigators that led to the arrests has created a civil war within The Sun's newsroom, Roy Greenslade writes on his blog at The Guardian's Web site. But based on this headline in Monday's Sun -- "Witch-hunt has put us behind ex-Soviet states on Press freedom" - the public focus of anger is government investigators, not the corporate ones.

        
Rupert Murdoch is said to be flying to London this week to speak to the beleaguered Sun staff.
Twitter is giving reporters a friction-free route to an audience, David Carr writes. But, as recent events like the suspension of the CNN commentator Roland Martin for antigay comments on Twitter show, sometimes a little delay between having a thought and broadcasting it can be a good thing. Journalists as well as media companies are experiencing the tension of using social media to engage readers, while remaining consumer friendly and taste appropriate.
Cleared of a murder conviction in Italy by an appeals court in October, Amanda Knox is back home and recently has been meeting with publishers about a book she wants to write about her experiences as an exchange student, including four years in prison. The book could command a seven-figure advance, Julie Bosman writes, and the questions for publishers to ponder include, will Ms. Knox be considered a sympathetic figure to most book-buyers?
Melissa Harris-Perry, a professor at Tulane University who will soon be the host of a progressive talk show on Saturdays and Sundays on MSNBC, will hold a couple of distinctions, Brian Stelter reports: the only tenured professor in the United States who serves as a cable news host, and one of a very small number of African-American women to do so. 
The film critic J. Hoberman takes a long look at the two-minute Chrysler advertisement narrated by Clint Eastwood, which aired during the Super Bowl's halftime and now has attracted more than 6.5 million views on YouTube. Fitting "Halftime in America," into the oeuvre of the director, David Gordon Green, who began as "an earnest, oddball regionalist", Mr. Hoberman writes in praise of the work on The New York Review of Books blog:
In its casting, content and positioning (little more than an hour after Obama told a pre-Super Bowl interviewer that he deserved a second term because of his successful economic policies, in the midst of the most widely watched telecast in American history), "It's Halftime in America" was a most effective bit of political theater-maybe the best of its kind since Ronald Reagan's 1984 "Morning in America."

        
On Yacht, Murdoch Catches the Twitter Wave
        
Whitney Houston, 48, Dies in Her Hotel Room
        
The Breakfast Meeting: Santorum Victory Extends Campaign, and Seeking Older Oscar Voters
        
News Corp. Is Replacing Its Head of Communications
        
Bloomberg Executive Is Said to Be in Talks to Lead Dow Jones

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); MURDER (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); LITERATURE (70%); BOOK REVIEWS (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (67%); BRIBERY (66%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (66%); JAIL SENTENCING (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (60%) " Paul McCartney; Adele; Amanda Knox; Chrylser; Clint Eastwood; Foo Fighters; Grammy Awards; LL Cool J; Melissa Harris-Perry; MSNBC; News Corporation; roland martin; rupert murdoch; The Sun; Twitter; Whitney Houston; Adele (Singer); Eastwood, Clint; Green, David Gordon; Harris-Perry, Melissa; Houston, Whitney; Knox, Amanda; McCartney, Paul; Murdoch, Rupert; Advertising and Marketing; Books and Literature; Media; News and News Media; Social Networking (Internet); Chrysler Group LLC; Sun, The (British Newspaper); News Corporation|NWSA|NASDAQ; advertising; Books; Music; New Media; Newspapers; Television; The Breakfast Meeting

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Chrysler Group LLC; Foo Fighters; MSNBC; News Corporation; Sun, The (British Newspaper); Twitter

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%) News Corporation; NWSA; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%)

PERSON: PAUL MCCARTNEY (93%); WHITNEY HOUSTON (92%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (91%); CLINT EASTWOOD (90%) Adele (Singer); Eastwood, Clint; Green, David Gordon; Harris-Perry, Melissa; Houston, Whitney; Knox, Amanda; LL Cool J; McCartney, Paul; Murdoch, Rupert

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2012



570 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Set to Phase Out Suppliers' Use of Sow Crates

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation said on Monday that it would begin working with its pork suppliers to phase out the use of so-called gestational crates, the tiny stalls in which sows are housed while pregnant.
Animal rights advocates have singled out the crates, known as sow stalls, as inhumane, and several states have moved to ban or restrict their use not only in pork production, but also in the production of eggs and veal.
''McDonald's believes gestation stalls are not a sustainable production system for the future,'' Dan Gorsky, senior vice president for supply chain management for McDonald's North America, said in a statement. ''There are alternatives we think are better for the welfare of sows.'' 
At a little more than 2 feet by 7 feet, sow stalls are too small for a pregnant pig to turn around. Being confined in a stationary position for the four months of an average pregnancy leads to a variety of health problems, including urinary tract infections, weakened bone structures, overgrown hooves and mental stress, according to animal rights advocates.
About 60 to 70 percent of the more than five million breeding sows in the United States are kept in the crates.
Several large suppliers, including Smithfield Farms and Cargill, have already begun reducing their use of the crates, but a large portion of the pork supply still comes from pigs born from sows raised in crates, Bob Langert, McDonald's vice president for sustainability, said in an interview. ''When we were looking at this over the last year, we could see more needed to be done.''
McDonald's has asked its five direct suppliers of bacon, Canadian bacon and sausage to provide their plans for reducing reliance on sow stalls. It said it would assess those plans and announce what steps it might take in response in May.
''It's not a simple process,'' Mr. Langert said. ''We buy a finished product from our suppliers, who are buying from a processing facility that is buying from producers and farmers who raise the pigs -- who in turn are buying piglets from farmers who have the sows. There are lots of stakeholders and collaboration that are going to be involved.''
Dr. Jodi Sterle, an expert on swine reproductive management at Iowa State University, said no easy alternative to sow stalls existed because feeding pigs is complicated by their hierarchical nature. ''When they are raised in groups, there is competition for food, water and space, and especially for food,'' she said.
Producers have tried a method called trickle feeding, in which small amounts of food are put into feeders throughout the day, but dominant sows tend to camp out by the feeders and push more passive animals away.
Another method uses a microchip embedded in an ear tag to manage a sow's diet and feed her in a ''cafeteria,'' but animals sometimes find ways of overcoming that technology, too. ''Basically, there's no science that provides the perfect answer right now,'' Dr. Sterle said.
The National Pork Producers Council, a trade association, said in a statement that it supported the McDonald's effort. ''Pork industry customers have expressed a desire to see changes in how pigs are raised,'' the council said. ''Farmers are responding and modifying their practices accordingly.''
During the last decade, the Humane Society of the United States has worked to raise awareness of the problems caused by the use of restrictive crates in the meat and poultry industry. Several states, including Florida and California, have passed laws banning the use of restrictive crates in meat and egg production.
The Humane Society has been in contact with McDonald's over the years about the crate issue but had stepped up the intensity of its discussions over the last month, according to Wayne Pacelle, the society's president.
The buying power of McDonald's adds a significant new dimension to the war on the practice. ''I would go so far as to say that while we've been able to pass laws against gestation crates that are very important, this announcement by McDonald's today does more to put the writing on the wall for the pork industry than anything that's happened previously,'' said Paul Shapiro, senior director for farm animal protection at the Humane Society.
McDonald's buys just 1 percent of the total pork produced in the country, but its influence is much larger. When the company required its egg suppliers to increase the amount of cage space devoted to their hens in 1999, for example, other fast-food chains followed suit and soon the vast majority of egg producers had given their chickens more space.
Burger King was the first large fast-food chain to reduce its purchases of pork produced in facilities that use gestation crates, taking that step in 2007 at the same time it began adding cage-free eggs to its supply chain, according to the Humane Society.
Before that, the celebrity chef Wolfgang Puck announced that he would stop serving foie gras, which is the liver of force-fed geese, and no longer buy veal, pork or eggs from producers that use restrictive crates.
In 2007, Smithfield Foods, the world's largest pork producer, pledged to end the use of gestation crates in the facilities it owns by 2017, a date it postponed during the economic downturn. The Humane Society then conducted an undercover investigation, releasing video of pigs in Smithfield's stalls, and the company once again pledged to stop using the crates by 2017.
The Humane Society said that Cargill is 50 percent crate-free now, and Hormel Foods recently announced that it would match Smithfield's pledge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (90%); MAMMALS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); PORK (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (77%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BEEF (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (58%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (56%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (52%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (52%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



571 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: The Church, the State and Contraception

 BODY:
To the Editor:
After reading ''Catholic Bishops Reject New Plan on Contraception'' (news article, Feb. 12), I beseech all Catholic women who know that access to contraception is an important health right for all women to let their voices be heard.
If it is left to the bishops, we won't have any contraception at all. Don't be afraid of the hierarchy of the church. Listen to your conscience and use your own common sense. 
Women of the church are predominantly the ones who make the decision to baptize their babies, take their families to church and send their children to Catholic schools. And they are the ones who bear the children. Please, speak up.
JOHANNA EPPS Santa Cruz, Calif., Feb. 12, 2012
To the Editor:
The juxtaposition couldn't be more stark or more telling: as the news section reports, the Catholic bishops have again rejected the president's popular, common-sense proposal to ensure that a woman will have coverage for birth control, regardless of where she works. Nicholas D. Kristof articulates how important access to affordable contraception is, especially for families facing economic hardship (''Beyond Pelvic Politics,'' column, Feb. 12).
Disconnected from the views in their pews, the bishops have aligned themselves squarely with birth control foes. At a time when our country needs to be focused on jobs and the economy, the bishops are providing new debate fodder to the extreme lineup in the G.O.P. presidential race (''Romney's Path on Abortion,'' front page, Feb. 12) and encouraging anti-contraception forces to hold the business of Congress hostage to their extreme agenda.
Let's hope that we don't have to wait until the November elections to put a stop to this unconscionable campaign, whose ultimate goal is to allow any business or corporation to block its employees' access to birth control.
ANDREA MILLER President, Naral Pro-Choice N.Y. New York, Feb. 12, 2012
To the Editor:
While I appreciate Nicholas D. Kristof's balanced treatment of the birth control mandate, I think that it once again demonstrates the failure of mainstream secular culture to actively engage with the teachings and values of the Catholic Church.
Is there any close familiarity with Pope Paul VI's encyclical ''Humanae Vitae'' or Pope John Paul II's book ''Love and Responsibility'' or his ''theology of the body,'' which present a vivid theological, philosophical and moral framework for Catholic understanding of the human person and sexuality?
There will be no end to ''pelvic politics'' unless the American intellectual community takes the vast thought of Catholic sexual ethics seriously instead of dismissing it as ''the Dark Ages,'' ''medieval'' or ''antichoice.'' This may not lead to full acceptance, but it will lead to greater respect for the Catholic Church and its institutions and their need for respect and liberty.
DAVID JIMENEZ Camden, N.J., Feb. 12, 2012
To the Editor:
Many thanks to Nicholas D. Kristof for connecting poverty to the contraception debate. Poverty is the fundamental women's issue, a direct result of women's being denied access to decent education and health care. When women are denied these rights, they suffer and their children suffer. There's a war being waged against women and poor people in this election year. Smart politicians should wise up.
Women, the largest and most consistent voting bloc, are paying close attention. When we learned that dollars were taken away from Planned Parenthood for breast cancer screening, women protested with one voice. The decision was quickly overturned, and Planned Parenthood gained a new list of contributors.
Republicans who ignore the rights of women shouldn't be surprised by the election's outcome when we exercise our right to vote in November.
ANN KING New York, Feb. 12, 2012
To the Editor:
It is laughable to think that Catholic and other religious institutions won't be paying for the ''free'' contraception under President Obama's proposed ''accommodation.''
The religious institutions will still pay: the insurance companies that supply the contraceptives will simply charge the religious institutions a higher premium to cover the cost of the contraceptives, plus the insurance company's additional administrative costs.
The subterfuge of the ''accommodation'' makes the attack on religious liberty and freedom of conscience only more egregious. And to think that I was considering supporting the president's re-election.
ROBERT ATKINSON New York, Feb. 12, 2012
To the Editor:
Re ''The Freedom to Choose Birth Control'' (editorial, Feb. 11):
I am struck by the quandary the United States has on issues like these by maintaining an employer-based health insurance system. If we Americans had a national single-payer system that covered all of our people, the arguments against infringement on religious liberty would be a moot point.
All women would have open access to birth control, and Catholic institutions would be free to advocate their position without private employer insurance being used as a wedge issue to divide our population.
MICHAEL OZER London, Feb. 12, 2012
The writer is a pediatrician.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANNA PARINI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); RELIGION (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); POLITICS (88%); ABORTION (78%); ETHICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



572 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: At Volcker Rule Deadline, a Strong Pushback From Wall St.

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
Wall Street made its broadest assault yet against new regulation on Monday, taking aim at a rule that has come to define the battle over how to police banks in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
Regulators in charge of writing the Volcker Rule, which would ban banks from trading with their own money, were inundated with complaints and suggestions on Monday, the deadline to comment on a draft proposal. More than 200 letters were expected to be filed by the midnight deadline on the rule, which regulators outlined in October.
Commenters included the rule's namesake, Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, who submitted a strongly worded defense of the rule's intent in a letter on Monday. Others, like consumer advocates and lawmakers, criticized the draft rule for not being tough enough.
Senators Carl Levin of Michigan and Jeff Merkley of Oregon, both Democrats, led the effort to insert the Volcker Rule in the Dodd-Frank act, the sweeping regulatory overhaul passed in response to the financial crisis. In a comment letter on Monday, the senators said the proposed rule was ''too tepid.'' 
But the loudest response came from critics like Wall Street trade groups and banks, who want to soften the rule. The rule, the critics said, is a threat to the health of the financial industry and the broader economy.
''This will make the overall economy less stable and less conducive to growth,'' David Hirschmann, head of the Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness at the Chamber of Commerce, said in a letter.
The pushback against the Volcker Rule is the latest effort under way on Wall Street to mute the impact of Dodd-Frank. But the campaign against the Volcker Rule is more pronounced than banks' earlier attempts to temper new regulations for lending and derivatives.
Wall Street firms, lawyers and trade groups churned out many Volcker Rule appeals. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, or Sifma, hired the law firm Davis Polk to write multiple pitches to regulators. A hodgepodge of Wall Street trade groups led by Sifma alone filed five comment letters on Monday, including one document that spanned 173 pages. A regulatory comment letter normally runs 10 to 20 pages. During the writing period, most big banks formed internal Volcker Rule ''task forces,'' often led by risk officers and lawyers, to coordinate the effort across trading desks and divisions, people briefed on the efforts said.
The letter writing went right down to the deadline. Over the weekend, a dozen or so lawyers huddled on the 17 floor of Davis Polk's Midtown Manhattan headquarters, making final changes to more than 10 letters written on behalf of banks and Sifma.
''I've never seen a rule-making response like this before,'' said Derek M. Bush, a partner at the law firm Cleary Gottlieb who helped write comment letters for banks and financial industry groups.
Wall Street's biggest banks even submitted their own comment letters, taking an unusually aggressive stance that underscored the importance of the issue. Ordinarily, banks prefer to have trade groups and lobbyists do the talking for them.
But with profits - and the future model of the industry - at stake, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup each submitted a comment letter, people briefed on the matter said. The letters were not yet public, but they were expected to be filed before the midnight deadline.
''Firms usually feel that it's best to work only with the trade group letter,'' said Margaret E. Tahyar, a partner at Davis Polk who worked on several Volcker Rule comment letters. ''But the Volcker Rule is such a major shift, that many, many firms felt they needed to also write letters in their own name.''
Banks have held meetings with regulators to spell out their case. Goldman officials have met six times with the Securities and Exchange Commission over the last three months.
The insurance industry also injected itself into the debate, arguing that regulators need not apply the Volcker Rule to their business, according to people briefed on the matter.
The scope of the Wall Street pushback reflects the complexity of the rule. The draft rule that regulators unveiled last October spans about 300 pages and poses some 1,300 questions for the public to address.
Now, the comment deadline ushers in a critical phase. Equipped with arguments from every side, regulators will turn their focus to completing details of the rule.
Still, it could take months for the five regulators - the Federal Reserve, the S.E.C., the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency - to sift through the hundreds of comment letters. Financial industry lawyers have already forecast that regulators will miss the July deadline to put the rule into effect.
Wall Street, sensing opportunity in a delay, urged regulators to take their time. Some letters suggested that the regulators ''repropose'' the rule, or scrap the earlier proposal altogether and start from scratch.
Supporters of the Volcker Rule say that is a ploy to delay it until after the 2012 election, which may end the Democratic control of the Senate and the White House.
''It's part of their ongoing strategy - if you can't kill the rule, you may as well delay it as long as possible,'' said Dennis Kelleher, president of Better Markets, a nonprofit group that advocates stricter financial regulation.
The Volcker Rule aims to ban banks from placing bets with their own money, a practice known as proprietary trading. The rule is based on the belief that banks that enjoy government backing - like deposit insurance - should not be able to trade in this way.
Much of the debate over the Volcker Rule will center on defining what amounts to proprietary trading. The line can be blurred between proprietary trading and legitimate market-making, a practice in which banks hold securities with the intent of selling them to a customer. Regulators have acknowledged that deciphering that gray area is difficult.
The chief critics of the Volcker Rule have seized on the imprecision, saying that securities markets rely on banks holding large inventories of bonds so that investors can buy and sell them easily. The rule's attempts to distinguish between trading and market-making ''would have significant deleterious real-world effects on financial markets and on the investors and customers that rely on such markets for liquidity,'' Sifma wrote in its comment letter.
But holding large amounts of securities has hurt banks. During the financial crisis, banks suffered huge losses on assets that were originally intended for clients, like the mortgage securities that meant big losses for Citigroup and Merrill Lynch. And banks' inventories of financial assets ballooned in the years leading up to the financial crisis, leaving them particularly vulnerable to losses when customer demand for the assets dried up.
The rule's supporters argue that banks are defining market making so broadly that it could include some forms of risky proprietary trading. ''Holding substantial securities in a trading book for an extended period obviously assumes the character of a proprietary position, particularly if not specifically hedged,'' Mr. Volcker wrote in his comment letter.
Or, as Mr. Kelleher put it, ''Calling something market making doesn't make it so.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Randall Guynn, left, Margaret E. Tahyar and Gabriel Rosenberg at Davis Polk, which handled Volcker Rule work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (88%); LEGAL SERVICES (85%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%)

COMPANY: DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (82%); CLEARY GOTTLIEB STEEN & HAMILTON LLP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (54%); JEFF MERKLEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



573 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Growth Spurt at a Bolivian Volcano Is Fertile Ground for Study

BYLINE: By JEAN FRIEDMAN-RUDOVSKY

 BODY:
UTURUNCU VOLCANO, Bolivia -- The broad hill at the base of Uturuncu is unassuming. Its gentle arc fades naturally into the Andean landscape.
But the 43-mile-long stretch of rocky soil is now an object of international scientific fascination. Satellite measurements show that the hill has been rising more than half an inch a year for almost 20 years, suggesting that the volcano, which last erupted more than 300,000 years ago, is steadily inflating.
''The size and longevity of the uplift is unprecedented,'' said Shanaka de Silva, a geologist at Oregon State University who has been studying Uturuncu since 2006. 
Taken together with other new research, he continued, the inflation means ''we could be witnessing the development of a new supervolcano.''
Such a volcano could produce an eruption of ash, rock and pumice 1,000 times the strength of the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens in Washington State, the worst volcanic event in modern American history, and 10,000 times that of the Icelandic eruptions in 2010 that paralyzed global air traffic for weeks.
Luckily, while the planet has 30 to 40 supervolcanoes -- 10 of them potentially active -- supereruptions occur only every 100,000 years or so. The last one, that of the Toba Volcano in Sumatra about 74,000 years ago, is thought to have spewed enough ash to cause a 6-to-10-year ''volcanic winter,'' a 1,000-year global cooling period and a loss of life so vast that it may have changed the course of human evolution.
''We see no evidence for an imminent supervolcanic eruption anywhere on earth,'' said Jacob B. Lowenstern, a research geologist and geochemist with the United States Geological Survey, who specializes in one of the best-known of the world's supervolcanoes -- Yellowstone, in Wyoming.
About Uturuncu, he said that while ''its rise over 20 years is certainly significant,'' there wasn't enough evidence to call it a supervolcano in the making.
Other researchers agree. But they say Uturuncu's steady inflation makes it fertile ground for study. ''It's like a tumor growing within the earth,'' Dr. de Silva said, ''and we have to understand whether it is benign or malignant.''
In 2009, with funds from the United States' National Science Foundation, an international team of seismologists, geologists, geophysicists and other experts and students formed a project called Plutons to study Uturuncu and Lazufre, a volcano on the border of Chile and Argentina. (The project's name is an acronym for the volcanoes and the researchers' institutions.)
Uturuncu was already considered potentially active. Eighteen thousand feet up its slopes (it peaks at 19,711 feet above sea level), small holes in the ground called fumaroles leak scorching sulfur gases. These may date 10,000 years and are evidence of a heat source close to the surface.
Also telling is the white soil near the summit (from a distance it looks deceptively like snow) that results from thermal changes below.
Martyn Unsworth, a geophysicist at the University of Alberta in Canada and a member of the Plutons team, studied data from 20 days of fieldwork in November using magnetotellurics, a remote radio-wave-sensing method similar to CT scanning in the human body. The findings suggested a zone of low electrical resistance far below the surface ''that is likely a magma chamber,'' he said.
University of Alaska geophysicists note a region where sound waves travel more slowly than normal, a characteristic of partly molten rock. And Noah J. Finnegan, a geomorphologist at the University of California, Santa Cruz, has concluded that the magma chamber is growing by one cubic meter (35 cubic feet) per second, though its total volume is not known.
Uturuncu is nestled in one of the planet's largest supervolcanic regions, which has six supervolcanoes across Bolivia, Chile and Argentina. Though it was long thought to be separate from those supervolcanoes, new Plutons findings reveal that magma from Uturuncu's last eruption is more similar to the supervolcanoes' than to that of the region's more common volcanoes.
For Mayel Sunagua, a Bolivian government geologist and member of the Plutons team, this is an exciting time -- ''the first broad international effort dedicated to investigating our volcanoes.'' Bolivia has 198 recognized volcanoes; 18 are considered potentially active. The country's last volcanic eruption was 10,000 years ago.
The flurry of activity here does lead some to wonder: Why focus on a potential hazard perhaps tens of thousands of years away, when other volcanic dangers are much more imminent?
''I ask myself that same question,'' Dr. Unsworth acknowledged. But he added that the research would broaden scientists' knowledge about volcanoes in general.
Dr. de Silva agrees. With its odd bulge and its other unusual signals, Uturuncu has an appealing air of mystery, he said -- and besides, ''it's kind of fun.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RISING: Satellite measurements show that Uturuncu has grown more than half an inch a year for almost 20 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH FRIEDMAN-RUDOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Ground Swell: Geologists are studying whether the Uturuncu volcano in Bolivia is forming a new supervolcano.
 CHART: UPLIFT: The volcano has been rising for more than 20 years. The chart shows uplift along a cross section of the volcano. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); MOUNTAINS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); HISTORY (76%); PHYSICS (72%); EVOLUTION THEORY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%); SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BOLIVIA (93%); INDONESIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



574 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSEUM REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: Las Vegas Embraces Bad Guys Of Its Past

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Lefty, Lucky, the Ant, Bugsy, the Snake, the Chin, Scarface, the Brain. The monikers of mobsters are like the nicknames of odd superheroes. They are two syllables of rat-tat firing, evoking creepy animals, physical protrusions or uncanny powers.
And now, here in a city where such figures were once as comfortably in their element as Zeus and his family on Olympus, they are finally getting something close to the museum they deserve: the Mob Museum, a $42 million survey of the American gangster, unfolding in 17,000 square feet of exhibition space, on three floors of a 41,000-square-foot landmark building on Stewart Avenue.
With artifacts, clever interactive displays, atmospheric exhibits and photographs and videos, we learn how Las Vegas developed out of the early-20th-century desert, and how workers on the nearby Hoover Dam gave the town its first population explosion. We see how the mob maneuvered into businesses of pleasure, not releasing its hold until late in the 20th century, when corporate casinos trumped their almost quaint predecessors.
We learn, too, of these Jewish and Italian immigrants who treated the ''land of opportunity'' as ''the opportunity to grab what they could,'' and by trafficking in blood and booze built up national empires, until they were brought down with wiretaps, informants and more blood. 
Like many things in mob-related American culture (even those nicknames), the museum mixes attraction and repulsion, sentimentality and hard-edged realism, relish and disgust. Like a gangster movie, it seduces us with these figures on the one hand, and with the other reminds us of the demands of justice. Its alluring, colloquial title, Mob Museum, is countered with a stern subtitle on the facade of this 1933 neo-Classical former post office and courthouse: the National Museum of Organized Crime and Law Enforcement.
And while the museum seeks a kind of romantic appeal by opening on Tuesday, Valentine's Day -- the 83rd anniversary, it points out, of the St. Valentine's Day Massacre in Chicago, where members of George (Bugs) Moran's gang were murdered by Al Capone's rival thugs posing as police officers -- it also makes sure to deflate gangster romance by reminding us that this cold-blooded episode was so horrific that it led to a turning point, spurring expanded federal investigation. We even see part of the original brick wall where the massacre took place, pockmarked by circled bullet holes; it serves as an eerie screen on which one of the museum's many short films, ''Bootleg Wars,'' is projected.
The tension between allure and disgust recurs throughout. We may be shocked by the description of Bruno Facciola's murder in New York City in 1990 (shot in both eyes, stabbed and a dead canary jammed in his mouth), but we also see photographs of 1950s celebrities in mob-run casinos and of glamorous film stars playing criminals. The mob is portrayed as weaving a web of evil (the museum believes John F. Kennedy's assassination was the result of mob involvement in the attempted assassination of Fidel Castro) but also as an object of fascination.
The exhibition designers, Gallagher & Associates, and the ''content developers'' Barrie Projects and the curator, Kathleen Coakley Barrie, begin their double-edged treatment soon after you enter the lobby, where the original post office boxes are still in place behind video screens and text panels.
You are lured in with an overused museological conceit: you are treated as a mobster ''under suspicion.'' The elevator to the third floor, where the exhibitions begin, includes a video of a police officer sternly reading you your Miranda rights, and the first ''gallery'' is a police ''lineup'' where photos are taken (eventually to be sold at the museum shop).
That conceit, though, is soon left behind. The emphasis is ultimately placed not on the mysterious appeal of the mob, but on the fight against it. The museum's heart is a splendidly restored courtroom, where the Senate's Special Committee to Investigate Organized Crime in Interstate Commerce held its seventh hearing in 1950, led by Estes Kefauver, a Democratic senator from Tennessee. The Kefauver hearings were held in cities across the country, televised live and seen by 30 million people -- the first media sensation. Here that courtroom becomes the backdrop to a film about the hearings.
This emphasis on enforcement grows as the exhibitions proceed, with accounts of bugged homes and telephone booths, informants marked for death, and undercover agents trying to prevent killings. The museum never leaves behind hints of mob romance -- one gallery includes heart-warming family photos of mob figures -- but such fascination is never allowed to go unanswered: the next gallery is a chronicle of thuggery and blood.
There can be no surprise in the ultimate emphasis. The president of the nonprofit governing board of the museum, Ellen B. Knowlton, was an F.B.I. special agent for 24 years and had been in charge of the agency's Las Vegas division. Another board member and one of the forces behind the museum is Oscar B. Goodman, who served as Las Vegas mayor until term limits forced his retirement; he was then able to swear in his wife, Carolyn G. Goodman, the current mayor, in his place.
Even Mr. Goodman has two perspectives: one as former mayor and the other as a former defense lawyer for many of the city's mobsters, including Meyer Lansky and Anthony Spilotro. Las Vegas, not surprisingly, doesn't come off badly in this account of its mob-marred past. This museum is meant to be an anchor to revive the downtown area. The bulk of the financing has come from the city, with additional assistance from the state and federal government, including almost $9 million in grants for the restoration and preservation of the landmark building by the architects, Westlake Reed Leskosky.
Does Las Vegas get off too easily? Maybe it always did. One comment cited here is credited to Tony Accardo, a Chicago mob boss: ''We don't want no blood there,'' he said. ''It's bad for tourist business.'' And in a gallery devoted to what is wryly called the mob's ''greatest hits,'' the murders are mainly in cities other than Las Vegas. Besides, look around, outside of downtown: the economic veneer has chipped in recent years, but the legacy of mob-run spectacle and sensation is still astonishing.
But the gangster romance is far more dominant in another mob exhibition in town. Called ''Las Vegas Mob Experience'' when it opened last year at the Tropicana, it turned visitors into mob aspirants on a journey through various stage sets representing mob history, met along the way by moving images of James Caan, Mickey Rourke and other cinematic mob personas addressing them.
The show went melodramaticallybankrupt but will soon be revived under new ownership as ''Mob Attraction Las Vegas.'' Visitors will move through stage sets of mob history; at the center is a series of galleries of artifacts provided by local gangster families.
In a gallery labeled ''To Meyer Lansky,'' there are his home movies, outfits and favorite poems; in another is living room furniture of Sam Giancana, Capone's ''efficient and ruthless triggerman.'' We are indeed meant to be attracted by these figures, and a tour I took of the show's planned script suggests that it will turn the mob into an amusing entertainment, refusing to take itself too seriously.
The Mob Museum has entirely different interests, but the tension with mob romance remains. And to a certain extent, that may be unavoidable, partly because of where we are standing: ''Las Vegas was an 'open city,' '' the exhibition tells us, ''meaning that no one syndicate dominated the town. That made it an exciting destination for mobsters nationwide who were eager to start fresh and launch new ventures.''
The mob-run hotels even shaped Las Vegas culture as we know it. Sure, they were bad guys, but the appeal here was to the potential bad guy in everyone, while guaranteeing a degree of immunity: ''What happens in Vegas, stays in Vegas.''
In displays here, the hotels of the 1950s and '60s have an avant-gardish freewheeling style. We see a photo of Elvis Presley and Liberace clowning around in the 1950s, or of Marlene Dietrich performing with Louis Armstrong at the Riviera in 1962. One picture here from the Sands shows a floating crap game that puts Nathan Detroit to shame: it is being played on a pool raft.
Moreover, in their embrace of lawlessness and in their assertion of power over life and death, mobsters could seem masters of the very forces of chance to which gamblers here are in thrall. Their gestures and decisions were as swift and sure as the click of a ball falling into a slot on the roulette wheel; their killings as mechanically ruthless as the spinning fruit on one-arm bandits. They are still the gods of Vegas. And here, with great verve, they have become objects of both homage and retribution.
The Mob Museum opens on Tuesday in Las Vegas; themobmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mob Museum: From top, the Purple Gang members trying to avoid the camera
comic strips and images celebrating the G-men of the period
and a video projecting an image of Al Capone on a brick wall where the St. Valentine's Day Massacre took place. (C1)
Decorations on the walls of the shooting simulator room at the new Mob Museum in Las Vegas.
 A display case of weapons and objects used in mob hits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); MURDER (85%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (75%); FILM (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); WIRETAPPING (65%); FILM GENRES (64%); IMPERSONATION (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



575 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Making Good Citizenship Fun

BYLINE: By RICHARD H. THALER. 
Richard H. Thaler, a professor of economics and behavioral science at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago, is the author, with Cass R. Sunstein, of ''Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness.''

 BODY:
La Jolla, Calif.
GOVERNMENTS typically use two tools to encourage citizens to engage in civic behavior like paying their taxes, driving safely or recycling their garbage: exhortation and fines. These efforts are often ineffective. So it might be a good time to expand the government's repertory to include positive reinforcement. Rewarding good behavior can work.
As every successful parent learns, one way to encourage good behavior, from room-cleaning to tooth-brushing, is to make it fun. Not surprisingly, the same principle applies to adults. Adults like to have fun, too. 
In this spirit, the Swedish division of Volkswagen has sponsored an initiative they call The Fun Theory. Their first project is documented in a highly popular (and fun) YouTube video. The idea was to get people to use a set of stairs rather than the escalator that ran alongside it. By transforming the stairs into a piano-style keyboard such that walking on the steps produced notes, they made using the stairs fun, and they found that stair use increased by 66 percent.
The musical stairs idea is more amusing than practical, so The Fun Theory sponsored a contest to generate other ideas. The winning entry suggested offering both positive and negative reinforcement to encourage safe driving. Specifically, a camera would measure the speed of passing cars. Speeders would be issued fines but some of the fine revenues would be distributed via lottery to drivers who were observed obeying the speed limit. A short test of the idea offered promising results.
This example illustrates an important behavioral point: many people love lotteries.
Some governments are already using this insight. Most colorfully, New Taipei City in Taiwan recently initiated a lottery as an inducement for dog owners to clean up after their pets. Owners who deposited dog waste into a special depository were made eligible for a lottery to win gold ingots, thus literally turning dog waste into gold. The top prize was worth about $2,000. The city reports that it halved the fecal pollution in its streets during the initiative.
Over in mainland China, lotteries are used for a different purpose: tax compliance. As in many parts of the world, China has a thriving cash economy, and it is common for small businesses like restaurants to evade paying sales tax. To combat this behavior, the government printed up special receipts that are supposed to be given to restaurant customers when they pay. Cleverly, each receipt includes a scratch-off lottery ticket, giving customers an incentive to ask for a receipt. Finance ministers in Southern Europe might take note.
Lotteries may also serve as effective motivators toward better health. A group of scholars including Kevin G. M. Volpp, a physician and social scientist at the University of Pennsylvania, ran an experiment to encourage the employees at a health care management company to undertake a health risk assessment. One group of employees was offered a 25 percent chance to win $100 as an inducement to participate. The lottery was an effective motivator, increasing participation by about 20 percentage points.
In using lotteries to motivate it is important to get the details right. Participants are likely to find a lottery more enticing if they find out whether they would have won. The Dutch government uses this principle very effectively. One of its state lotteries is based on postal codes. If your postal code is announced as the winner, you know that you would have won had you only bought a ticket. The idea is to play on people's feelings of regret.
Lotteries are just one way to provide positive reinforcement. Their power comes from the fact that the chance of winning the prize is overvalued. Of course you can simply pay people for doing the right thing, but if the payment is small, it could well backfire. (If the total dog-prize money had been divided up evenly among all those who turned in their baggies, I estimate that the price paid would have been about 25 cents per bag. Would anyone bother for that?)
An alternative to lotteries is a frequent-flyer-type reward program, where the points can be redeemed for something fun. A free goodie can be a better inducement than cash since it offers that rarest of commodities, a guilt-free pleasure. This sort of reward system has been successfully used in England to encourage recycling. In the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead outside of London, citizens could sign up for a rewards program in which they earned points depending on the weight of the material they recycled. The points were good for discounts at merchants in the area. Recycling increased by 35 percent.
The moral here is simple. If governments want to encourage good citizenship, they should try making the desired behavior more fun.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JIM STOTEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOTTERIES (87%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); SALES TAX (78%); SPEED LIMITS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (70%); PETS (68%); DOGS (68%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); HEALTH CARE (63%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (60%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



576 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Small-Cap Stocks Surge Ahead of the Big Names

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
In a Wall Street universe populated by marquee name stocks, the lesser known entities are the stars of the rally so far this year.
The Russell 2000 index, which tracks stocks with a small market capitalization, is nearing its record high with a rise of about 11 percent in the year to date. That outstrips the Russell 1000 index that measures Wall Street's large capitalization stocks and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index that measures the broader market.
The surge in the so-called small-cap stocks -- companies whose total share value is $3 billion or less -- indicates that investors' appetite for risk is growing as signs of recovery persist in the United States and euro zone leaders make progress in containing the debt crisis, market participants say. 
After investors drained more than $15 billion out of small-cap stocks last year, the largest amount since 2007, they have sunk about $2.4 billion back into those equities so far this year, according to data provided by Lipper, a Thomson Reuters company.
''It is a decent confidence barometer,'' said Scott Wren, a senior equity strategist for Wells Fargo Advisors. ''Investors are confident enough to buy some of these small companies, betting that the U.S. economy is going to continue to grow.''
Most of that money poured into the small-cap stocks in the seven days that ended Feb. 8, the last tally by Lipper. During that time, the Labor Department reported a gain of 243,000 jobs in January and the lowest unemployment rate since early 2009, while another report, from the Institute for Supply Management, showed that economic activity in the nonmanufacturing sector grew in January for the 25th consecutive month.
Tom Roseen, a senior analyst at Lipper, said there was a similar inflow into small caps in the beginning of 2011, but this year's inflows were notable because they were a turnaround from a full year in which investors focused on dividend-paying and large-capitalization stocks.
But analysts were also cautious in ascribing too much staying power in the risk trade. Volatility could return to equities because of the entrenched euro zone debt problems, the potential for a recession in Europe and concerns about economic growth in the United States.
Steven G. DeSanctis, a small-cap strategist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, noted that a lot of the inflows so far this year were by exchange-traded funds, which are highly liquid, and thus could just as easily flow out.
Pharmaceuticals, materials and technology companies are showing particularly robust returns among small caps so far this year. Inhibitex, FriendFinder Networks and Georgia Gulf are among the best small-cap performers in terms of returns, according to data tracked by the Russell index.
The stock price of Inhibitex, a biopharmaceutical company, is up more than 130 percent, mostly because it was acquired. Georgia Gulf, which makes chemical and plastic products, is up 74 percent, and FriendFinder, an Internet networking company, is up more than 200 percent.
The rebound in small-cap stocks is a sign for some analysts of a broader recovery in the financial markets. In the second half of last year, the markets were buffeted by a period of volatility from the European crisis and the credit rating downgrade of long-term United States debt, contributing to a fall in the Russell 2000 for the year of about 4 percent.
But so far this year, the broader market as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500 has had its best start since 1987. As of Monday it was up 7.5 percent for the year to date. Small-cap companies are not traded as frequently, and therefore their stock prices can be choppy. And there are fewer analysts researching these companies for investors, unlike with big names like Apple. They also are more likely to be the object of takeovers, like Inhibitex, which Bristol-Myers Squibb said in January it would acquire for $2.5 billion.
Mergers and acquisitions, which are expected to push ahead as companies come off a period of hoarding cash, usually involve small-cap companies.
''This year we are expecting an acceleration of M.& A. activity,'' said Christopher J. Colarik, small-cap portfolio manager for Glenmede Investment Management. ''Larger companies look for growth, and there are a lot of clean balance sheets.''
This was especially true in the pharmaceutical field, said Jon Eggins, portfolio manager at Russell Investments.
Since 2008, drug companies have been cautious about large investments in new research, but they are also faced with the expirations of profitable drug patents and looking for ways to bridge the potential shortfall in earnings, he said in an e-mail reply to questions.
And their revenue is mostly generated inside the United States, which means they are less influenced by turmoil in Europe.
''They are more of a niche market, and they may have a lot of room to expand geographically and internationally,'' Mr. Wren said. ''Their earnings growth rates are far in excess of what a large company might be.''
In the last 10 years, the Russell 2000 index has returned 5.6 percent, compared with 3.3 percent for the Russell 1000. ''That added return premium hasn't been for free, though, as there has been higher risk associated with this return,'' Mr. Eggins said.
Mr. DeSanctis, the strategist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said his firm's forecasts included an 11 percent return for small-cap stocks in 2012, in line with the historical annualized average.
''We have already achieved that in the first six weeks of the year,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FriendFinder is among the best of the small-cap performers in terms of returns, according to data tracked by the Russell index. (B7) CHART: STOCK INDEX PERFORMANCE IN 2012 (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EURO ZONE (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DIVIDENDS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



577 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: The Materialist Fallacy

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The half-century between 1912 and 1962 was a period of great wars and economic tumult but also of impressive social cohesion. Marriage rates were high. Community groups connected people across class.
In the half-century between 1962 and the present, America has become more prosperous, peaceful and fair, but the social fabric has deteriorated. Social trust has plummeted. Society has segmented. The share of Americans born out of wedlock is now at 40 percent and rising.
As early as the 1970s, three large theories had emerged to explain the weakening of the social fabric. Liberals congregated around an economically determinist theory. The loss of good working-class jobs undermined communities and led to the social deterioration. 
Libertarians congregated around a government-centric theory. Great Society programs enabled people to avoid work and gave young women an incentive to have children without marrying.
Neo-conservatives had a more culturally deterministic theory. Many of them had been poor during the Depression. Economic stress had not undermined the family then. Moreover, social breakdown began in the 1960s, a time of unprecedented prosperity. They argued that the abandonment of traditional bourgeois norms led to social disruption, especially for those in fragile circumstances.
Over the past 25 years, though, a new body of research has emerged, which should lead to new theories. This research tends to support a few common themes. First, no matter how social disorganization got started, once it starts, it takes on a momentum of its own. People who grow up in disrupted communities are more likely to lead disrupted lives as adults, magnifying disorder from one generation to the next.
Second, it's not true that people in disorganized neighborhoods have bad values. Their goals are not different from everybody else's. It's that they lack the social capital to enact those values.
Third, while individuals are to be held responsible for their behavior, social context is more powerful than we thought. If any of us grew up in a neighborhood where a third of the men dropped out of school, we'd be much worse off, too.
The recent research details how disruption breeds disruption. This research includes the thousands of studies on attachment theory, which show that children who can't form secure attachments by 18 months face a much worse set of chances for the rest of their lives because they find it harder to build stable relationships.
It includes the diverse work on self-control by Walter Mischel, Angela Duckworth, Roy Baumeister and others, which shows, among other things, that people raised in disrupted circumstances find it harder to control their impulses throughout their lives.
It includes the work of Annette Lareau, whose classic book, ''Unequal Childhoods,'' was just updated last year. She shows that different social classes have radically different child-rearing techniques, producing different outcomes.
Over the past two weeks, Charles Murray's book, ''Coming Apart,'' has restarted the social disruption debate. But, judging by the firestorm, you would have no idea that the sociological and psychological research of the past 25 years even existed.
Murray neglects this research in his book. Meanwhile, his left-wing critics in the blogosphere have reverted to crude 1970s economic determinism: It's all the fault of lost jobs. People who talk about behavior are blaming the victim. Anybody who talks about social norms is really saying that the poor are lazy.
Liberal economists haven't silenced conservatives, but they have completely eclipsed liberal sociologists and liberal psychologists. Even noneconomist commentators reduce the rich texture of how disadvantage is actually lived to a crude materialism that has little to do with reality.
I don't care how many factory jobs have been lost, it still doesn't make sense to drop out of high school. The influences that lead so many to do so are much deeper and more complicated than anything that can be grasped in an economic model or populist slogan.
This economic determinism would be bad enough if it was just making public debate dumber. But the amputation of sociologic, psychological and cognitive considerations makes good policy impossible.
The American social fabric is now so depleted that even if manufacturing jobs miraculously came back we still would not be producing enough stable, skilled workers to fill them. It's not enough just to have economic growth policies. The country also needs to rebuild orderly communities.
This requires bourgeois paternalism: Building organizations and structures that induce people to behave responsibly rather than irresponsibly and, yes, sometimes using government to do so.
Social repair requires sociological thinking. The depressing lesson of the last few weeks is that the public debate is dominated by people who stopped thinking in 1975.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PARENTING (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Coming Apart (Book); Unequal Childhoods (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



578 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MORONG JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: A Nuclear Plant, And a Dream, Fizzles

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

 BODY:
MORONG, the Philippines -- It is the nuclear plant of regrets, of would haves and could haves, to a generation of Filipino scientists who had dreamed of bringing nuclear power to this energy-starved country.
The Bataan Nuclear Power Plant here sits about 45 miles west of the nation's capital across Manila Bay, nearly at the tip of a peninsula rich in historical resonance and volcanic activity. Completed in 1984, it seemed destined to become the first operating nuclear plant in Southeast Asia.
Uranium, flown in from the United States on a chartered Boeing 747, was trucked in, and by 1986, the operators were ready for a penultimate step called core loading.
Then came the Chernobyl disaster, which led the Philippines to mothball the Bataan plant. Last year, just when years of patient lobbying by Philippine nuclear power advocates appeared to be paying off, the Fukushima disaster occurred. 
''We could have been the first nuclear country in Southeast Asia, but we were not able to do it,'' said Mauro Marcelo, a nuclear engineer at the National Power Corporation, the state-owned utility. ''There are several dates when we could have become a nuclear country, but every time a catastrophic event happened. We don't need to hire nuclear experts but feng shui masters to get rid of the bad luck.''
Still reeling from Fukushima, the plant's owners have decided to turn it into a tourist attraction, featuring a tour of the containment building. The plant, which has never generated a watt of electricity, is now producing revenues from the flow of tourists from the Philippines and abroad, especially Japan. Tours of the plant, whose owners sold off the uranium in 1997, are booked months ahead, said Dennis Gana, a spokesman for the utility.
On a recent tour, the Bataan plant's supporters were clearly cheered by the surprising success of the tourism project. They now made their case for nuclear power to captive audiences, describing it as critical to the Philippines, whose economy is hobbled by one of the highest electricity rates in Asia because of its reliance on fossil fuels.
The Philippines, the first country in Southeast Asia to consider nuclear power, they said, was now surrounded by nations, like Vietnam and Malaysia, that are moving to adopt nuclear power. The Philippines, outpaced by its neighbors in economic development, would fall further behind.
They ushered tourists into the plant, which had been left largely the way it was when Westinghouse built it a quarter of a century ago. A green rotary phone -- a hot line to the office of the country's president -- sat prominently in the main control room.
The handful of employees in charge of the plant's ''preservation'' expertly led visitors through a labyrinth of thick concrete walls and steel doors inside which the tropical humidity was trapped. With a showmanship befitting their new duties, they organized the tour so that it led to the piece de resistance -- the pressurized water reactor that lay nearly within touching distance from an overhead steel bridge.
''It's only here in the world that you can enter a reactor containment building and see for yourself a real reactor,'' said Reynaldo Punzalan, a technician who has been working at the site since 1979 and now leads a preservation team of 20 people.
For Mr. Punzalan, guiding tourists redeemed, perhaps a little, a quarter century's frustration: daily visual inspections of the deserted plant, the routine relieved only by the monthly rotation of steam turbines and gnawing doubts about whether ''they would ever start operating the plant.'' There were, of course, little pleasures to be found inside the plant's grounds, like the sweet mangoes that grew here or the wild goats that soldiers guarding the facility kept and occasionally slaughtered and roasted.
But they paled next to the newfound stimulation from interacting with tourists, Mr. Punzalan said. For one, old jokes could be recycled for an appreciative audience.
Take the one about the air supply pipe that hung dangerously low from the ceiling -- at eye level for a six-foot-tall person -- in the middle of a narrow corridor.
''This is one of the non-conformances. It's one of the defects listed. Westinghouse used to joke that this was designed for Filipinos,'' Mr. Punzalan said, beating Mr. Marcelo to the story. (Mr. Marcelo retold it less than a minute later.)
For Mr. Marcelo, 59, studying nuclear engineering in college ''seemed the most exciting thing at the time.'' But the dream of generating nuclear power in the Philippines went back even further, to the 1950s, with the influence of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's Atoms for Peace program. In the early 1960s, the Philippines commissioned a nuclear research reactor donated by the United States.
The fate of the Bataan plant has also been tied to the vagaries of Philippine politics, or more specifically to the feud between the Marcos and Aquino families that has shaped the Philippines in one form or another over the past four decades. Many of the plant's original and current critics oppose it because it was a project of Ferdinand Marcos, the longtime American-backed ruler.
The cost of the plant, originally estimated at $1.2 billion, eventually ballooned to $2.3 billion, and is believed to have filled the pockets of the Marcos family and friends. It was Corazon C. Aquino, who toppled Mr. Marcos in the ''people power'' revolution, who decided to mothball the plant after Chernobyl.
Mrs. Aquino's son, Benigno S. Aquino III, the current president, has publicly stated his opposition to resurrecting the plant. The biggest advocate of rehabilitating it has been a cousin of his, Mark Cojuangco, a former congressman whose side of the family broke from the current president's half a century ago and was one of the staunchest backers of Mr. Marcos.
In an interview, Mr. Cojuangco said family politics were ''irrelevant'' to his push to rehabilitate the plant, which, he said, should remain in government hands. Critics are skeptical. Mr. Cojuangco's father, Eduardo, controls San Miguel, the beverage giant that has been moving into the energy sector and has expressed interest in acquiring the Bataan plant.
So for now family politics do not favor the plant's rehabilitation. And, of course, there are still strong headwinds from Fukushima.
A dozen Japanese tourists recently peppered Mr. Punzalan, the technician, with questions about the safety of nuclear power. One of them, Fumie Shutoh, 59, said she had joined the tour to educate herself about nuclear power.
''Because of Fukushima, I felt that I couldn't trust what the government told us about nuclear power,'' Ms. Shutoh said.
After the Japanese group's bus pulled away, Mr. Punzalan, 57, who has yet to give up hope of seeing the plant operate before retiring, said, ''It was a tough crowd.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The plant, in Morong, has never generated any power.
 Top, the Bataan Nuclear Power Plant has a hot line to the office of the Philippine president, but the facility has been mothballed. Above, looking inside the plant's steel containment building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JES AZNAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); TOURISM (87%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); LOBBYING (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); UTILITY RATES (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL POWER CORP (69%); BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (69%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%) PHILIPPINES (97%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (91%); ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); UKRAINE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



579 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: House G.O.P. Yields on Extending Payroll Tax Cut

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congressional Republicans backed down on Monday from a demand that a payroll tax rollback be paid for with reductions in other programs, clearing the way for an extension of the tax cut for 160 million Americans through 2012.
After months of partisan confrontation that left the tax break hanging in the balance, Republicans suddenly offered to extend the two-percentage-point cut while continuing to haggle over added unemployment benefits and a measure to prevent a drop in fees paid to doctors by Medicare. The payroll tax holiday and jobless benefits expire at month's end, and doctors would face a 27 percent reduction in Medicare reimbursements. 
The decision, announced by House Republican leaders, was a surprise after weeks of Republicans' insistence that they would not accept extensions to any of the three benefits without offsetting the costs.
But the move underscored the desire of many Republicans -- eager to blunt Democratic accusations that they do not support tax cuts for middle-class Americans -- to put the tax cut fight behind them in an election year.
As the House-Senate committee charged with coming up with a plan to extend the benefits continued to negotiate, Republican leaders said they would introduce legislation this week to extend the payroll tax cut by itself, allowing the conference members to negotiate the unemployment proposal and the Medicare measure, known as the ''doc fix.''
Accusing Senate Democrats and President Obama of stalling negotiations, House Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said in a statement with Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, and Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House whip, that ''House Republicans will introduce a backup plan that would simply extend the payroll tax holiday for the remainder of the year while the conference negotiations continue regarding offsets, unemployment insurance and the 'doc fix.'
''If Democrats continue to refuse to negotiate in good faith, Republicans may schedule this measure for House consideration later this week pending a conversation with our members,'' the statement said.
By separating the payroll tax from jobless benefits, Republicans have somewhat boxed in Democrats, forcing them to decide whether to accept a stand-alone tax cut that touches nearly all working Americans -- and is generally more popular than the additional unemployment insurance -- or hold out for a package that covers all three programs, at a cost of about $160 billion.
Democrats, who are also eager to extend unemployment pay, were reluctant to embrace the idea of resolving the payroll tax fight separately.
Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, one of the Democratic negotiators, said Monday that the payroll tax extension should ''travel together'' with an extension of unemployment benefits and Medicare payment legislation. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, was more blunt, given that Democratic votes would likely to be needed to pass the bill since some Republicans oppose the payroll tax cut whether it is paid for or not.
''The Republican plan to decouple the payroll tax jeopardizes both the ability of seniors to see their Medicare doctors and benefits for millions of Americans who lost their jobs,'' she said. ''There is no reason all three of these priorities cannot proceed at the same time as both the House and Senate agreed.''
Still, Republicans are betting that Democrats will now move to negotiate a fast package for all three items, avoiding a stand-alone vote on the payroll measure. Of course, should the House pass such a bill, Senate Democrats could well send it back amended, with an unemployment component that is also free of payment obligations.
Even though some Republicans on the conference committee insisted last week that they were willing to let the tax break expire -- something many in the party have advocated all along -- the idea of an unpaid-for extension of the payroll tax cut had been discussed as an option for about a week among House Republican leaders and their staff. Leaders including the chairman of the negotiating committee, Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, and Mr. Boehner decided late Sunday to announce the legislation on Monday, the same day Mr. Obama revealed his budget.
In a statement, Mr. Camp said: ''I have spoken with my fellow House Republican conferees and we are committed to resolving the differences between the House and Senate. While we will continue our negotiations in good faith and remain hopeful that a deal will come together, we also recognize that the clock is ticking. As such, I fully support and think it is prudent for our leadership to take whatever action is necessary to ensure American workers are not hit with a tax increase on March 1.''
The fights not only center on how to pay for the benefits but also involve some policy components. Republicans are seeking numerous policy changes connected to unemployment benefits -- like a mandatory high school equivalency program and possible drug testing for beneficiaries -- and want to reduce the benefits to 59 weeks, far less than the 79 weeks sought by Mr. Obama and the 93 weeks proposed by Senate Democrats.
Jay Carney, a spokesman for Mr. Obama, said Monday: ''Let's just see how this process plays out. Extending unemployment insurance as well as the so-called doc fix is equally important -- certainly very important, and very important for our economy. So the president supports extending all of it, and doing it in a way that is easily achievable if folks put ideological and partisan positions aside and just get it done for the American people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Representative Chris Van Hollen, a Democrat, said Monday that a tax cut should not be considered on its own in a conference committee led by Representative Dave Camp, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BAD FAITH (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



580 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: New Faces Set For California In the Capitol

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- California's Congressional delegation, the largest and most influential in the nation, is undergoing a major upheaval, the result of reapportionment and retirements, threatening the state's influence in Washington next year and forcing members to scramble to withstand what is emerging as a generational wave.
A quarter of the state's 53-member delegation to Washington could be newcomers in the new Congress, analysts said, the result of at least 6 members retiring and strong contests in 10 other districts. By contrast, only one seat changed hands between parties in the course of 255 Congressional elections in California over the past 10 years.
The potential scope of the upheaval, easily the largest anywhere in the nation, is sinking in with every new retirement announcement. While some state leaders hail the change as a sign of a healthy democracy -- ''There's a lot to be said about mixing it up generationally, to have a constant invigoration of Congress with new fresh eyes and fresh voices,'' said Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader -- it has raised concern among officials at a time when the state is reeling from the economic downturn and is counting on Washington for assistance. 
As it is, California faces an already unsympathetic Congress as it seeks legislative support on extending a subway line from downtown Los Angeles out to Santa Monica, as well as financial support for building a high-speed rail line from Los Angeles to San Francisco. More worrisome, state officials said, California will not have the clout it once had to withstand what are shaping up to be huge cuts in federal spending in coming years as Congress and the White House try to deal with the deficit.
The development is overshadowing what had initially attracted the most attention in the redistricting process here: that Democrats, who now control 34 seats, stand to gain two to four more.
While the full impact of redistricting is beginning to clarify in California, to the benefit of Democrats, the national battle over the process -- done every decade in all the states, based on the most recent census -- continues to churn. There are several court battles over it, particularly in Texas, which at 32 members has the next biggest delegation and where elections have been put on hold as the courts rule on various conflicting maps.
The main focus of campaign strategists has not been whether the final national map will benefit one party over another -- there has been little doubt that Republicans, by virtue of having gained control of many statehouses in 2010, would have the edge -- but rather, how much of an advantage the Republicans would have.
The new political landscape in California, at least, is evidence of the far-reaching implications of the state adopting a nonpartisan redistricting process. After years of allowing state lawmakers to determine Congressional district lines, for 2012, an independent commission, created by voters in a referendum, drew districts without an eye to protecting incumbents. The commission was not even supposed to take into account where it was that incumbent lawmakers lived.
The move has been hailed by outside groups who say government has ossified. Yet from California's perspective, there is a price to be paid for this. The process in effect purges more senior incumbents at a time when other states continue to use redistricting processes that protect incumbents.
''The problem with a commission in one state and not the others is that the House of Representatives still relies to a great deal on a seniority system,'' said Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat not threatened by the wave. ''And it puts us at a disadvantage if the lines are drawn without regard to protecting some of the senior and most important members of the delegation.''
Some of the state's most senior representatives are returning home, among them Jerry Lewis, the dean of the House Republican delegation, who took office in 1979. Two of the delegation's more powerful Democrats -- Howard L. Berman, and Brad Sherman -- are engaged in a bitter primary after the redistricting process threw them into the same district. They have, between them, 45 years in the House.
David Wasserman, the House editor of The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan political newsletter, said that California had twice the seniority of any other delegation.
''One of the reasons that California accumulated so much clout was that in 2002, the Legislature passed an incumbent protection act that rendered none of the districts competitive,'' Mr. Wasserman said, referring to the last redistricting map. ''It helped California accumulate tremendous clout.''
Mr. Wasserman predicted that more incumbents would retire in the weeks ahead, chased out by the fear of running in districts filled with unfamiliar voters. There have been six retirements so far. On the Republican side, besides Mr. Lewis there are Elton Gallegly and Wally Herger, both in office since 1987. On the Democratic side, the retirement roster includes Lynn Woolsey (1993), Dennis A. Cardoza (2003) and Bob Filner (1993). In addition, Representative David Dreier, a Republican who has been in Congress since 1981, is said by colleagues to be likely to step aside.
This is not to say that California is heading for complete Congressional Siberia. Ms. Pelosi will no doubt be in Washington next year. Representative Kevin McCarthy, a Republican from Bakersfield, is the majority whip. And Darrell E. Issa, a Republican, is chairman of the House Oversight and Governmental Reform Committee and, as such, is arguably one of the more powerful members of Congress.
Ms. Pelosi, however, said that seniority was overrated. ''Yes, we have new people coming in,'' she said in an interview. ''We have people who won't be coming back. But in terms of the influence of this state, we have plenty of people here who have standing on issues.''
''There are many members who have more seniority than I do,'' she said. ''And I was the speaker of the House.''
Mr. McCarthy said the changes were both inevitable, given the age of members who are going to retire sooner than later, and would ultimately be good for the state.
''You are losing that older skill set,'' he said. ''But you are putting in someone who is younger; maybe they work a little harder.''
Still, it is hard not to argue that there will be some drawbacks. Mr. Dreier is chairman of the Rules Committee, Mr. Berman is the ranking Democrat on the Foreign Affairs Committee and Ms. Woolsey is co-chairwoman of the Progressive Caucus.
''Jerry Lewis is a real loss to California,'' Mr. Waxman said. ''As chairman of the Appropriations Committee, he always looked out for the state -- and not just his district. And without David Dreier there, it's going to be a long time until we have a chance to have a California chairman of the Rules Committee on either side of the aisle.''
For her part, Ms. Pelosi said she welcomed the independent redistricting process in California, noting that it would almost certainly increase the size of the state's Democratic delegation next year.
''I'll tell you this: If the Legislature had been in charge of redistricting California, they probably would have never given us four seats, because they would have been accused of being political,'' she said. ''So this independent commission turned out better for us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Jerry Lewis, a California Republican in the House since 1979, is retiring. Two senior Democrats, Howard Berman, center and Brad Sherman, right, face each other after redistricting. But over all, Democrats stand to gain two to four seats in the state. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL TEMCHINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
KEVIN LAMARQUE/REUTERS
 PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (51%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (50%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (58%); BRAD SHERMAN (58%); JERRY LEWIS (58%); HOWARD L BERMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



581 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Dancing to Deathbed, Traditionally

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
It was very rare and a little strange for so much to be riding on a performance of a Verdi mainstay like ''La Traviata.'' But so it was on Sunday afternoon at the Brooklyn Academy of Music when New York City Opera, in its new manifestation as a roving urban company, opened its bare-bones season with the director Jonathan Miller's intelligent and modest production of this audience favorite.
For many longtime supporters, City Opera's ability to return, after abandoning its Lincoln Center home, was something to cheer. But other veteran patrons saw it differently: after a crippling financial crisis and a protracted period of internal strife, the company has re-emerged as merely a touring outfit. 
This season there will be four productions at three theaters in New York, but to many loyal City Opera fans this plan looks like an institutional defeat dressed up as an adventurous new mission. Whether leaving Lincoln Center was a move of desperation or a declaration of independence (a little of both, it would seem), was not the question to ponder on Sunday. What mattered was the production of ''La Traviata'' itself. Was it special enough to make the retooled mission seem worthy?
The production over all was quite satisfying, offering an insightful look at the piece by Mr. Miller and an admirable young cast led by the plush-voiced soprano Laquita Mitchell and the robust tenor David Pomeroy. There was vibrant singing from the chorus and elegant playing from the orchestra, conducted with suppleness and Verdian style by Steven White.
In a way the performance had the hallmarks of what City Opera has traditionally promised its audiences, especially in the standard repertory. You may not see internationally renowned singers or the most lavish productions. But you will encounter younger, gifted, often American artists who look like the characters they are portraying and who put ego aside to be part of an integrated musical and dramatic statement.
Actually, for years, City Opera tended to take risks with productions of the staples, to be more theatrically innovative. But the Metropolitan Opera under Peter Gelb has been taking over that brand.
Mr. Miller's production, which was created for the Glimmerglass Opera in Cooperstown, N.Y., in 2009 (a co-production with the Vancouver Opera), is a traditional approach, with sets and costumes by Isabella Bywater, here directed and choreographed by Elena Araoz. This April at the Met, however, audiences can see a real avant-garde, modern-dress staging of ''Traviata'' laden with symbolism when Willy Decker's production, from last season returns.
Still, there was something stirring at the performance on Sunday. A large audience turned out and gave the cast ardent ovations. If this was not a breakthrough ''Traviata,'' it did feel like an engaging City Opera show that had come to a new neighborhood and played well in the 2,080-seat Howard Gilman Opera House.
As a director, Mr. Miller has been campaigning to rid opera of acting, or at least the exaggerated posing and gesticulating that, as he has put it, pass for acting in opera.
As at Glimmerglass, this staging is refreshingly natural. In Act I when Violetta, feeling faint, invites her party guests to begin dancing in the next room without her, Ms. Mitchell, as Violetta, rests in a chair at the salon table. When Mr. Pomeroy's Alfredo, who is smitten with Violetta, comes alone to see her, he pulls up another chair close to her and straddles its backrest. The two remain seated realistically during their first romantic exchanges.
And in the last act, when Violetta is dying, she does not stand up in a last flush of excitement on the return of her penitent lover, Alfredo, the way this scene is almost always staged. As Mr. Miller, a physician by training, said in a talk at Glimmerglass, he knows that people about to die of tuberculosis do not rise to their feet. Ms. Mitchell sang the whole act, giving an affecting performance of the aria ''Addio del passato,'' from her deathbed.
Ms. Mitchell's voice is rich, shimmering and sizable. At the end of the tense scene at the lavish home of the wealthy Flora, Violetta's friend, Ms. Mitchell carried magisterially over the chorus and orchestra. At its best, her singing was tender and expressive, though occasionally marred by pitch inconsistencies.
Yet, perhaps because she was trying to bring out the dignity of her character, a courtesan, Ms. Mitchell's performance was at times dramatically reserved and curiously flat. This reticence affected her singing, which would become generically beautiful rather than plumbing the anguish and torment of the character.
There were patches of shakiness in Mr. Pomeroy's singing, but over all he was a youthful, ardent Alfredo. His voice is basically bright, healthy and appealing. But like Ms. Mitchell, he still seemed to be finding his way into the character as presented in this production.
The biggest ovations of the afternoon went to the baritone Stephen Powell as Alfredo's disapproving father, Giorgio Germont. They were deserved. Mr. Powell brought a strong, dark and textured voice to the role and gave an elegant account of the great aria ''Di Provenza il mar,'' in which he tries to persuade Alfredo to give up his reckless affair with Violetta and return to the family home.
All in all, this was an encouraging day for City Opera and its tirelessly upbeat general director, George Steel. During the acrimonious union negotiations, the orchestra players and choristers said that Mr. Steel's vision for the company as a touring ensemble with a freelance orchestra was such a departure from its historic identity that it might as well be called something new.
That was a fair point. Mr. Steel said that he was trying to deal as best he could with a near-impossible crisis and that his new vision for the company had potential.
A compromise was reached just last month, and the union made enormous concessions. The old City Opera is gone. We should all get used to it. This new venture is worth a try.
New York City Opera's production of ''La Traviata'' runs through Saturday at the Howard Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene; (718) 636-4100, nycopera.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: La Traviata: David Pomeroy, left, and Laquita Mitchell in the New York City Opera production of the work at the Brooklyn Academy of Music's Howard Gilman Opera House. (C1)
 From left, Laquita Mitchell, David Pomeroy and Stephen Powell in New York City Opera's ''Traviata,'' the group's first production since it left Lincoln Center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (91%); DANCE (89%); THEATER (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



582 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; THE NEW OLD AGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: Tables Reserved For Only The Fittest

BYLINE: By PAULA SPAN

 BODY:
Residents at Harbor's Edge, an upscale retirement community in downtown Norfolk, Va., appreciate their gracious dining room, called the River Terrace. They like the country club cuisine, the socializing, the view of ships passing on the Elizabeth River.
Until recently, William Hodges had dinner there every evening with his wife, Betty. Dorothy and Thomas Evans hosted out-of-town guests and celebrated Thanksgiving and Christmas there with their son. Lindsay Bilisoly regularly shared meals there with his parents, Frank and Indie.
For years after Harbor's Edge, a nonprofit facility, opened in 2006, nobody seemed to care that some of these diners occupied independent living units in the high-rise building while others, in need of greater care, lived in assisted living apartments or in the facility's nursing unit.
But last spring, managers declared the River Terrace and two other dining facilities at the community off limits to anyone but independent living residents. Assisted living residents were told to use their own small dining room; nursing residents were restricted to theirs. 
Family members were instructed to join them there. But longtime friends -- and several married couples -- who lived in separate parts of the facility could no longer share meals in the main dining room. Those in assisted living or nursing care also were also barred from community events like the Fourth of July celebration.
Charges of discrimination quickly followed the new edict. ''We've been excommunicated,'' said Judith Schapiro, 83, an assisted living resident. ''I thought segregation ended in 1954.''
Harbor's Edge is not the first retirement facility to enact policies separating sicker or more disabled residents from healthier ones. Questions about how much access and autonomy residents have in such complexes, and who gets to decide, have arisen around the country, said Susan Silverstein, an AARP senior attorney.
An assisted living facility in Colorado attempted to keep walkers and wheelchairs out of a communal dining room; in 1996 a state appeals court ruled that action discriminatory. In San Francisco, an assisted living resident who used a walker sued in 2008 when administrators decreed that she couldn't use the dining room buffet but instead had to be seated for table service. That suit was settled.
In 2006, a woman in an independent living apartment in Palo Alto, Calif., sued administrators at her continuing care retirement community, or C.C.R.C., who insisted she move to assisted living. Her case was settled, as well, as was a similar one in a South Carolina C.C.R.C. the same year.
The growing popularity of this type of retirement village poses particular challenges. In a C.C.R.C., residents are able to graduate to increasingly higher levels of care without the trauma and disruption of moving to a different facility. But that also means these communities serve a population with unusually broad ranges of health and function.
About 1,880 C.C.R.C.'s now house an estimated half a million residents nationwide, said Stephen Maag of LeadingAge, an association of nonprofit elder care providers. About 130 new communities opened across the country from 2002 to 2010, and construction is likely to increase as the economy and the housing market improve, he said.
C.C.R.C.'s occupy a unusual regulatory niche, according to Joani Latimer, Virginia's long-term care ombudsman. The hybrid facilities provide care overseen by different governmental authorities: The nursing home sections are federally regulated, but assisted living units fall under state laws. Independent living units often are regarded simply as local housing.
At Harbor's Edge, the new policy initially stemmed from overcrowding, said Neil Volder, a former real estate developer who built the complex and is its executive director.
Early on, the River Terrace had room for everyone. But by last spring, independent living occupancy hit 95 percent and residents with reservations were sometimes turned away. ''People were saying to me, 'You've got to do something,''' he said.
Moreover, managers believed that the policy of letting residents of various degrees of disability dine together violated Virginia state regulations, Mr. Volder said, and left Harbor's Edge vulnerable to lawsuits or revoked licenses.
But Ms. Latimer, the state ombudsman, said in an interview that she could find no statutes setting forth several of the requirements Mr. Volder had mentioned. And other Virginia C.C.R.C.'s have avoided such prohibitions.
''We have no restrictions on where residents or their family members can dine,'' said Daniel Nimon, vice president at Westminster-Canterbury on Chesapeake Bay, in nearby Virginia Beach, which is also near capacity.
The change at Harbor's Edge caught many residents by surprise, particularly married couples. The Hodgeses had been eating together nightly, though he lived in the nursing unit and she was in independent living. Lindsay Bilisoly sometimes escorted his 90-year-old father, Frank, to dinner with his wife, Indie, 85, who remained in the independent living unit they'd originally moved into together.
''We were a happy community,'' said Ms. Schapiro, who liked to invite her grown grandchildren for dinner. ''We all intermingled. Nobody thought anything about it.''
Angry residents and their children called board members to protest the new rules. They sought help from the local ombudsman. They signed and circulated letters. When all that failed, several pooled their resources and hired an elder attorney.
That lawyer, Andrew Hook, believes the new policy violates the federal Fair Housing Act and the Americans With Disabilities Act, as well as Virginia law. ''The federal statutes are clear,'' he said. ''You can't discriminate, and the law requires reasonable accommodation'' for people with disabilities.
''You don't bar people simply because they have a physical or mental impairment that doesn't interfere with other users or require additional services,'' said Ms. Silverstein of the AARP Foundation.
Some residents support the new policy, however, including Martha Haycox, 80, past president of the Resident Advisory Council, who took pains to point out that three independent living residents with health problems are also excluded from the dining room, while many who do use it require wheelchairs or walkers.
''It happened to me twice in one week that somebody at the next table threw up,'' requiring hasty clean-up by the maintenance staff, she said. Another time, she said, someone's wheelchair got tangled in a tablecloth at Sunday brunch and nearly pulled all the food off the buffet table.
''I should be able to have what we call quiet enjoyment,'' she said.
''It's a very upscale community,'' said Mr. Volder. ''When someone comes in wearing a coat and tie, with guests, they want an ambience of fine dining.''
Disgruntled residents acknowledge that their more disabled neighbors might pose safety problems in the dining room or sometimes behave inappropriately. But they want decisions about access to be made on an individual basis.
In December, the Harbor's Edge management offered a compromise. Assisted living residents who originally entered independent living and then transitioned may now seek an assessment determining whether they will be allowed to continue to use the dining room.
The test assigns points in various categories. If a resident is diabetic, can he make ''wise menu choices''? Avoid adding salt if he's on a low-salt diet? Residents with nine or fewer points, plus a written physician's order, will be admitted to the dining room (though they will pay an additional fee), but must be reassessed monthly or even weekly.
They still can't use the community's other restaurants, however, and ''direct admits'' to assisted living or nursing care, like Ms. Schapiro, are out of luck. Nursing care residents remain excluded, period.
So the Bilisoly, Hodges and Evans families still can't meet in the River Terrace for meals. Mrs. Evans herself could seek an assessment, but ''I'm not going to play that game,'' she said. ''It's the principle of the thing.'' The uneasiness some older adults experience when they coexist with those more impaired may be at work here, the protesters believe.
''We've run into this bigotry,'' said Mike Evans, son of Dorothy and Thomas Evans. ''I was told that people were saying, 'We didn't pay all this money to be in the same place with people who are crippled.'''
They also suspect management marketing concerns. ''They think it will appeal to newcomers more if they have the impression that the residents here are in better condition than they probably are,'' said Mr. Hodges, a retired appellate court judge who uses an electric wheelchair.
Mr. Volder denied that and said that dissenters could always move elsewhere: ''I'll make it so they get 100 percent of their money back if they're that unhappy,'' he said.
Lindsay Bilisoly said his father, a retired internist, doesn't want to move. ''We love Harbor's Edge,'' the younger Mr. Bilisoly said. ''It's beautiful. The people who take care of my father are awesome.''
But the exclusion rankles.
''Ninety-five percent of the time he's perfectly capable of eating dinner,'' Mr. Bilisoly said. ''I can take him to any restaurant in Norfolk or in the state of Virginia, except the one in the building he paid $600,000 to move into.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'EXCOMMUNICATED': Frank Bilisoly, who is in nursing care, and Judith Schapiro, in assisted living, can no longer use the main dining room at Harbor's Edge in Norfolk, Va.
 FINE DINING: The River Terrace dining room is open to independent living residents. (PHOTOGRAPHS ABOVE BY LINDSAY BILISOLY) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (87%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (79%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); THANKSGIVING (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); FAMILY (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); CALENDARS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); LITIGATION (69%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (68%); NURSES & NURSING (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (63%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (62%); APPEALS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



583 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Denver Is Urged to Hit the Sidewalks

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
DENVER -- Quite a few of the frighteningly fit live around here. On a balmy Saturday, or for that matter a frigid winter weekday before dawn, an army of them emerges to run and bike. And in their intimidating long strides and whirring spokes, they underscore why Colorado is the least obese state in the nation.
But walking to get somewhere? Different story. 
People like Gosia Kung and Dr. Andrew M. Freeman are trying to change that. In very different ways and for different reasons -- she is an architect, he a cardiologist -- they are trying to reincorporate physical activity into the sinews of a place that, despite its fantastic body mass index, lost touch like most American cities with the idea of walking as transportation.
Last year, Ms. Kung co-founded a nonprofit group called Walk Denver, which is trying to get the city certified as a ''Walk Friendly Community.'' It is also an advocate for a previously voiceless group, the ordinary walker -- whispering into the ears of city planners, or nagging if need be, and preaching to the public.
It is the physical space of a city, Ms. Kung said on a recent walk through downtown, that creates a pedestrian's view of the world. Ample sidewalks are crucial, she said, but they provide only the means of access to an environment that must then reward walkers through attractions like shopping and entertainment that cater specifically to foot traffic.
More walkers, whether strolling or striding, in turn reinforce an old idea that Ms. Kung said many cities have forgotten: better public health and improved economic life go together.
''I've always been interested in urban design -- how we interact with built environments and how it affects us,'' said Ms. Kung, who grew up in Krakow, Poland, and never got over the example of its dense and tangled medieval walking streets. Her experience in America, in turn, was immediately intertwined with the downside of the car culture.
''When I moved from Poland to the U.S. in 1997, I got my driver's license and I gained 20 pounds,'' she said.
Dr. Freeman leads a group called Walk With a Doc, which encourages patients to get out, once a month or so, to stroll the city with their physicians. The group's most recent walk, in January -- walkers can be hard-core, too, no matter the season -- drew 135 people, including 10 doctors.
''Gosia is working on making it easier and getting people inspired to do walking,'' Dr. Freeman said. ''We're out there because exercise is the best medicine. It's free, and there are no side effects.''
An added appeal to patients in an era of time-stressed medicine, he said, is the idea of extended time with a doctor, right there walking at one's side. ''We chat,'' Dr. Freeman said.
But can a walking city really be made? Or is it luck? Manhattan, almost certainly the most pedestrian-dominated urban place in America, never planned for such an outcome; density and the constriction of island life made it just happen as the city grew. Many other cities got so split up or sealed off by the explosion of road building after World War II that pedestrian life all but died, or was never even born.
Denver, founded in the 1850s during the Colorado gold rush, went a third way that city planners said gave them great hope that walkers here could find their feet again.
Certainly, the car culture left its mark, carving out concrete arteries across the city and cleaving neighborhoods where people once walked to the market or their jobs. But the underlying city grid, laid down around the streetcar system that defined Denver's early years, created a dense ring of nearby ''streetcar suburbs'' that walkers say could, with luck, one day be stitched back together by transit or pedestrian bridges.
The state's broader outdoor culture -- with its traditions of hiking and skiing that have helped keep obesity rates lower than in the rest of the nation, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, although they are higher than they used to be -- also raises hopes that urban walking can make a big comeback.
Denver city planners had already set a goal of having 15 percent of residents get to their jobs on bike or on foot by 2020, up from about 6 percent according to the most recent census survey. They said they were grateful that Ms. Kung and her volunteers were keeping the pressure on.
''There are strong biker advocacy organizations in the city, but there hasn't been one primarily focused on pedestrians,'' said Cindy Patton, a senior city planner at Denver Department of Public Works. ''We need organizations like that to push us.''
For the moment, Ms. Kung said, her goal is not an all-out mobilization of the city's would-be pedestrian army, but rather the creation of structures that would, over time, create that army.
She is working, for example, with four elementary schools to start a ''walking school bus'' program next year. Children and adult leaders would walk home together, burning a few calories and maybe absorbing a new habit.
In June, Walk Denver and a coalition of other groups plan to descend on a run-down block in north Denver for a weekend to show -- if only for a couple of days -- how economic life and foot traffic could go together. The idea, called the Better Block Project, was pioneered in Dallas around the idea that brief makeovers can pave the way for permanent change.
In the Denver demonstration project, temporary businesses selling ice cream or art will be installed in empty storefronts. Outdoor cafes will rise like flash mobs, there for a weekend and then gone, leaving an echo for inspiration. Live music will beckon people to the neighborhood, organizers say.
Money for making America, or Denver, more pedestrian friendly is not exactly falling from the sky these days. Two transportation bills now in Congress, for example, would sharply reduce or eliminate programs to foster more biking and walking. Ms. Patton at the Public Works Department said the need for grants, or ''O.P.M., other people's money,'' as she put it, was more crucial than ever.
But the flip side is that walking itself can save money in gas or bus fare and cost nothing but shoe leather. The Denver Walk With a Doc Web page, for example, uses the word ''free'' three times, in all capital letters, in case anyone should confuse with it with a regular office visit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOSIA KUNG: Architect and co-founder of Walk Denver
 Gosia Kung and other advocates of walking promote its health and social benefits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WALKING & JOGGING (90%); CITY LIFE (88%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); OBESITY (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); CITIES (74%); CARDIOLOGY (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



584 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: The Costs Of Good Intentions

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
It is hard to disagree with Paul A Volcker.
But I will.
On Monday, Mr. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman who almost single-handedly rescued the United States from the stagflation crisis of the late 1970s, wrote a 2,000-word rebuke to critics of the Volcker Rule. The rule, which is part of the Dodd-Frank Act, was Mr. Volcker's brainchild: it seeks to prevent banks from making speculative bets with shareholder money that could put themselves -- and taxpayers -- at risk.
The Volcker Rule is a noble and thoughtful effort to make the banking system safer in the long-term postfinancial crisis. Critics in the banking industry, however, say the new regulation comes with many embedded costs for the national and global economy.
Here's where Mr. Volcker and I differ. He says: ''Not so.'' I say: ''C'mon. It'll cost the economy, at least in the short term.'' 
The Volcker Rule may make sense for the long-term stability of the banking system, and this column has been supportive of the rule and its rationale. But to pretend that it is without significant costs, at least here and now, is disingenuous. The rule may be the right thing to do, but let's admit the truth: it won't be cheap.
If the costs of the Volcker Rule were so de minimis, as Mr. Volcker has argued, you wouldn't see regulators, banks and even individuals submitting letters to the Federal Reserve up until the deadline for comments on Monday expressing serious concerns about the effect of the rule.
Jamie Dimon, the chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, went so far as to belittle Mr. Volcker on Monday. ''Paul Volcker by his own admission has said he doesn't understand capital markets. He has proven that to me,'' Mr. Dimon told Fox Business. (Ouch, that was harsh.)
As this column recently noted, a number of foreign regulators have also expressed particular concern about a provision of the Volcker Rule that could keep banks from helping clients buy and sell foreign sovereign bonds -- which could, in turn, make borrowing costs for foreign countries higher.
Some industry critics of the Volcker Rule say that removing big commercial banks from making their own bets will remove liquidity from the system, thereby driving up costs of everything from equities to corporate bonds. But the real debate has moved to the rules for banks involving ''market making'' -- finding and matching buyers and sellers. The question is whether it will become so complex under the new legislation, that it will further push up trading costs for customers.
An industry study estimated that the Volcker Rule could cost companies and investors more than $350 billion. That projection, which has been criticized by some economists, could be wildly exaggerated. But even half that number has to be considered substantial.
Mr. Volcker, in his letter, doesn't buy the arguments. ''The restrictions on proprietary trading by commercial banks legislated by the Dodd-Frank Act are not at all likely to have an effect on liquidity inconsistent with the public interest,'' he wrote. He also said that there should not be ''a presumption that ever more market liquidity brings a public benefit.''
Yet Mr. Volcker doesn't offer any explanation for why it won't, except to argue that less liquidity might tamp down speculative trading.
''We are a store,'' Mr. Dimon said as a way of rebuttal on Monday on Fox. ''Remember when the client calls JPMorgan, if we don't give them the best price, we don't get the business. But the best price is a huge benefit to them.''
At issue is this: Can a bank buy a series of bonds, for example, and keep some of them on their balance sheet -- or to use Mr. Dimon's analogy, on the bank's store shelves -- until they can find a customer?
The way the Volcker Rule is currently construed, a bank can't keep any merchandise on its shelves. It needs to match a buyer and seller; the bank is simply the middleman. The problem with this becomes clear when a banking client asks for an odd lot of a certain financial product. Historically, the bank could buy, say, 1,000 bonds and hand over the 889 that its client had requested. The 111 other bonds would sit on the firm's balance sheet until it could parcel them out to other clients who wanted to buy them.
Now, such trades may become impossible -- or at least, impossibly expensive. Regulators will be watching to make sure that banks aren't trying to mask proprietary trades as market-making. In other words, regulators are nervous that clever traders might try to buy certain financial products hoping that they increase in value and then selling them -- but claiming that the products had really been purchased to help a client. Understanding the intent of each trade is going to become part of the regulatory process.
''We are going to have to have a lawyer, compliance officer, doctor to see what their testosterone levels are, and a shrink, what is your intent?'' Mr. Dimon said.
Mr. Volcker is particularly concerned about how banks may try to game the system. ''Various arbitrage strategies, esoteric derivatives and structured products will need particular attention, and to the extent that firms continue to engage in complex activities at the demand of customers, regulators may need complex tools to monitor them,'' he wrote. Clearly, such trading is going to end up costing banks more, which in turn, will most likely pass those costs onto clients. (The rule is also going to cost Wall Street jobs, which some people, perhaps unfairly, don't seem to think is a bad thing.)
Finally, he also rebutted critics who say that the Volcker Rule is going to make the United States banking business less competitive with foreign rivals who don't have such restrictions. Mr. Volcker calls such criticism ''superficial,'' saying: ''Competition in banking, here as elsewhere, is desirable for the benefits it brings in institutional efficiency and better, more economical service to customers. Any contribution of proprietary trading to customer service and competition is not at all obvious. In fact, because of the risks, the conflicts of interest and the adverse cultural influence it may well impede effective competition.''
On the surface, Mr. Volcker would seem right. But if you dig deeper into the complex needs of global corporations that are the clients of big banks these days, they sometimes seek banks to make proprietary bets to help them. In such cases, companies may now look to overseas firms.
Having said all of that, even after adding up all of the costs, the Volcker Rule still makes a whole lot of sense. In the long term, it will prevent banks from taking outsize bets and putting taxpayers at risk. But just remember, this change doesn't come without a price.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul A. Volcker says his attempt to limit risk in the banking industry does not go overboard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER FOLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); BONDS (74%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); EXECUTIVES (63%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



585 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Meet North Koreans For New Talks

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration announced on Monday that it would hold its first talks with North Korea over its nuclear weapons program since the death of the country's leader, Kim Jong-il, in December. 
The talks, to be held in Beijing on Feb. 23, will be the third since last summer to explore the possibility of resuming negotiations to get North Korea to dismantle its nuclear arsenal. They will offer a chance to gauge whether Mr. Kim's son and successor as supreme leader, Kim Jong-un, is more open to diplomacy.
The United States, along with South Korea, Japan, Russia and China, has called on North Korea to suspend activities at its nuclear sites and allow international inspectors to verify a freeze as a condition for resuming talks on a broader agreement that would provide economic and other assistance in exchange for dismantling the weapons program.
The American delegation in Beijing will be led by the administration's special envoy, Glyn T. Davies, who took over the post last fall. North Korea's delegation will be led by its long-serving nuclear negotiator, Kim Kye-gwan.
Two rounds of exploratory talks, in New York in July and Geneva in October, made no progress, and Mr. Kim's death put the issue on hold as the country orchestrated the ascension of his son, who has so far signaled little change in the country's policies.
''They've had a change, so I think the question is whether they are prepared to respond to what we are looking for in order to get back to talks,'' said the State Department's spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland.
She added, ''We thought it was a good time to see where they are.''
Since Mr. Kim's death, the Obama administration has suggested that it was open to exploring whether it was possible to cool tensions with North Korea, if not yet to warm relations. The assistant secretary of state for Asian affairs, Kurt M. Campbell, said two weeks ago that the United States was ''open to diplomacy'' with the new leadership in North Korea, though he emphasized that officials wanted to see it improve relations with South Korea first.
The negotiations to end North Korea's nuclear weapons program -- known as the six-party talks -- collapsed in 2008 at the end of the Bush administration. Since then, North Korea has expanded its nuclear ambitions, conducting a second nuclear test in 2009 and unveiling an advanced uranium enrichment plant in 2010. Relations between the two Koreas have also worsened, with the South Korean government curtailing aid shipments to the North and the North's military attacking a South Korean island that it claims.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); KIM JONG UN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



586 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Official Rebukes Syria Over Violence

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE and NEIL MacFARQUHAR; Rick Gladstone reported from New York, and Neil MacFarquhar from Beirut, Lebanon. Reporting was contributed by Hwaida Saad from Beirut, Liam Stack from Cairo, Steven Lee Myers from Washington, and Alan Cowell from London.

 BODY:
The top United Nations human rights official offered a grim appraisal of the Syrian conflict on Monday, accusing the government there of interpreting the repeated diplomatic failure to end the violence as a green light to escalate deadly attacks on its political opponents with indiscriminate brutality and ''overwhelming force'' over the past 10 days.
The appraisal, delivered in a tone of cold frustration by the official, Navi Pillay, the high commissioner for human rights, was presented at an unusual meeting of the 193-nation General Assembly devoted entirely to the Syrian conflict, despite strenuous objections from Syria and a few of its dwindling number of allies, notably Iran and North Korea. 
Ms. Pillay's appraisal, and the support for her expressed by the United States, the Arab League and a wide spectrum of diplomats at the public forum of a General Assembly meeting, amounted to a strong rebuke to Syria. But her frustration also seemed directed at the inability of the United Nations, the Arab League or any other group to devise a workable proposal to help resolve the crisis in Syria, now nearly a year old.
''The longer the international community fails to take action, the more the civilian population will suffer from countless atrocities committed against them,'' Ms. Pillay said.
She spoke more than a week after a proposed Security Council compromise resolution, aimed at ending the violence and starting reconciliation talks in a plan advanced by the Arab League, collapsed with a veto by Russia and China, which feared it was a pretext to depose President Bashar al-Assad and possibly invite outside military intervention, as happened in Libya last year.
Mr. Assad's forces, who contend they are fighting foreign-backed terrorism, have engaged in an intensive assault on his opponents, primarily in the central city of Homs, since the Security Council effort failed. Ms. Pillay said at least 300 people were killed in Homs just in the past 10 days.
''The failure of the Security Council to agree on firm collective action appears to have emboldened the Syrian government to launch an all-out assault in an effort to crush dissent with overwhelming force,'' Ms. Pillay said. She added, ''The appalling brutality that we are witnessing in Homs is a grim harbinger of worse to come.''
A new Arab League proposal announced Sunday, in which the league and the United Nations would contribute to a joint peacekeeping force in Syria, was immediately rejected by Mr. Assad as more interference in Syria's internal affairs. It also was disparaged by Russian diplomats, who saw little point in a peacekeeping force without a truce.
The Arab League proposal also found only lukewarm support among Western nations that have been outspoken in their criticism of Mr. Assad. Victoria Nuland, a spokeswoman for the State Department, told reporters in Washington that the United States was studying the Arab League proposal and that ''there are a number of challenges in getting it to come together.''
While speeches at the General Assembly were unrolling, behind the scenes diplomats were working on the text of a General Assembly resolution that they said they hoped to put to a vote later in the week. The nonbinding resolution would endorse Arab League efforts toward pursuing a cease-fire and a political solution in the conflict, they said.
In Washington, Turkey's foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, held lengthy talks on Syria with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, exploring the possibility of additional diplomatic and economic steps. Both indicated that they would attend a meeting of nations in Tunisia on Feb. 24 to discuss support for Syria's opposition after the Russia-China veto. Mrs. Clinton said the United States intended to increase humanitarian assistance to Syrians, but provided no details.
Mr. Davutoglu said that the focus remained on finding a political solution to the violence, which he added was possible ''even at this moment,'' but he also acknowledged that Turkish and other officials were considering additional steps that could involve safe havens or corridors that would require international troops.
''We cannot be silent when this humanitarian tragedy is continuing,'' he said during remarks with Mrs. Clinton. ''At this moment we are talking on diplomatic and humanitarian steps to be taken, but for other scenarios we hope that those things will not be needed, but we need to think about contingencies as well.''
Political analysts who have been following the conflict said there was little else the United States and its allies could do except strengthening economic sanctions against Mr. Assad, putting Syria's major backers, notably Russia, on the defensive as the violence escalated, and offering assistance to Mr. Assad's opponents.
''It's the best shot we have,'' said the Bruce W. Jentleson, a professor of public policy and political science at Duke University and a former senior adviser at the State Department ''The alternatives -- to back off or go in militarily -- are lousy options. It's all the more reason to keep the pressure on.''
There were conflicting reports on the fighting in Syria on Monday. The Local Coordination Committees, an activist group that has sought to document killings, said 30 people had been killed, including 4 children and a soldier who had defected. Of those victims, the group said, 11 were killed in Homs, 9 in the northern city of Idlib, 4 in Damascus, 3 in Dara'a, 2 in Aleppo and one in Hama.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, another activist group, said it had counted 20 dead, including three in Homs.
Ms. Pillay was especially critical of what she called the Syrian government's unbridled assault on Homs, an epicenter of resistance to Mr. Assad. Since the Russia-China veto at the Security Council, she said, the government had used ''tanks, mortars, rockets and artillery to pummel the city of Homs.'' Citing what she called credible accounts, Ms. Pillay said the Syrian Army had shelled ''densely populated neighborhoods of Homs in what appears to be an indiscriminate attack on civilian areas.''
Ms. Pillay also accused the Syrian Army of keeping residents trapped in their homes; cutting off their food, electricity, communications and medical aid; and in some cases firing artillery rounds into makeshift medical clinics.
She also renewed her recommendation that the Security Council refer evidence of atrocities committed by government forces in Syria to the International Criminal Court, citing what she called ''independent, credible and corroborated accounts'' that suggest that such atrocities have taken place.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Syrian tanks near the city of Homs on Sunday. The top United Nations human rights official said at least 300 people were killed in Homs in the past 10 days. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MULHAM ALNADER, VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TERRORISM (72%); VETO (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



587 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Military Cuts And Tax Plan Are Central To a Budget

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Annandale, Va.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's final budget request of his term amounts to his agenda for a desired second term, with tax increases on the affluent and cuts in spending, especially from the military, both to reduce deficits and to pay for priorities like education, public works, research and clean energy.
While Republicans issued the usual declarations that the package was dead on arrival at the Capitol on Monday, Mr. Obama harbors hope of winning some victories yet. The likelihood of a post-election lame-duck session and a raft of laws expiring at year's end -- including the Bush-era tax cuts -- could give him leverage to force compromises even on taxes. Both parties are already calculating for the prospect of a December showdown.
The budget request for the 2013 fiscal year, which starts Oct. 1, and its projections for the years that follow, reflect Mr. Obama's vision for another term in which he would switch from years of temporary stimulus measures to promoting long-term initiatives to spur new business and manufacturing activity and help educate Americans for new skills that businesses demand. 
After winding down two wars overseas, Mr. Obama proposed to make good on his often-repeated call to bring troops back and start nation-building at home in symbolic fashion: The budget would use projected military savings -- a gimmick, Republicans say -- to help pay for a six-year, $476 billion program to modernize the nation's transportation network.
And Mr. Obama once again proposed to narrow inequality in income and opportunity between high- and lower-income Americans, while also reducing annual deficits, through his proposals to raise $1.5 trillion over 10 years mostly from the wealthy but also from closing some corporate tax breaks, chiefly for oil and gas companies.
Overhauling the tax codes would be a priority in a second Obama term. Later this month, the administration will propose a revision of the corporate tax code to root out many tax breaks and lower the 35 percent rate, though Mr. Obama said the change must not raise any more revenues than the current system, despite the nation's chronic deficits.
While many of his ideas are retreads of proposals Republicans and some Democrats have blocked before, for the first time Mr. Obama proposed to tax dividends like ordinary income for taxpayers who make more than $250,000, as dividends were before the Bush administration. The change, which would nearly double the rate for affluent taxpayers to 39.6 percent from 20 percent, would raise about $206 billion over 10 years.
Republicans are certain to oppose such tax increases as they have before. But the question this year is whether Mr. Obama after the election, win or lose, can use his veto and looming budget deadlines to force some compromises -- even a ''grand bargain'' of spending cuts and revenue increases for deficit reduction could be possible, Mr. Obama has told people privately.
''The president's budget is a reasonable opening move for what will likely be major budget negotiations after the election and before the Bush tax cuts are due to expire at the end of the year,'' said Jim Kessler, vice president for policy at Third Way, a centrist policy organization.
''The real work begins in November, and right now these opening moves are just pawns shifting on the chessboard,'' Mr. Kessler added. ''As a deficit hawk, I'm guardedly optimistic about this budget.''
After the election, Republicans will be eager to forestall two legislative events. One is the expiration of the Bush-era tax cuts after Dec. 31; Mr. Obama in his budget reiterated his vow to support an extension only for taxpayers making less than $250,000. The second comes in January, when $1.2 trillion in automatic 10-year spending cuts begin, half in military programs, unless the White House and Congress agree to alternative savings.
Republicans will need Mr. Obama's signature to win legislation that alters either of those events.
The president's budget incorporates his alternative to the automatic cuts. Mr. Obama claims $3 trillion in deficit reduction from higher revenues and spending cuts, on top of nearly $1 trillion in cuts over 10 years from annual discretionary spending that he and Congress agreed to in a deal last August. That does not include the so-called entitlement programs, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, whose fast-growing costs -- especially for Medicare -- are driving the projections of mounting federal debt.
The budget, with its trade-off of higher taxes on the wealthy for initiatives benefiting lower- and middle-income workers, reflects Mr. Obama's campaign themes. Polls show that Americans by large majorities support taxing the wealthy more. And Democrats believe they have a potent issue in Republicans' dogged opposition, especially if the Republican nominee turns out to be Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor whose personal fortune and acknowledged relatively low tax rate for his investment and dividends income have had him on the defensive even in the Republican nomination contest.
Mr. Obama traveled to Northern Virginia Community College near Washington to unveil his budget before a gymnasium packed with the sort of young voters his re-election campaign is courting. As he did in the State of the Union address last month, Mr. Obama framed the budget debate as an effort to make sure ''everyone plays by the same set of rules, from Washington to Wall Street to Main Street.''
He rousingly promoted his initiatives to make college more affordable and to train workers for health care, the sciences and advanced manufacturing. And he called for Warren E. Buffett and other wealthy Americans to pay an income tax rate no lower than what secretaries pay. Mr. Obama's ''Buffett Rule'' would set a minimum 30 percent rate on income above $1 million, replacing the current alternative minimum tax that increasingly hits upper-middle-class taxpayers.
''We don't begrudge success in America,'' Mr. Obama said. But, he added, ''We do expect everybody to do their fair share, so that everybody has opportunity, not just some.''
At the Capitol, Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican minority leader, said Mr. Obama ''released a budget that isn't really a budget at all. It's a campaign document.''
He ridiculed Senate Democrats for saying they would not put the budget to a vote, though Republicans did not offer Bush administration budgets for a vote, either, given the likelihood of defeat. And Mr. McConnell chastised the White House chief of staff, Jacob J. Lew, who until recently was Mr. Obama's budget director, for incorrectly saying on Sunday television talk shows that a budget needs 60 Senate votes to pass so Republicans would block it; a budget resolution needs a simple majority.
Republicans slammed Mr. Obama for breaking a promise at the start of his term to cut the deficit in half, measured as a share of the economy. Administration officials counter that few people knew in early 2009 how severe the recession was, and each year global forces like Europe's debt crisis have stymied a full recovery.
The current year's deficit of $1.3 trillion is the same in dollar terms as when Mr. Obama took office. Measured as a share of an improved economy it is smaller -- 8.5 percent of the gross domestic product compared with 9.2 percent in 2009. For 2013 the deficit would be $901 billion, or 5.5 percent of G.D.P.
The budget projects that the deficit in 2017 will reach 3 percent of G.D.P., the level that economists generally consider the maximum sustainable one, and remain slightly below 3 percent annually through 2022. But such projections have proved minimally reliable for most presidents. Also, the projections cut off at 2022, about the point when an aging population of baby boomers will be drawing so much from federal health and retirement programs that spending will drive the accumulated federal debt to dangerous heights again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama unveiled his budget proposal Monday at a community college in Virginia. Republicans have criticized the president for not fulfilling a campaign promise on deficit cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) CHARTS: Obama's Fiscal Platform: President Obama's budget proposal for fiscal year 2013 provides details for many of the election-year priorities he has been laying out over the past months, including increased taxes on the wealthy and investments in new job-growth projects. (Source: The White House) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); BUDGETS (92%); TAX INCREASES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); VETO (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); CORPORATE TAX (74%); TAX REFORM (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



588 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Santorum, Taking On Michigan, Wants to Talk Jobs, Not Social Issues

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Rick Santorum is hoping to turn the political conversation away from the social and cultural issues that have dominated his quest for the Republican presidential nomination so far and focus instead on the economy as he prepares to compete in the big, recession-plagued battleground state of Michigan.
He heads into Michigan, which votes on Feb. 28, with solid support among conservative voters. Two new polls, by Pew and Gallup, released on Monday showed that Mr. Santorum had pulled even nationwide with Mitt Romney, who leads in the fight for delegates and who, as recently as a month ago, was leading Mr. Santorum by a margin of two to one in both those polls. 
Mr. Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, has been buoyed by strong backing from evangelical voters and Tea Party members, the Pew poll said. They came out heavily for him last week in Colorado, Minnesota and Missouri, giving him important victories that put the wind at his back.
But as he finds himself on the defensive over his positions on social issues, including a book in which he blames ''radical feminists'' for scorning stay-at-home mothers, he faces a challenge in shifting from the culture wars, which have galvanized his base, to the economic front in an attempt to expand his base.
On Thursday, Mr. Santorum is scheduled to address the Detroit Economic Club, and aides said he would weave together his proposals and present them for the first time as a single, broad blueprint for promoting growth and bringing back jobs.
The goal is to compete with Mr. Romney on the issue that Michigan voters, and others, say matters to them the most. Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts and a private equity executive at Bain Capital, has based his campaign on his economic know-how and business acumen.
''The economy and jobs and unemployment are all that anybody talks about in Michigan, and Santorum needs to talk about them, too,'' said Bill Ballenger, editor of a political newsletter called Inside Michigan Politics.
Mr. Santorum has been able to advance this far in part because of voter dissatisfaction with other candidates but also because the other candidates have not attacked him with the full force of their resources.
That is starting to change, and the media, too, is examining him with more scrutiny as he moves to the head of the pack. On Sunday, for example, he faced questions about statements in a book he wrote in 2005 saying that ''radical feminists'' had devalued women who chose motherhood over going into the work force. He also had to clarify remarks he made Thursday about his opposition to women serving in combat.
As he campaigned in previous states, Mr. Santorum addressed various aspects of the economy. But his overriding message has been that the nation cannot have a strong economy without strong families, and he has focused on the social and cultural challenges that families face. For example, Mr. Santorum, a father of seven, has proposed tripling the income tax deduction for children (a move that critics say could cost the Treasury billions of dollars a year).
He has also emphasized his blue-collar roots and refers frequently to his grandfather, who came from Italy to work in the coal mines of Pennsylvania. Those roots, he says, will help him win blue-collar votes in Rust Belt states like Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, all of which are likely to be major swing state battlegrounds in the fall.
The heart of Mr. Santorum's economic plan is to revive the nation's manufacturing base. He would do that by eliminating taxes on American-based manufacturers and on profits gained from overseas if they are reinvested on plants and equipment in the United States. He would also do away with a raft of regulations.
''We're not conceding anything to Romney on the economic front,'' said John Brabender, a senior Santorum adviser.
Michigan was expected to be a relatively straightforward victory for Mr. Romney, who was born and raised in the state. His father, George, became chief executive of American Motors and later governor of the state. Mr. Romney, in his unsuccessful first run for president in 2008, won the Michigan primary.
But in that race, Mr. Romney was perceived as the conservative, compared with Senator John McCain of Arizona, and this time, he is perceived as the moderate, compared with Mr. Santorum. Surveys of voters leaving polling places in 2008 showed that 39 percent of those voting in the Republican primary described themselves as evangelical or born-again Christians.
''Michigan has this reputation of being moderate, with Republicans like George Romney,'' Mr. Ballenger said. ''But it is one of the strongest right-to-life states in the country.''
Mr. Santorum continues to face questions about whether he will have the money to answer the expected attacks from his opponents; Mr. Romney has already accused him of being a big spender and a Washington insider.
The Santorum campaign plans to start advertising on Michigan television this week. The ''super PAC'' that backs him, the Red, White and Blue Fund, is polling in the state now to determine whether and how much to invest there, said Stuart Roy, a spokesman for the fund.
''Michigan is very enticing,'' Mr. Roy said, not only because it allocates its delegates proportionally, so even coming in second ensures delegates, but because it is Mr. Romney's home state.
Still, he said, the fund did not want to spend all of its resources in Michigan and not have enough for Super Tuesday, March 6, when 10 states vote. Moreover, he said, it had to consider that going negative against Mr. Romney would undoubtedly start to erode Mr. Santorum's own high favorability ratings.
Mr. Brabender from the Santorum campaign said that Mr. Santorum's recent success had raised the stakes and that Michigan would give him a platform unlike anything he had experienced so far.
''Having the megaphone means everything we say is more amplified,'' Mr. Brabender said, ''but also, everything is more amplified.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rick Santorum with his wife, Karen, after his victory in Missouri. He is turning his focus to the economy for the Michigan race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); RELIGION (54%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



589 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Say President's Proposed Savings Look Bigger Than They Really Are

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Republicans in and out of Washington savaged President Obama's proposed budget for the 2013 fiscal year as a broken promise on deficit reduction made worse by a series of gimmicks that overstate what budget savings there are.
The theatrics of budget day are time-honored. The party that does not hold the White House decries ''magic asterisks'' and ''Enron accounting'' in the president's budget, then declares it dead on arrival. But the indignation that greeted Mr. Obama's budget on Monday seemed to be amplified by the presidential election, debt crises already rocking Europe and the sheer size of the additional debt envisioned by the president's plan: $6.7 trillion through 2022. 
''The president has abandoned his role as leader of the nation,'' declared Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming.
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, accused the president of mocking the American people. Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, asked why the president ''is even seeking a second term'' after his ''true failure of leadership.''
At the heart of Republican objections is accounting. Mr. Obama boasted of $4 trillion in deficit reduction over the next 10 years in his proposal. Republican budget writers on Capitol Hill saw a fraction of that, as little as $300 billion.
At issue is how the government projects spending and deficits. Of the $4 trillion in deficit reduction noted by the White House, $3 trillion would come from tax increases and spending cuts. Another $900 billion would come from domestic spending caps agreed to with Republicans last year to resolve the impasse over raising the nation's statutory borrowing limit.
But if Congress and the president did nothing but continue current policies, Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the Budget Committee, said the accumulated debt over the next 10 years would be only $300 billion higher than the debt Mr. Obama is projecting if all his policies are adopted.
In large part, that is because automatic cuts to military and nonmilitary programs totaling $1.2 trillion are already set to go in force in 2013. The Obama budget assumes those cuts will not happen. The president also assumes that sharp cuts to reimbursement rates for doctors treating Medicare patients will not ever go into force. Republicans say that effectively negates $522 billion over 10 years.
Republicans also protest that President Obama is ''saving'' nearly $1 trillion by not spending over the coming decade what the United States has spent each year on wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. True, a Republican administration may have unwound those wars more slowly than the Obama administration has, but Republican budget writers say that no one believes combat costs would have stayed steady over the next 10 years. Therefore, counting savings is misleading, Republicans say, since the savings come from money that would never have been spent.
As Senate Budget Committee Republicans count it, the $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts that Mr. Obama wants to negate, the $522 billion in Medicare physician reimbursement costs and the war savings from spending that was never going to happen should be subtracted from the $3 trillion in new deficit reduction that the White House is presenting. That leaves about $300 billion in real deficit reduction over the coming decade.
A senior administration official conceded the Republican point that the $3 trillion in new deficit reduction the budget claims is offset by eliminating the across-the-board cuts scheduled to take place next year, but he dismissed its importance. Whether the White House says it is offering $3 trillion in new savings and $1 trillion in previously agreed-upon savings or $2 trillion in new savings on top of last year's $2 trillion, the total is the same: $4 trillion in deficit reduction.
The official also said that the budget does assume the cuts to Medicare reimbursement never take place, but that the deficit each year is adjusted upward to reflect that cost.
Democrats also dismissed Republican charges that war savings is budget gimmickry. Even some leading Republicans, like Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee, and Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, have used the same approach, and Republicans on the House and Senate Armed Services Committees are considering canceling automatic military spending cuts by declaring that war savings will more than make up for the lost deficit reduction.
Republican indignation on Monday came in marked contrast to their response to George W. Bush's budget proposals, which did not count costs for the wars in Iraq or Afghanistan, for the same Medicare physician payment adjustments, or for the annual cost of staving off an expansion of the alternative minimum tax.
If the Obama White House had budgeted for 2013 and beyond the way Mr. Bush had, its deficit forecast for 2022 would have been $167 billion, or 0.7 percent of the economy, one Obama administration official said. Instead, because White House budgeters are adjusting for such costs, the deficit is forecast to be 2.8 percent of the economy that year, $704 billion.
Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, who was White House budget director for some of those Bush budgets, called the Obama budget ''beyond the line.'' Asked about the gimmicks the Bush budget office used, Mr. Portman responded, ''His are at a new level.''
The one charge the White House has no defense against is that with the new budget, Mr. Obama has broken his 2009 promise to cut the deficit in half in his first term. The deficit that year was a record $1.4 trillion. The deficit in fiscal 2012 will total $1.3 trillion.
The Republican National Committee released an online advertisement to greet Budget Day with images of a toddler at play as her mother frets about the debt she will be saddled with by Mr. Obama's recklessness.
''President Obama, you broke your promise,'' the narrator scolds. ''I'll never forget that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Jeff Sessions of Alabama and John Barrasso of Wyoming, both Republicans, with a specially labeled copy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); MEDICARE (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RON JOHNSON (58%); BOB CORKER (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



590 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Money Urged For Colleges To Perform Job Training

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
As part of his budget, President Obama on Monday proposed an $8 billion Community College to Career Fund, with the goal of training two million workers for well-paying jobs in high-demand industries. 
The fund, which would need Congressional approval, would be administered jointly by the Departments of Labor and of Education. The money would be used to bolster partnerships between community colleges and businesses to train workers in areas like health care, transportation and advanced manufacturing.
In his State of the Union address, Mr. Obama called for a national commitment to help create an economy built to last by training two million workers with skills that will lead directly to a job.
Mr. Obama has for years sought to expand resources for community colleges, the main source of education and job training for most low-income Americans. In the American Graduation Initiative he announced in 2009, Mr. Obama proposed to bolster the work force by producing millions more community college graduates over the next decade. But instead of the $10 billion for community college that the administration's original plan called for, community colleges got just $2 billion for job training.
The new fund, announced at an event at Northern Virginia Community College in Annandale, Va., would support community college-based training programs that would expand training to meet the needs of employers in high-growth sectors, provide workers with the latest certified training and skills, and invest in registered apprenticeships and other on-the-job training opportunities.
The fund would also support paid internships for low-income community college students that would allow them to simultaneously earn credit for work-based learning and gain relevant employment experience.
Republicans were critical of the new spending proposals in the president's budget. While promising that the House Committee on Education and the Workforce would consider the administration's plan for expanded job-training programs, its chairman, John Kline, Republican of Minnesota, said he was skeptical.
''During his State of the Union address, the president acknowledged the need to streamline the bureaucracy in our work force investment system,'' he said in a statement. ''It now appears he is retreating from the proposal he announced less than a month ago.''
Under the proposal, states would also be able to seek money to support employer efforts to improve the skills of their work force. The fund would provide support for regional or national industry sectors to identify pressing workforce needs and develop solutions like the standardization of industry certifications, development of new training technologies and collaborations with industry employers to define and describe how skills can translate to career pathways.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (78%); APPROVALS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN KLINE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



591 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED, BEN PROTESS and KEVIN ROOSE

 BODY:
WEIGHING A BID Vodafone confirmed on Monday that it was considering an all-cash takeover bid for Cable & Wireless Worldwide, an embattled British telecommunications service provider.
Vodafone's brief statement came after a report by The Sunday Times of London that the cellphone services giant, run by Vittorio Colao, left, was weighing a bid worth $:700 million ($1.1 billion). The newspaper reported that the private equity firm Apax Partners had also expressed interest in a potential deal. 
Shares in Cable & Wireless leaped nearly 29 percent, to 25.45 pence, in trading on Monday. The share price had fallen 74 percent in the 12 months before Vodafone's announcement. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
DELAYED AGAIN The Federal Reserve has again declined to announce a decision on the fate of Capital One's $9 billion takeover of ING Direct USA, the second delay in the last week.
The Fed was expected on Monday to vote on the deal, which has drawn criticism from community banks and consumer advocates for its potential impact on the economy. Last week, the Fed also postponed a closed-door meeting about the deal without giving a reason. BEN PROTESS
I.P.O. FOR A LANDMARK The owner of the Empire State Building filed for an initial public offering on Monday.
The move is the culmination of efforts by the company's controlling Malkin family to simplify control of its sprawling real estate holdings. The offering will allow the Malkins to convert the equity held by other investors into stock in the new company, the Empire State Realty Trust. The company will be led by Anthony E. Malkin, who will become its chairman and chief executive. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
FALLING OUT OF FAVOR In a survey tracking the reputations of leading companies, only 17 percent of respondents had a positive impression of the financial services industry, according to Harris Interactive, a consulting firm.
That is lower than the 22 percent of survey participants who had a favorable opinion of the industry last year. The reputations of Bank of America, Berkshire Hathaway, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs all fell significantly in this year's survey of more than 17,000 respondents. KEVIN ROOSE
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (70%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); COMMUNITY BANKS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%)

COMPANY: VODAFONE GROUP PLC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CABLE & WIRELESS WORLDWIDE PLC (58%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (57%); ING GROEP NV (56%); ING BANK FSB (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%)

TICKER: VOD (NASDAQ) (91%); VOD (LSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); WFC (NYSE) (81%); GS (NYSE) (58%); INGA (BIT) (56%); INGA (AMS) (56%); ING (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (58%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (57%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%)

PERSON: VITTORIO COLAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



592 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: A Responsible Budget

 BODY:
President Obama's 2013 budget was greeted on Monday with Republican catcalls that it is simply a campaign document, but election-year budgets are supposed to explain priorities to voters. This one offers a clear and welcome contrast to the slashing austerity -- and protect-the-wealthy priorities -- favored by Republican Congressional leaders and the party's presidential candidates.
The president's budget calls for long-term deficit reduction, but its immediate priority is to encourage the fledgling economic recovery. Instead of trying to stabilize the budget on the backs of the poor, it would raise taxes on the wealthy and on big banks and eliminate many corporate tax loopholes. 
To put Americans back to work, it would invest $350 billion in constructing roads, rail lines and schools, and encourage manufacturing through tax incentives and research spending. It would maintain the Pell grant program for low-income college students and add new spending for teacher improvement and education reform.
Republicans, on the other hand, would cut taxes for the rich and cut almost all of that spending, heedless of the pain that it would inflict on the economy and the millions of Americans still reeling from the downturn's effects. In poll after poll, the public has made clear that it prefers the president's approach of rebuilding the economy now and tackling the deficit when the fundamentals are stronger. While Republicans have counted on voters blaming Mr. Obama for the hard times, some are beginning to worry that they will be blamed for their obstructionism. That was clear on Monday when House leaders announced that they would agree to Mr. Obama's proposal to extend the payroll tax cut for the rest of this year without insisting on drastic cuts elsewhere to pay for it.
Although the House Budget Committee chairman, Paul Ryan, said the budget proposal would leave the country ''drowning in debt,'' there are still plenty of painful cuts included. Much of that is because of the debt-ceiling agreement that Republicans engineered last year, which forced $8.5 billion in discretionary savings in next year's budget alone. That means substantial cuts to the Justice Department, Housing and Urban Development, and the Environmental Protection Agency. Clean-water programs would lose out, as would low-income heating assistance, community development block grants and space exploration programs. The White House could have found more savings in the Defense Department, which declines by $5 billion, or just 1 percent.
Unlike Republicans, Mr. Obama would trim only slightly from growth in Medicare and Medicaid. His proposed $8 billion investment in community colleges is sound. Still, it suggests that a lack of skills is at the heart of the jobs crisis. The big problems right now are a lack of jobs and a lack of demand.
If Congress were not dysfunctional -- if it cared more about economic stabilization than scoring political points -- it would sign on to a budget like this. As it is, the proposal will go nowhere, largely because of the Republican refusal to raise taxes on the wealthy and to spend money on vital programs. Senate Democrats, who don't want to make hard political choices, also share the blame. They have already said that they do not intend to pass the president's or their own budget, deferring their responsibility for a third year. At a time when honest economic planning needs all the support it can get, that's a serious mistake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); TAX INCREASES (75%); CORPORATE TAX (74%); EDUCATION REFORM (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (60%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (60%); MEDICAID (55%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



593 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Historian Who Influences Both Obama and Romney

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
THE WORLD AMERICA MADE
By Robert Kagan
149 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $21.
One thing Barack Obama and Mitt Romney seem to have in common these days is an appreciation for the neoconservative historian Robert Kagan.
The Romney campaign has retained Mr. Kagan as a foreign-policy adviser, and according to news reports, President Obama has read and been influenced by a recent Kagan essay in The New Republic, which addresses ''the myth of American decline'' and underscores the importance of the United States' maintaining its ''global responsibilities.''
That essay was based on Mr. Kagan's new book, ''The World America Made,'' a book that turns out to be a much more scattershot affair than the magazine article, a book that undermines its more potent arguments with fuzzy generalizations, debatable assertions and self-important declarations of the obvious (''It is premature for us to conclude, after ten thousand years of war, that a few decades and some technological innovations would change the nature of man and the nature of international relations.'') 
The book does make a strong case for the notion that ''the most important features of today's world -- the great spread of democracy, the prosperity, the prolonged great-power peace -- have depended directly and indirectly on power and influence exercised by the United States,'' and suggests that ''when American power declines, the institutions and norms American power supports will decline too.''
Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security adviser to President Jimmy Carter, made similar points-- with a lot more perspicuity -- in his recent book, ''Strategic Vision.''
Mr. Kagan also observes that the United States has never been omnipotent and astutely notes that ''in every single decade since the end of World War II Americans have worried about their declining influence and looked nervously as other powers seemed to be rising at their expense.''
He writes that pundits and foreign-policy makers have frequently bemoaned the foreign and domestic problems besetting the United States in the past, and points out that some recent commentators have been quick to flip-flop their assessments of America's fortunes.
In 2004, he says, Fareed Zakaria described the United States as enjoying a ''comprehensive uni-polarity'' unlike anything seen since Rome, only to start writing, a mere four years later, about the ''post-American world.''
But if some of Mr. Kagan's efforts to place America's current difficulties within a historical perspective (comparing, say, the challenges posed by China today to the threat of the Soviet Union during the cold war) can be instructive, others devolve into odd exercises in relativism or blatant rationalizations of current woes.
''Today the United States lacks the ability to have its way on many issues,'' Mr. Kagan writes, ''but this has not prevented it from enjoying just as much success, and suffering just as much failure, as in the past.''
He says that ''for all the controversy, the United States has been more successful in Iraq than it was in Vietnam'': a decidedly low bar, it must be said, and a premature conclusion, given the ever evolving situation in Iraq. And he contends that ''anyone who honestly recalls the 1970s, with Watergate, Vietnam, stagflation and the energy crisis, cannot really believe the present difficulties are unrivaled.''
Mr. Kagan's sometimes shaky reasoning is combined with a failure to grapple convincingly with crucial problems facing America today, the very problems that observers who worry about American decline have cited as clear and present dangers, including political gridlock at home, falling education scores, lowered social mobility and most important, a ballooning deficit.
Mr. Kagan hops and skips around such issues, placing way more emphasis on the military aspects of power as a measure of a country's health and global sway. For instance, of the burgeoning financial clout of China -- which already holds more than $1 trillion in United States debt -- Mr. Kagan asserts that it has implications for American power in the future ''only insofar as the Chinese translate enough of their growing economic strength into military strength.''
Other assertions made by Mr. Kagan in these pages are similarly problematic. He declares that ''great powers rarely decline suddenly'' -- the historian Niall Ferguson argued the exact opposite in his 2011 book ''Civilization'' -- yet then proceeds to offer illustrations showing that ''the decline of the British Empire'' occurred over a few brief decades. It depends, the reader supposes, on how you define ''suddenly.''
In another section of this book Mr. Kagan writes that the United States ''enjoys a unique and unprecedented ability to gain international acceptance of its power.'' The expectation of global support for American military intervention, he goes on, ''is so great that in the Iraq war of 2003, Americans were shocked and disturbed when only 38 nations participated in either the invasion or the post-invasion occupation of Iraq. It was almost unbearable to find democratic allies like France and Germany withholding their endorsement.''
Such statements about the so-called coalition of the willing play down just how controversial the Iraq war (and the Bush administration's policy of pre-emptive war) was among allies, and how negatively the invasion affected perceptions of the United States abroad.
A March 2004 Pew Global Attitudes poll, for instance, indicated that a year after the invasion of Iraq, United States favorability ratings had fallen to 58 percent in Britain, 38 percent in Germany, 30 percent in Turkey and 5 percent in Jordan. The same poll indicated that on the question of United States unilateralism, majorities in many countries felt the ''U.S. considers others not much/not at all'': 61 percent in Britain, 69 percent in Germany and 77 percent in Jordan.
As for Americans' own attitudes about the United States' role abroad, Mr. Kagan tries to rebut the sort of isolationist thinking expressed by the Republican candidate Ron Paul and his supporters and more widespread concerns that with so many problems at home today, the United States should reassess its activist role on the global stage.
Mr. Kagan writes that Americans, despite certain misgivings, have, in fact, ''developed a degree of satisfaction in their special role,'' and as proof of this, he offers this not very persuasive anecdote: ''During the seventh-inning stretch in every game at Yankee Stadium, the fans rise and offer 'a moment of silent prayer for the men and women who are stationed around the globe' for defending freedom and 'our way of life.' A tribute to those serving, yes, but with an unmistakable glint of pride in the nation's role 'around the globe.' ''
Perhaps the most annoying symptoms of this book's lapses in logic are related to Mr. Kagan's penchant for setting up straw men adversaries he can easily knock down, or rebutting what he suggests are commonly held perceptions without explaining just how widespread such views might be or acknowledging the extent to which other thinkers, before him, have also contested the theories he is faulting.
In many cases Mr. Kagan seems to be referring to Francis Fukuyama's frequently disputed thesis that liberal democracy will inevitably triumph around the world, or the psychologist Steven Pinker's also contested argument that violence has fallen drastically over thousands of years, but he does not always identify them or their followers by name.
This volume is peppered with vague lines like ''many believe that wars among the great powers are no longer possible,'' or ''it is a common perception today that the international free market system is simply a natural stage in the evolution of the global economy.''
Mr. Kagan mocks the Pollyanna-ish notion ''that nations and people had become 'socialized' to love peace and hate war''; says ''one often hears today that the United States need not worry about China and Russia''; and questions what he calls ''the common view that there can be no wars for territory, because territory no longer matters in this digitalized age of economic interdependence.''
The condescending tone of large parts of this book, along with sometimes less than coherent reasoning, distracts attention from Mr. Kagan's more original and useful ideas, and they make readers ponder the curious development that it happens to be this historian who's recently found public favor in both the Obama and Romney camps.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
Robert Kagan (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT)
 Mr. Kagan emphasizes military power as a measure of a country's health and global sway. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORAN TOMASEVIC/REUTERS) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (67%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); JIMMY CARTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

TITLE: World America Made, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012



594 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Backers of Iran Sanctions Make an Appeal to China

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
American advocacy groups that want to isolate Iran over its suspect nuclear program singled out China on Monday, using the visit to the United States by China's next leader to criticize the vast Chinese purchases of Iranian petroleum, and to urge him and President Obama to forge a common position opposing Iran's uranium enrichment.
In a letter addressed to Vice President Xi Jinping of China, a bipartisan group of former national security advisers urged him to support the sanctions efforts by the United States and the European Union, which seek to penalize Iran in part by severely limiting its ability to export oil. 
China is Iran's biggest customer for oil, which helps feed China's voracious need for energy, and China could easily undermine the oil-sanctions effort. While China has said it does not want to see Iran become a nuclear weapons power, it has also been highly critical of the American-led campaign to isolate Iran and has urged a resumption of international talks on Iran's uranium enrichment, which Iran contends is a purely peaceful endeavor.
''We believe that the value of these sanctions is to encourage the kind of diplomatic breakthrough on Iran's nuclear activities that both of our nations seek,'' read the letter from the security advisers group, the Partnership for a Secure America, based in Washington. ''In the context of your historic trip to the United States, we therefore urge you to make clear that China will significantly reduce its imports of oil from Iran, uphold the applicable resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, and use its economic influence with Tehran, coupled with robust diplomacy, to help resolve this issue peacefully.''
In a letter addressed to Mr. Obama, United Against Nuclear Iran, a New York-based group that has successfully advocated for some of the harshest American sanctions, urged him to aggressively seek concessions on the Iran issue from Mr. Xi, who is to meet with Mr. Obama on Tuesday.
''It is imperative that you state in the strongest possible terms that China's lack of cooperation in preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability is a matter of utmost concern to the United States,'' read the letter by the group's president, Mark D. Wallace. ''China must fully comprehend that the greatest security threat the United States currently faces is the prospect of a nuclear-armed Iran.''
Preparations for Mr. Xi's visit came as China exerted some of its own diplomacy on Iran, sending an assistant foreign minister, Ma Zhaoxu, to Tehran for two days of talks to discuss the nuclear issue with the deputy secretary of Iran's national security council.
In a statement posted on the Chinese Foreign Ministry's Web site, Mr. Ma said the purpose of the visit was to advance resumption of talks between Iran and the so-called P5 plus one -- the five permanent members of the Security Council plus Germany. Those talks were suspended more than a year ago, and Iran has given conflicting signals on its desire to resume them.
Mr. Ma also said China wants to ''encourage Iran to strengthen cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency to ensure the Iran nuclear issue moves forward on the proper course of dialogue.''
Iran's leaders have publicly used the 33rd anniversary of the Islamic Revolution, which Iran has been celebrating over the past few days, as a platform to denounce what they call American-led conspiracies to subvert Iran's legitimate right to nuclear energy and a secure economic future.
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, in a speech on Monday reported by Iran's Press TV Web site, said, ''All plots hatched by enemies are aimed at hindering Iran's progress because they are fearful of our country's development.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about efforts by American advocates of Iran sanctions to persuade China to reduce purchases of Iranian oil quoted incorrectly from a letter by Mark D. Wallace, president of United Against Nuclear Iran, urging President Obama to press the issue with Vice President Xi Jinping of China during Mr. Xi's visit. The letter said, ''China must fully comprehend that the greatest security threat the United States currently faces is the prospect of a nuclear-armed Iran,'' -- not ''in the prospect of a nuclear-armed Iran.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mock-ups of American helicopters and drones were displayed Monday in Tehran for the 33rd anniversary of the Islamic Revolution. The banner below the drone model, which reads ''America can't do a damn thing'' in Persian, was mistranslated into the English below it as ''American can do no wrong.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEWSHA TAVAKOLIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAN (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012



595 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: People Are Human

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: People are human. 

 BODY:
David Brooks is unhappy with the turn the conversation over the white working class has taken; that's his right, although I think he's caricaturing my position. But I do want to make a point about the nature of social explanation.
David says,
I don't care how many factory jobs have been lost, it still doesn't make sense to drop out of high school. 
True enough. But suppose we apply the same logic to another problem, say obesity:
I don't care how little manual work Americans engage in these days, or how available fast food has become, it still doesn't make sense not to stay at your ideal weight through diet and exercise.
This is also true -- yet few people do this (I don't, although I'll get on the treadmill in a few minutes).
The point is that it's perfectly possible to invoke material causes for social changes -- the prevalence of fast food making Americans heavier -- even if perfectly rational, perfectly self-controlled individuals would not respond in the way real people really do. 
Nobody -- not William Julius Wilson, not Larry Mishel, not yours truly -- denies that the bad effects of reduced opportunity would be much less if people always did what was in their best long-term interests. But people often don't, which is why loss of economic opportunity can be socially as well as economically destructive. That's not crude materialism, it's saying that people are human.
Oh, and in the comments, please stay polite.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DIETING (75%); OBESITY (75%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



596 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: A Young Green Innovator Turning Fungi into Jobs Muses on the Path to Breakthroughs

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A young inventive engineer explains how he and a partner build a 40-person (and growing) company from observations of mushrooms growing on wood chips. 

 BODY:
On a recent visit to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in upstate New York, I broke away to visit Ecovative Design, a remarkable 40-employee firm creating packaging for Dell Computer, wine shippers and other clients by turning fungi and farm waste into a durable and biodegradable substitute for foam. The company was spawned through Inventor's Studio, a course in which 20 seniors each year are challenged by engineering lecturer Burt Swersey to produce marketable innovations that are profitable, patentable and can improve the world.
Here's a short video of my tour of the business, in Green Island, N.Y., led by Eben Bayer, who developed the company with fellow student Gavin McIntyre (read more about Ecovative's history here). 
Bayer not only explains what he calls "living nanotechnology" that turns fungi into factory workers, but also discusses what qualities should be nurtured in American education to foster creative problem finding and solving.
Bayer recently made his second trip to the World Economic Forum in Switzerland, and I invited him to contribute a "Your Dot" essay on his views of the event, the limits of brainstorming and the path toward progress that fits on a finite planet. Part of what he says here and in the video tour offers a healthy challenge to the notion of the "networked path to breakthroughs" that I've focused on quite a bit.
You can read Bayer's piece below, followed by a reaction to his company from Andrew Hargadon of the University of California, Davis, who studies the roots of innovation:
In unseasonably warm Green Island, N.Y., my little company is in the process of expanding into a tall, beige, warehouse in the industrial park on the edge of town. Another 25,000 square feet devoted to the growing packaging, insulation, and other products, from mushrooms. Ecovative's "campus" now bridges a parking lot, shared with industrial pipe companies, janitorial services, and a wind turbine manufacturer. 
I'm home from a January filled with travel, including a last week spent in Davos, a stark contrast to my current local. This was my second time attending the World Economic Forum and, with another go around, I felt that I was beginning to get some perspective on the event.
Ostensibly I was there as a "CEO" representing my company, Ecovative. But as a recent graduate of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where I essentially studied innovation & creativity (along with a delightfully oversized serving of hard sciences) I found myself observing and interacting through another lens. Specifically: How does the Davos approach compare to the state of the art in these fields?
The answer? It depends on what school of thought you fall into.
We are brought up in a culture that embraces the "brainstorm" session. Get your best and brightest together, order pizza, and kick around idea's until something clicks and zynga! You just invented the next Facebook! 
But I have learned -- first in courses on innovation and creativity at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and later through my own experience running a living materials company -- that group brainstorming leads to mediocrity. Inevitably within a group a few strong perspectives emerge; even the most dynamic teams will work to rectify the dissonance between competing view points, borrowing a little here, a little there. What usually results is a grand compromise of vision, something from everyone, good at nothing. 
In comparison, great technologies, companies, and products are often driven by the focused vision of just a few principles. Apple, Polaroid, and perhaps now Facebook are all examples of this approach. You may not like their visions, but they are clear and consistent and their companies follow them with dogged dedication.
At Davos I participated in a brainstorm on new energy technologies (during which I ended up getting in a fight with Lord Hastings, but we got over it, great guy). The question we were asked to consider: What major innovation will transform energy availability this century?
The recap: I proposed a growable solar cell, the person to my right proposed global transmission lines, the next a better form of power storage, then a mirror to focus solar energy on earth, and finally our last participant talked about the importance of social change. The result? My group proposed a better portable battery, which would enable transmission of power (presumably by people carrying the battery about) that accelerates the deployment of solar power through social sharing. 
See the formula? Each individual concept could be expanded and "plussed" to excellence. Instead we compromised on an idea-chimera, which is currently shivering lonely in the cold Swiss mountains pondering its own existence and cursing its casual creators.
I did get a few delightful surprises though: Half way through one workshop we were asked to "switch" our perspective from resource scarcity to resource plenty (or vice versa, depending on where you placed yourself when starting the sessions). This type of exercise is brilliant, and crucial for creating insights, it forces the participants to re-evaluate their core assumptions, often these are hidden from us.
I felt this perspective switch was important during the scarcity session, because only a small group -- about 15 percent of people in the session of 45 -- believed resources were fundamentally constrained (e.g., earth is finite). The rest were situated on a spectrum ranging from resource scarcity is real enough to hurt the economy (but not that real) right up to we have infinite resources.
While I don't think anyone changed views in that session, it did force contrasting participants to consider solving the problem using the other perspective. For me, this meant taking on the exciting viewpoint of limitless resources: we should double down on extraction technology, invest in new wells, fracking, and mining, with an end goal of bringing health, wealth, and conspicuous consumption to the planet.
Fortunately for my antipodes this meant trying on my radical views: we need to extract no more than the carrying capacity of the earth (its solar flux, plus material reserves), invest in efficiency (not more generation), value happiness enabled through personal connections and experiences, not purchases, and still hold a goal of bringing health and basic support to the entire planet.
The result is that everyone leaving the room had a bigger toolkit of ideas that they could use in their day to day ideas, that based on personal preconceptions, might never appear, but can still be applied, regardless of ideology (or if you prefer, cold hard facts), as tactics in our day to day lives. 
So? How does Davos rank on fostering innovation and creativity?
Well, like much of the forum, mixed. There are brilliant approaches sprinkled through-out conventional sessions which lean, in fact lounge, in blandness. The best I experienced, of any conference, was actually introduced by Hilde Schwab, and featured a moderator who played jazz piano for the group in order to explain how creative flow interacts with learned knowledge. Spectacular. 
Down the hall a parallel session explored quantitative easing in the Euro zone, I suspect they brainstormed that one last year. #OnlyinDavos.
When I sent the video to Andrew Hargadon, he sent this initial reaction, which I then forwarded to Bayer: 
This is a very cool startup. And by the looks of it, they're in their fifth year, which is a good sign. It's a terrific concept, at least to me, who knows little about the science or product specs. 
My biggest question for these kinds of startups: do they have actual orders from customers or are they living on research & development grants? I would be much re-assured if they have real and ongoing orders. I know first hand that students-cum-sustainability-entrepreneurs make great poster children but not necessarily long-run successes. And that's even when the science works. 
As for RPIs Inventor's Studio - I love the bold challenge that they made to their students. This particular type of studio/class is diffusing rapidly across universities (or emerging simultaneously). The rise of the "geek gods" seems to be fueling America's recent embrace of the entrepreneur as bringer of jobs and green salvation. I'm involved with a number of similar programs both here at Davis and at Stanford, Berkeley, Colorado State, and MIT. These are each great programs - as are many more I haven't mentioned. And they are adding a missing and much needed dimension to engineering and science education - training engineers and scientists to identify their own problems, rather than take those as given. I would also say that while each program's unique and different, they are likely all sufficient to get their students moving down the right road.
You can be sure I will be showing my students this video. As a note, here's a one-minute video of a similar company - MicroMidas - that came out of Davis:
Here's Bayer's reply: 
Good comments! I have met many teams that follow the model of business plans or grants without a real commercialization plan. Burt (from inventors studio) pressed this early on, and has always advocated speaking to the customer early and often, and asking for an order, even if you don't have the product ready or right!
Good news for us is that this year more than half of our revenue will be from non-government customers. Almost all of these are reoccurring (though that's sort of the nature of the custom packaging business).
I also met the MicroMidas team a few years ago. They had raised quite a bit of cash fast. I'd be happy to hear what they are up to now!
[3:40 p.m. | Updated Hargadon sent a fascinating followup aboutthe two different types of networks needed for success in startups.]

        
Fostering Education for Innovation (and Vice Versa)
        
Student Innovators Featured During State of the Union Speech
        
While Gulf Soils, Energy Quest Stalls
        
Innovative Countries, Energized Campuses
        
Obama Pushes for Investing in Young, Inquiring Minds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); WIND ENERGY (75%); PATENTS (73%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (73%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (68%); TURBINE MFG (68%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (63%) davos; Education; generation e; innovation; networks; technology; Creativity; Earth; Engineering and Engineers; Environment; Inventions and Patents; Mushrooms; Sustainable Living; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; Davos (Switzerland); business; Design; Economics; engineering

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%) Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%) Davos (Switzerland)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



597 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Shares of Michael Kors as Hot as Its Wares

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The fashion company is trading at more than twice its initial public offering price of just two months ago, including a gain of as much as 26 percent on Tuesday after it reported its earnings. 

 BODY:
Most of the Wall Street chatter surrounding initial public offerings revolves around the trendy Internet companies like Zynga and Groupon that recently listed their shares. 
But those I.P.O.'s look downright unfashionable compared with Michael Kors Holdings, the fashion company named after its celebrity designer. 
Michael Kors's shares spiked as much as 26 percent on Tuesday after releasing its first earnings report as a publicly traded company. It priced its I.P.O. two months ago at $20 a share; on Tuesday afternoon, the stock was trading as high as $42. The company has a market value of about $8 billion. 
Despite the wobbly economy, luxury brands continue to perform well. Both Ralph Lauren and Coach have announced strong earnings in recent weeks.
With a more than 100 percent gain -- or a double, in Wall Street parlance -- Michael Kors is second-most successful debut of last year's 125 I.P.O.s, behind the technology company InvenSense. Both Zynga and Groupon are trading below their I.P.O. price. (LinkedIn, the professional-networking Web site, has been the most successful of the Internet I.P.O.'s, up about 95 percent since it began trading.) 
"Michael Kors has strong and expanding global recognition as a brand that embodies the jet-set lifestyle that consumers aspire to," John Idol, its chief executive, said on a conference call. "We believe that we are well positioned to continue to build our global luxury lifestyle brand, and that we have a tremendous opportunity for growth." 
The company's rapid growth was reflected in Tuesday's third-quarter earnings results. Revenue increased about 68 percent from a year earlier to $374 million. Its gross profit jumped about 75 percent to $220 million. The company also opened 28 new retail stores during the quarter; as of year-end 2011, it has 231 stores worldwide. 
The designer Michael Kors, who grew up on Long Island, started his brand in 1981 as a high-end luxury collection, competing with couture brands like Chanel and Gucci. Beginning in 2004, the company started Michael, an "accessible luxury" segment that now fuels much of its growth and accounts for about 90 percent of its revenue. During meetings with investors to market the company's I.P.O., Mr. Idol, the chief executive, referred to the brand as "Hermes for Staten Island." 
Mr. Kors, 52, is the public face of the company, with a regular appearances on the reality-TV show "Project Runway." The I.P.O. has made him a very rich man. He sold about $120 million worth of stock in the I.P.O. and maintains a roughly 9 percent stake in the company that, at Wednesday's share price, is worth about $700 million. 
Michael Kors's earnings results well exceeded the estimate of Wall Street analysts, who have been largely breathless in their praise of the company. All of the large banks starting coverage of Michael Kors late last month issued either "buy" or "overweight" ratings on the stock. "Get aboard this jet-set growth story," a Jeffries analyst said. And J.P. Morgan said the company had a "long 'runway' for growth." 
On Tuesday, Nomura's analyst called the quarter a "blowout" and stretched to find anything negative. 
"Jewelry category was so strong that they ran out of product during holiday," wrote Paul Lejuez, the Nomura analyst. "O.K., maybe that really isn't a negative (we needed something)."
The company's valuation is rich. At $42 a share, Michael Kors has already surpassed the price targets of most Wall Street banks, which were generally in the low 30s. And the company now trades at a steep valuation of about 55 times its 2012 earnings estimate, more than double the average valuation of other global luxury brands.
It is a busy couple of days for Mr. Kors. On Wednesday, he unveils his fall 2012 collection at New York Fashion Week.

        
Facebook Aside, Market for I.P.O.'s Stays Cool
        
A $100 Billion Value for Facebook? That May Be Possible

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BRANDING (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RETAILERS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Initial Public Offerings; michael kors; Michael Kors Holdings; Kors, Michael; Company Reports; Michael Kors Holdings Ltd; I.P.O./Offerings; Retail/Leisure

COMPANY: MICHAEL KORS HOLDINGS LTD (58%); GROUPON INC (58%); INVENSENSE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Michael Kors Holdings Ltd

TICKER: KORS (NYSE) (58%); GRPN (NASDAQ) (58%); INVN (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (58%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (57%) Kors, Michael

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



598 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Funds Switch Positions, While Paulson Switches Investing Style

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: After shedding shares in banks and financial firms, John Paulson is now building a stake in Hartford Financial and calling for a breakup of the insurance company. 

 BODY:
It's that time of the year when managers of hedge funds big and small disclose what stocks they own. While the quarterly data look backward --- the filings made Tuesday are for holdings through year-end -- they offer avid watchers a sense of what the most prominent investors are doing in the industry.
Lone Pine Capital, a highly respected hedge fund run by Stephen F. Mandel Jr., bought up a big chunk of the SPDR gold exchange, worth about $570 million. Gold has been a favorite among hedge fund managers, especially among those with dour views on the United States economy. 
Mr. Mandel also took positions in Baidu, the Chinese Internet search engine, worth about $280 million, and a more than $200 million position in the yoga-wear company Lululemon. He increased his stakes in Priceline.com, Google and Visa. Mr, Mandel sold off about 24 million shares of the News Corporation, or about $376 million worth.
At Appaloosa Management, the hedge fund's founder, David Tepper, took on small, new positions in Boston Scientific and Oracle, while adding to his holdings of the hedge fund (and consumer) favorite Apple as well as General Motors. Mr. Tepper sold stakes in US Airways, Valero Energy and Macy's.
David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital, meanwhile, bought 14 million shares of Dell worth about $200 million in the last quarter of the year, while also picking up about 17 million shares in Xerox (worth $134 million). No surprise that the manager increased his stakes in Apple and G.M. (just as Mr. Tepper did). Mr. Einhorn now has a roughly $600 million position in Apple, and a nearly $400 million position in G.M.
John Paulson, the founder of the hedge fund Paulson & Company, spent the last quarter of the year shedding shares in banks and financial firms that had become something of an albatross for him. He sold about $643 million worth of Citigroup shares and almost $400 million in Bank of America shares. He also reduced his holdings in Wells Fargo, Capital One and Suntrust Banks. Mr. Paulson suffered the worst year of his investing career in 2011, when one of his main funds lost more than 50 percent on ill-timed bets and other investing catastrophes.
As he looks to reclaim those huge losses, which could require gains of more than 100 percent in some funds, he took on a few new positions while raising his stake in others. Mr. Paulson now owns about $1.1 billion worth of Delphi Automotive, the once-bankrupt car-parts manufacturer. He also owns about $100 million worth of the energy company El Paso Corporation.
But what Mr. Paulson really seems to be interested in these days is jostling the Hartford Financial insurance company, whose share price has plummeted about 30 percent over the last year. The investor took the company to task for its lagging performance during its fourth-quarter earnings call last week, and is circulating presentations about how a breakup of the company could increase the share price by as much as 60 percent. 
The hedge fund is taking its case to the market, significantly raising its stake (it now owns about 8.4 percent of outstanding shares, according to a regulatory filing Tuesday) while it campaigns to force the firm to separate its property and casualty insurance business from its life insurance business.
"Hartford trades at 44% of book value compared to 81% for life peers and 106% for P&C peers" reads a headline from a Feb. 14 presentation about the company.
The moves ring of activism, a strategy practiced by many a hedge fund manager, from the old school raider Carl C. Icahn to his figurative heir, William A. Ackman. But it is a new strategy for Mr. Paulson, who has largely stuck to merger arbitrage and is best known for his credit bet against the subprime mortgage market that earned him billions of dollars.
Why exactly Mr. Paulson has decided to add to his repertoire is unclear. But he seems familiar with the playbook. In his filing Tuesday, Paulson & Company indicated it would be potentially speaking with other investors about next steps for the company. 

        
As Mets Deal Collapses, Einhorn Fund Shows a Decline
        
Hedge Funds Disclose Positions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (60%); SEARCH ENGINES (54%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Appaloosa Partners; David Einhorn; David Tepper; Greenlight Capital; John A. Paulson; Lone Pine Capital; Paulson & Company; Steve Mandel; Einhorn, David; Paulson, John A; Tepper, David A; Company Reports; Hedge Funds; Appaloosa Management; Greenlight Capital Inc; Paulson & Co; Mandel, Stephen F. Jr.; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); EL PASO CORP (80%); NEWS CORP (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); LULULEMON ATHLETICA INC (56%); GOOGLE INC (56%); PRICELINE.COM INC (56%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (55%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); CITIGROUP INC (53%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (52%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Appaloosa Management; Greenlight Capital Inc; Paulson & Co

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (82%); NWS (NASDAQ) (69%); NWS (ASX) (69%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); LULU (NASDAQ) (56%); LLL (TSX) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); PCLN (NASDAQ) (56%); BSX (NYSE) (55%); VLO (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%); STI (NYSE) (52%); DLPH (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (80%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (80%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (56%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (56%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (55%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (55%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: Einhorn, David; Paulson, John A; Tepper, David A

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



599 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: SpringCoin Aims to Be a Mint.com for the Indebted

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: SpringCoin offers online budgeting tools for people struggling with debts. Will its monthly fee be worth it? 

 BODY:
A new service, SpringCoin.com, is offering online budget management with a twist: It's aimed at consumers who are struggling with debt.
SpringCoin, says the co-founder and chief executive officer,John Sun, is a sort of "subprime" version of budget sites like Mint.com (The site's logo even uses a leaf, reminiscent of Mint's three-sprig logo). If you simply want a place to view all of your accounts online, he said, then a straight budgeting site may be your best choice. But if you are having trouble managing your debt and want help getting out of it, he said, then SpringCoin may be an option for you.
SpringCoin, based in San Francisco, is backed by Y Combinator, which provides seed capital for start ups. The Web site went live this month, so it doesn't have a track record (an earlier, beta version was called DebtEye). But Mr. Sun, a certified credit-counselor with a background in software analytics, said he sees an opportunity to use sophisticated software tools to help consumers manage their debt.
SpringCoin does this, he said, by comparing a client's debts and spending patterns, then recommending a manageable monthly payment to erase the debt. To do this, the program requests access to your actual financial information. You register on the Web site, and give it permission to access your credit information from TransUnion, one of the three major credit-reporting bureaus. Mr. Sun says the information isn't a comprehensive credit report, and accessing it doesn't affect your credit score.
Next, you give SpringCoin access to your bank account information on a "read-only" basis. Mr. Sun said the system uses the same encryption technology used by banks, but you can enter your financial information manually if you prefer.
Once SpringCoin's software compares your debts with your income and spending patterns, it spits out recommended monthly payments to pay down your debt.
Depending on the specifics of your situation -- if, say, you've recently had a drop in income -- it may also suggest trying to negotiate better deals with your creditors and offer form letters to fill out. (Many lenders, Mr. Sun said, offer "hardship" programs for people who are current on their payments but who are struggling because they have lost a job or gone through divorce. The programs may offer reduced interest rates or payments for a specified period of time - typically, six to 18 months -- while the consumer gets back on his or her feet.)
SpringCoin offers bill reminders, to help users avoid late fees, and also adds a financial education component, offering weekly quizzes for users to build their financial knowledge. Users earn points by taking the quiz, or by taking other steps - like making an extra payment on a debt - and may redeem them for the chance to win rewards, like gift cards.
In some cases, Mr. Sun said, SpringCoin might recommend that the user speak with a traditional debt-counseling agency, which may be able to negotiate a longer-term debt-management plan to pay down the debt over time, at a reduced interest rate; such plans usually come with a monthly fee, which varies depending on whether the agency is a for-profit or non-profit firm. SpringCoin doesn't collect fees for such referrals, he said.
Mr. Sun said SpringCoin chose to charge a user fee, rather than to seek advertising; the cost for the basic service is $8 a month. The company also offers a premium version for $35 a month, which offers extras like live financial advice, a bill-payment service, and more debt-negotiation tips. You can use the service, for instance, to send a lump-sum payment to SpringCoin, which will distribute it to your creditors per your recommended debt plan.
SpringCoin seems to be a bit ahead of itself, however, in offering the premium upgrade. Currently, the costlier service is available on a "fairly limited" basis, Mr. Sun said in an e-mail, while SpringCoin works on making the offering more robust, by trying to negotiate agreements with creditors to offer SpringCoin users lower interest rates on payment plans than they would otherwise be able to get. For now, many customers who try to sign up for the pricier option will get this message: "You can't select the premium plan because you won't save enough money with it to justify you spending $35/month." (Those who are confused are directed to contact customer support.)
Mr. Sun said he expects more customers to benefit from the premium option as the company signs up creditors to participate. "We envision a tool that's well worth the price," he said.
SpringCoin also is negotiating with credit unions and community banks to offer SpringCoin's service to account holders, he said.
Do you think SpringCoin's services are (or will soon be) worth a monthly fee?

        
Don't Call Them Payday Loans, but Watch the Fees
        
More Middle-Income Borrowers Seek Debt Help
        
A 'Matchmaker' for Drivers and Parking Spaces
        
Those Incredible Shrinking Savings Account Rates
        
The Approved Card: Uses for Suze Orman's Plastic

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); WEB SITES (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Budgeting

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



600 of 1200 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: What Charles Murray Gets Right

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: The many virtues of an imperfect book. 

 BODY:
Alert readers of my Sunday column will note some overlap between my exasperation at the lack of plausible policy proposals in Charles Murray's "Coming Apart" and David Frum's extended, withering takedown of the entire book. The difference between us, I think, is that Frum allows his irritation with about 15 percent of Murray's argument to blind him to the virtues of the other 85 percent. With an eye toward the criticisms I've read from Frum and others, then, here are three big things that "Coming Apart" gets right.
First, "Coming Apart" is one of the strongest and most lucid explorations of the existing data on the long-simmering social crisis in working-class life, and the extent to which American society's recovery from the dislocations of the 1960s and 1970s has been a recovery primarily for the upper middle class. Other writers have covered this territory - the Manhattan Institute's Kay Hymowitz in "Marriage and Caste in America," the University of Virginia's Brad Wilcox in "When Marriage Disappears," and even Reihan Salam and myself, to some extent, in our 2008 book on domestic policy. But Murray offers a wider-ranging synthesis than I've seen in print to date, weaving everything from family stability to workforce participation to incarceration rates to self-reported happiness into a portrait of downscale deterioration and decline that should make liberals and conservatives sit up and pay attention. (Indeed, even Murray's most strident left-wing critics should welcome the purely descriptive portions of his book: If economics really trumps culture as completely as many of his critics to think, and some combination of the top 1 percent's greed and the Republican Party's free market fanaticism are really responsible for the ills afflicting downscale America, then large portions of "Coming Apart" could be repurposed as part of the left-wing indictment of what the plutocracy hath wrought.)
Second, "Coming Apart" offers a convincing account of how meritocracy has exacerbated the problems that Murray describes - encouraging the best and brightest to work and live and (especially) mate within the cocoons of what he calls the SuperZIPS, segregating Americans by intelligence to an unprecedented degree, and creating a self-reinforcing pattern in to those with much social capital, much more is given, while to those without, even what they have is taken away. Again, he's drawing on other authors and other works - Bill Bishop in "The Big Sort," Richard Florida (by implication) in his various paeans to the so-called "creative class" and the "creative cities" they call home. But Murray has been thinking and writing about these issues for a long time, and it shows. I've rarely read a better distillation of the case for meritocracy's in-egalitarian, anti-communitarian, and even anti-democratic tendencies, and what the cultivation of a meritocratic elite can mean for the people left behind.
Finally, Murray makes a very convincing case - one that I don't think his more deterministic critics, Frum included, have done enough to reckon with - for the power of so-called "traditional values" to foster human flourishing even in economic landscapes that aren't as favorable to less-educated workers as was, say, the aftermath of the Treaty of Detroit. Even acknowledging all the challenges (globalization, the decline of manufacturing, mass low-skilled immigration) that have beset blue collar America over the last thirty years, it is still the case that if you marry the mother or father of your children, take work when you can find it and take pride in what you do, attend church and participate as much as possible in the life of your community, and strive to conduct yourself with honesty and integrity, you are very likely to not only escape material poverty, but more importantly to find happiness in life. This case for the persistent advantages of private virtue does not disprove more purely economic analyses of what's gone wrong in American life, but it should at the very least complicate them, and suggest a different starting place for discussions of the common good than the ground that most liberals prefer to occupy. This is where "Coming Apart" proves its worth: Even for the many readers who will raise an eyebrow (or two) at Murray's stringently libertarian prescriptions, the story he tells should be a powerful reminder that societies flourish or fail not only in the debates over how to tax and spend and regulate, but in the harder-to-reach places where culture and economics meet.

        
The White Anxiety Debate, Continued
        
Religious Giving and Its Critics
        
Are Inequality and Immobility Inseparable?
        
Debating Taxes and the Family
        
A Response to Mara Hvistendahl (II)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); WRITERS (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); LABOR FORCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%) Charles Murray; Culture Wars; Domestic Policy; liberalism; meritocracy; Sex and Marriage; society; the elite; the working class

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012

 
