

1001 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: A Storied Paradise, Tempered by Reality

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- On a recent nothing-special weekday afternoon, I walked into the Asian Art Museum here and found a Balinese gamelan concert in progress: clanging gongs, pulsing drums, jazzy flutes, the whole real heavenly thing, with musicians settled cross-legged on a fabric-draped platform and a rapt crowd of museumgoers, many quite young, on benches, folding chairs and the floor.
Events like this one -- free, at odd hours, with an improvisational feel -- have been popping up regularly at the museum during the tenure of its present director, Jay Xu, who arrived in 2008 and has managed to keep the place on track during a recent financial crisis.
Several years ago the museum borrowed a big chunk of money to renovate its premises in a repurposed downtown library. But in the post-2008 economy its loan payments became impossible to meet, and rumors of possible bankruptcy circulated. The city stepped in to help. Catastrophe was averted. The doors have stayed open. And a week or so ago that amazing music -- like the sound of a thousand clocks chiming -- filled the air. 
The concert was inspired by ''Bali: Art, Ritual, Performance,'' the museum's vivid current special exhibition, which is as stimulating to look at as it is to think about. Among others things, it offers a plausible model for how to do a historical loan show that a) uses unfamiliar and affordable materials (many of the objects are from Dutch ethnographic museums); b) finesses the vexed issue of authenticity by seamlessly linking a high-art past with the tourist-art present; and c) gives us exoticism but tempers it with realism.
Bali itself strikes a similar balance. Despite its paradisiacal reputation, it's a modest place: just one small island, less than 100 miles across, among the hundreds of islands that make up the Indonesian archipelago. Yet it packs within its narrow bounds a deep, dramatic history.
The island's volcanic soil is ideal for certain kinds of farming. Rice grown in terraced, semiaquatic paddies is the staple crop, and indigenous religious beliefs seem always to have centered on water and vegetation. Designs suggesting eddying waves or interlocked spores cover a bronze drum top from the first or second century A.D. And rice-goddess images woven from palm leaves are still kept in shrines in agricultural villages. The show has three examples of these made between 1920 and 1950: doll-like but regal figures with boxy shoulders, pinched waists and Turandot headgear.
Other belief systems have been gradually layered over, or spliced into, nature worship. Reverence for deified ancestors is common, as is devotion to a pantheon of divinities derived from South Asian Hinduism, a religion once pervasive in Indonesia but found there now only in Bali.
This interweaving of spiritual commitments has produced a fabric of ritual practices so enveloping and intricate as to give religious gloss to practically everything on view, from rice paddles to dance masks to gold containers for betel leaf, a mild stimulant chewed like tobacco that is regularly offered to party guests and gods alike. By now we're accustomed to the notion, or should be, that art created for ritual use, as much Balinese art is, loses a vital part of its meaning in an institutional setting. The organizer of the show, Natasha Reichle, the museum's associate curator of Southeast Asian art, acknowledges the problem posed by context, and addresses it reasonably, through wall labels, field photographs and documentary videos.
This is all good, though at least a few items seem not to need supplementary assistance. They would give off sparks no matter where they were. One small 19th-century ivory sculpture of a crouching winged lion, from a temple offering box, is a nugget of pure, coiled energy, pulling and holding the eye like a magnet.
Certain carved-wood and painted temple images operate on a reverse, repulsive dynamic. They seem to do what they can to scare us away. That is what's happening in a depiction of the demon Ravana, arch-villain of the ''Ramayana,'' who sits, snarling and bloody-mouthed, on the back of an equally rabid-looking bird.
And who would want to get anywhere near the female deity Rangda, with her golf-ball eyes, monster fangs and limbs splayed in a lewd dance? A wall label explains that she is sometimes taken to be a witch, sometimes an incarnation of the Hindu goddess Durga. But one glance tells you what you really need to know: you're in the dangerous presence of a life-and-death force on the loose.
Death and the dead play a central, complicated role in Balinese life. Extravagant material and emotional resources are invested in the welfare and appeasement of fretful ancestors. No assembly of static objects can really capture this performance-based dynamic, but exhibition videos can and do, recording mortuary ceremonies that stretch over months, even years, and that entail the burial, exhumation and burning of corpses, accompanied by processions and feasts.
Yet grand funerals are not the norm: they cost a fortune and are the privilege of the royal or rich. In a similar way, much of the art in the show reflects the elite taste of a hierarchical society based on the Indian-derived four-caste system, with the top three castes controlling most of the wealth, and the bottom caste, representing the bulk of the population, doing the basic, economy-sustaining work: farming until a few decades ago, now the tourist industry.
To its credit, the show notes these social realities. The catalog in particular reminds us that at least some of what we're looking at -- gem-studded earrings, say, or a silk wrap ornamented with gold-leaf flowers -- was geared to a very specific clientele, namely the rulers who competitively staked out kingdoms in different parts of the island.
The exhibition's concluding section also addresses the impact of European colonialism on Balinese life and culture. Although most of Indonesia was under Dutch control throughout the 19th century, Bali was only fully subjugated in the early 20th, when the Dutch felt the need to consolidate their grip on the entire archipelago.
To this end, between roughly 1900 and 1910, Dutch troops invaded the island repeatedly, attacking its kingdoms, one by one. In at least two battles, one in 1906 and the other two years later, Balinese royalty, knowing they faced defeat, walked suicidally straight into European gunfire.
The early 20th century became a nadir in Bali's fortunes: poverty and disease were rife. Defensively, the Dutch claimed to have rid the island of despotic kings and pointed to a once-flourishing local slave trade as evidence of native barbarism.
Simultaneously, the colonial government began to promote the image of Bali as a tropical Eden, where traditional arts were still produced by a picturesque population that was otherwise content to pass its time harvesting rice in prettily terraced fields.
To this day tourist hotels are built so as to take in views of such fields, ignoring the reality that rice farming is backbreaking labor. And although much of Bali's traditional culture is still alive, essential features have changed, including the idea that art, as a category, is defined by spiritual utility. Many pieces in the show from the first half of the 20th century were made expressly as tourist souvenirs.
To stretch the story of Bali into the 21st century would have entailed investigating not only the steady incursion of global culture onto the island, but also the devastating effects of religious politics when, in 2002 and again in 2005, militant Islamist groups attacked Balinese resort towns.
The exhibition doesn't go there, though it still goes further than many do in balancing romance and reality in an account of a culture and its art. If one result is to undercut treasured illusions about a paradise past, another is to keep past glories alive in the present, like the unearthly sound of Balinese chimes shimmering through an ordinary urban afternoon.
''Bali: Art, Ritual, Performance'' remains through Sept. 11 at the Asian Art Museum, 200 Larkin Street, San Francisco; (415) 581-3500, asianart.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bali: Art, Ritual, Performance: Left, the rice goddess Dewi Sri, made of palm leaves during the early to mid 20th century, and below, the deity Rangda, carved in the 19th century, are in this show at the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP, TROPENMUSEUM, AMSTERDAM, VIA ASIAN ART MUSEUM
ABOVE ASIAN ART MUSEUM) (C1)
Above, an ivory winged lion from a 19thcentury offering box. Below, a carved mask is among the objects in the ''Bali'' show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP, RIJKSMUSEUM, AMSTERDAM
 ABOVE, JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); RELIGION (87%); ISLANDS & REEFS (85%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); LIBRARIES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); RICE FARMING (65%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (92%); INDONESIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1002 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 916 words

PERSON: Abdias do Nascimento 

HEADLINE: Abdias do Nascimento, 97, Rights Voice

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Abdias do Nascimento, a Brazilian writer, painter, politician and scholar who was an outspoken civil rights leader on behalf of black Brazilians, has died in Rio de Janeiro. He was 97.
Sources differ on the date of death, saying it was either May 23 or 24. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Anani Dzidzienyo, a friend who as a professor of Brazilian studies at Brown University has written about Mr. Nascimento.
For decades Mr. Nascimento was a dissident voice in a Brazilian society that for most of the 20th century was identified by its government and perceived by much of its population as a racial democracy. Mr. Nascimento maintained, in both his art and his political rhetoric, that Brazil remained, in fact, a racist society. 
Significantly more black Africans were sent to Brazil than to the United States in the slave trade, and Brazil did not abolish slavery until 1888. Only in the last decade, as affirmative action programs have taken root at many Brazilian universities and in some government agencies, has racism been publicly acknowledged as a problem in Brazil.
''He was a legend,'' Edward E. Telles, a professor of sociology at Princeton and the author of ''Race in Another America: The Significance of Skin Color in Brazil,'' said of Mr. Nascimento in a telephone interview. ''From the 1930s through the 1990s, Brazil was considered a racial democracy, but nobody talked about race, and there was a clear racial hierarchy. Poor people were predominantly black, and the elites were almost all white. He wasn't afraid to tell people that racial democracy was a myth. And he said it for 60 years.''
In 1944 Mr. Nascimento founded the Black Experimental Theater in Rio de Janeiro, a troupe that celebrated Brazil's African-influenced culture. It trained black citizens as actors in defiance of the custom of casting white actors in blackface.
As an actor, he performed in ''Orfeu da Conceicao,'' the play by Vinicius de Moraes that became the basis of the 1959 film ''Black Orpheus,'' directed by Marcel Camus. The troupe also sponsored civil rights events, including the first Congress of Brazilian Blacks, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1950.
In 1945, Mr. Nascimento helped found the Afro-Brazilian Democratic Committee to fight for the release of political prisoners. After a military coup d'etat in 1964, he lived in self-imposed exile in the United States and Nigeria until the early 1980s. While in exile he began painting strikingly colorful works featuring human and natural images in juxtaposition with geometric shapes, suggestive of Afro-Brazilian cultural and religious themes. His work has been exhibited in the United States, Brazil and elsewhere.
In the late 1970s, as the military continued to hold power (and would until 1985), Mr. Nascimento, still in exile, helped found the Democratic Labor Party of Brazil, seeing to it that the issue of racial discrimination was a part of its platform. He served in the Brazilian Legislature as a congressman and senator. He also helped found the Afro-Brazilian Studies and Research Institute, known as Ipeafro, in Rio de Janeiro.
''There was no more important Brazilian than Nascimento since the abolition of slavery in 1888,'' said Ollie A. Johnson, a professor of Africana Studies at Wayne State University in Detroit and the author of ''Brazilian Party Politics and the Coup of 1964.'' ''No other Brazilian fought harder and longer against white supremacy and racism in Brazil in the post-slavery era. For Americans to understand him and his contribution, you'd have to say he was a little bit of Marcus Garvey, a little of W. E. B. DuBois, a little bit of Langston Hughes and a little bit of Adam Clayton Powell.''
Mr. Nascimento was born in March 1914 in Franca, in the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo. His father was a cobbler; his mother made candies and sold them on the street. His grandparents had been slaves.
''He grew up around people who experienced the last days of slavery,'' Mr. Dzidzienyo said, adding that keeping that experience alive through the 20th century ''was one of his most important contributions.''
Mr. Nascimento studied accounting and earned a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Rio de Janeiro. He joined the Brazilian civil rights movement, known as the Brazilian Black Front, as a teenager.
During his exile, he taught at the State University of New York at Buffalo, where he founded the chair of African cultures in the university's Puerto Rican studies program. He also lectured at Yale and Wesleyan.
His survivors include his third wife, Elisa Larkin Nascimento, who is the current director of Ipeafro; three sons, Henrique Christophe, Bida and Osiris; and a daughter, Yemanja.
An activist until virtually the end of his days, Mr. Nascimento gave his final interview to the American scholar Henry Louis Gates Jr. for a PBS series, ''Black in Latin America,'' which was broadcast this spring.
''Has Brazil ever truly had a racial democracy?'' Mr. Gates asked.
''The black people feel in their flesh the lie which is racial democracy in this country,'' Mr. Nascimento said. ''You just have to look at a black family. Where do they live? The black children, how are they educated? You'll see that it's all a lie. You must understand that I'm saying this with profound hatred, profound bitterness at the way black people are treated in Brazil.''
Mr. Gates asked if, nonetheless, there was reason for optimism.
''If I weren't an optimist I would have hanged myself,'' Mr. Nascimento said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abdias do Nascimento, an artist and academic, in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (86%); SLAVERY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); COUPS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%); DIABETES (57%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (54%); THEATER (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1003 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Anger Over Protesters' Deaths Leads to Intensified Demonstrations by Mongolians

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Shi Da contributed research.

 BODY:
HOHHOT, China -- Ethnic Mongolians seething over the killings of two Mongolians by Han Chinese drivers took their anger to the streets of this capital of Inner Mongolia on Monday in a rare expression of antigovernment sentiment here.
The protests, which drew more than 100 people to the center of Hohhot and led to a series of detentions, followed a week of similar demonstrations across this vast borderland that have rattled the authorities.
The rally took place on the day that Chinese officials announced they would file murder charges against a forklift driver accused of striking and killing Yan Wenlong, who was among 20 people protesting a coal mine near Xilinhot on May 15. 
The deaths of Mr. Yan and of another activist killed by a truck driver five days earlier have galvanized anger over the destruction of the Mongolian grasslands and stoked long-simmering resentment over Beijing's governance of this resource-rich region.
On Sunday, the state-run news media reported that Inner Mongolia's Communist Party secretary, Hu Chunhua, had met with students and teachers and promised justice in the killing of the other activist, named Mergen, a herder whose body was reported to have been dragged nearly 500 feet. Two Han Chinese have been arrested in connection with the death.
Until now, the authorities have met the protests with a heavy-handed police response and highly publicized efforts to appease ethnic Mongolians, who make up less than 20 percent of the region's population of 24 million and have long complained that migration of Han Chinese is diluting their language and culture.
The acknowledgment of the anger, coupled with the large deployment of soldiers and police officers, suggested that the authorities were intent on avoiding the ethnic mayhem that struck other areas of China where indigenous groups, notably Tibetans in Tibet and Uighurs in Xinjiang, have bridled under the influx of Han Chinese, the country's dominant ethnic group.
Until now, protests among Mongolians have been unusual.
In addition to promising to punish those responsible for the deaths of antimining activists, officials in recent days have announced plans for free tuition and textbooks for Mongolian high school and vocational students and $680 million in spending to improve drinking water, transportation and agriculture.
Enghebatu Togochog, president of the Southern Mongolian Human Rights Information Center, an exile group based in New York, said government largess would not necessarily address the underlying grievances of the region's Mongolians and might exacerbate them if development projects sought to move shepherds off the grasslands.
''The root cause of the problem is not money,'' Mr. Togochog said. ''The problem is the conflict between the Mongolian people's efforts to maintain their distinct culture and way of life and the Chinese authorities' attempts to exploit the natural resources of the region.''
Occupying 12 percent of China's land, the Inner Mongolian Autonomous Region has become an increasingly vital source of the coal, natural gas and rare earth elements that help fuel the Chinese economy. Critics complain that in addition to environmental degradation and forced relocations, mining provides few tangible benefits to ethnic Mongolians.
Last month, herders in the Xilin Gol area stepped up their campaign against coal-mining vehicles that zigzag across the steppe, chewing up the fragile pastureland and occasionally running down livestock. Mergen, the organizer of a local group of shepherds who was killed three weeks ago, was among a group of 40 men who sought to block a caravan of coal-laden trucks with their bodies, according to the Southern Mongolian Human Rights Information Center. Like many Mongolians, Mergen used a single name.
Word of his death has set off recurring protests in a number of cities, including one on May 25 in Xilinhot, a county-level city midway between Hohhot and Beijing, that was reported to have drawn nearly 2,000 people. Last Friday, Amnesty International's Asia Pacific deputy director, Catherine Baber, said martial law had been declared in some areas.
The protests in Hohhot took place under enormous security, with hundreds of soldiers and police officers patrolling parks and keeping thousands of students locked up on college campuses.
''We feel like animals that have been caged up,'' said one student, Xiao Ming, 20. ''This is about defending our culture and defending our dignity.''
Despite the heavy police presence and the severing of Internet and cellphone service in parts of the city, hundreds of Mongolians gathered near Xinhua Square, in the city center of Hohhot, on Monday morning. After a standoff against a phalanx of police officers, a few dozen men and women began shouting slogans in Mongolian on a traffic island and then tentatively marched down Xilin Gol Nanlu, one of the city's main commercial arteries.
A placard that said ''Protect the Grasslands'' was held aloft, and as many as 150 people joined the throng. At one point, protesters and the police faced off against one another, with men in army fatigues shouting ''Maintain social stability!'' through bullhorns and protesters chanting, ''Let them go,'' a reference to those previously detained by the authorities.
The rally lasted more than an hour before riot police officers began dragging away demonstrators and the crowd melted away.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a region where protest is rare, more than 100 people on Monday took to the streets of Hohhot, the Inner Mongolian capital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIM CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMICIDE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); MURDER (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); TUITION FEES (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); ARRESTS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); TEXTBOOKS (67%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (67%); ARMED FORCES (63%)

COMPANY: THE INNER MONGOLIA TIME TECHNOLOGIES CO LTD (92%)

TICKER: 000611 (SZSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (92%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (93%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); MONGOLIA (94%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1004 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Sudan's Peaceful Partition, at Risk

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS H. JOHNSON. 
Douglas H. Johnson is the author of ''The Root Causes of Sudan's Civil Wars.''

 BODY:
Oxford, England
SUDAN, for now the vastest country in Africa, is once again on the verge of civil war. A 2005 peace agreement, brokered with American assistance, was supposed to resolve the issues that led to 22 years of fighting between the Arab-dominated North and secessionists in the South. But it has not.
In a January referendum, the South Sudanese overwhelmingly voted for independence. But the North's occupation of the contested border region of Abyei this month could reignite the conflict between North and South -- unless foreign powers, especially China, use their leverage to stop it. 
The international community -- particularly the United Nations and the United States -- have been spectacularly ineffective in getting the Sudanese government to honor its own agreements. United Nations peacekeeping forces in Abyei have failed to protect civilians from attacks and keep the two sides apart. After 2005, the Bush administration concentrated mostly on the western region of Darfur and ignored the South. The Obama administration refocused its attention on the North-South conflict, but put all its energy into the independence referendum, at the expense of Abyei.
Abyei's fertile grazing lands are used by both the Ngok Dinka people, the area's permanent residents, and Misseriya Arabs, seasonal migrants from the North. A referendum held simultaneously with South Sudan's independence vote was supposed to resolve the status of Abyei. But Sudan's president, Omar al-Bashir, has obstructed a resolution: first by refusing to accept the borders recommended by the Abyei Boundaries Commission, on which I served; then by blocking the enforcement of a ruling issued by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague; and finally by preventing the Abyei referendum.
Mr. Bashir believes that transferring Abyei to the South would set a dangerous precedent for other disaffected areas, including Darfur, that are already seeking greater autonomy from Khartoum. American officials have unwittingly encouraged the Bashir regime to take a hard line by supporting successive compromise proposals rather than insisting that Khartoum adhere to the peace agreement and abide by the court ruling. Confident that it would face no concerted opposition, the North has now made the final, violent, push.
The Abyei occupation comes in the wake of Khartoum's military build-up elsewhere along the border, as well as its recent escalation of fighting in Darfur. There is a real risk that the North will now simply occupy all contested border areas -- and possibly the oil fields inside South Sudan -- and refuse to leave unless pushed out. In the short term, this will unite public opinion in the North behind Mr. Bashir at a time when many there are assailing him for losing the South. But in the long term it will likely spread instability and violence to other parts of Sudan.
To prevent the Abyei crisis from igniting other conflicts, the international community must stop pretending that both sides are equally at fault. Carrots haven't worked. Washington will need to wield sticks, such as canceling debt relief talks or suspending normalization of diplomatic relations, if Sudan does not withdraw its forces quickly. But ultimately, Washington has limited leverage over the Sudanese government, having reduced both its diplomatic and economic ties during the civil war.
The key player will be China. Beijing has considerable economic and political clout in Khartoum; at the same time, it is trying to build good relations with the Southern leadership in Juba. The occupation of Abyei is threatening Chinese oil operations along the border and inside South Sudan. The Chinese Foreign Ministry recently urged the two sides ''to adhere to peace and restrain themselves'' by fulfilling the provisions of the peace agreement.
This may sound like anodyne diplomatic jargon, but it is a sharp break from China's usual silence about the domestic behavior of the Sudanese regime, and a departure from the support it gave Sudan in 2008 after the International Criminal Court indicted Mr. Bashir on genocide charges. This presents a rare opportunity for the United States and China to work together in pushing for a resolution in Abyei before the South formally declares independence on July 9.
First, Washington and Beijing must insist that Khartoum withdraw its forces and restore Abyei's deposed civil administration. Second, they must stress that there will be no more compromises over agreements already reached. All Sudanese armed groups should leave Abyei and the surrounding territory, and be replaced by international troops with a more robust commitment to protect civilians.
A referendum is still the best way to confirm the will of Abyei's permanent residents, but a fair vote is impossible today, given Mr. Bashir's efforts to tip the region's demographic balance by driving out Ngok Dinka and replacing them with Northerners. The international community could and should oversee a future vote, but only after ensuring the return of Abyei's original inhabitants and guaranteeing the free and fair exercise of their democratic rights.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SUNGYOON CHOI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); LITIGATION (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: OMAR AL-BASHIR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (91%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1005 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
VIDEO OF TORTURED BOY
REVIVES PROTESTS IN SYRIA
Video of a boy's battered body has gone viral, casting into shocking relief the terrors wielded by the Syrian state against its people and injecting new life into the six-week old uprising. PAGE A10
U.S. MILITARY LEADER NAMED
In announcing that he would nominate Gen. Martin E. Dempsey to be chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, President Obama concluded a broad reshuffling of his national security team just as the administration is heading into a new debate over bringing American troops home from Afghanistan. PAGE A9
NEW STRATEGY FOR SUDAN 
Western diplomats and African leaders are pressing for a new strategy to defuse Sudan's bitterly contested Abyei area: bringing in Ethiopian peacekeepers as a buffer between opposing forces. PAGE A8
PROTESTS IN MONGOLIA
Ethnic Mongolians seething over the killings of two Mongolians by Han Chinese drivers took their anger to the streets of the capital of Inner Mongolia in a rare expression of antigovernment sentiment. PAGE A8
REPORT ON BANK REBUTTED
The governor of Afghanistan's Central Bank angrily responded to the criticism of his agency. A report from a panel appointed by President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan to assess responsibility for large-scale fraud at Kabul Bank had faulted the Central Bank for failing to uncover the deception sooner. PAGE A9
RUSSIAN INVESTIGATOR CLEARED
Russia's Investigative Committee said that prosecutors had cleared a police investigator of any wrongdoing in the case of Sergei L. Magnitsky, whose death in pre-trial detention is viewed as a test of country's law enforcement and judicial systems. PAGE A5
WARRANTS IN SALVADOR DEATHS
A Spanish judge issued arrest warrants for some of the top military leaders of El Salvador's civil war, accusing them of meticulously planning and carrying out the killings of six Jesuit priests in 1989. PAGE A4
YEMEN FIGHTS ON TWO FRONTS
The Yemeni government pounded a major coastal city with airstrikes to dislodge Islamic militants and, to the west, smashed the country's largest antigovernment demonstration in overnight clashes that killed at least 20 protesters, according to witnesses. PAGE A10
National
SURPRISE VICTORY IN N.Y.
GIVES DEMOCRATS HOPE
In the aftermath of a Democratic victory in a special House election in New York, which hinged on a Republican plan to reshape the health care program for older Americans, members of both parties and independent analysts now predict a more competitive race next year for control of the House. PAGE A12
A WIND-BASED WINDFALL
In Sherman County, Calif., a sparsely populated region south of the Columbia River Gorge, annual checks for $590 are local residents' share of a windfall brought by the growing wind energy industry. In an area otherwise dominated by wheat farms, hundreds of 300-foot wind turbines now generate electricity and cash. PAGE A16
AN ACTIVE RETIRED JUSTICE
Justice John Paul Stevens is 91, and he retired from the Supreme Court last year. But he is making speeches, writing a book and commenting on the news. He is telling people how he would have voted in recent cases, and he is singling out former colleagues for praise and criticism. Adam Liptak, Sidebar. PAGE A14
PALIN HINTS AT PLANS
Sarah Palin dropped a fresh hint about her presidential ambitions, telling reporters that her ''One Nation'' bus tour might ''at some point'' go to Iowa, where the 2012 voting begins. PAGE A14
PAYING FEE FOR SMOKING
As part of a plan to cut costs, Arizona has proposed imposing a $50 fee on childless adults on Medicaid who are either obese or who smoke. A spokeswoman for Arizona's Medicaid program discusses the proposal, which still must be approved by the federal government. PAGE A16
New York
AS REMAINS ARE IDENTIFIED,
PROSTITUTES' FEARS GROW
For prostitutes in the New York City area, the murders of four women have intensified the fear and distrust that is always attendant to their still-criminalized line of work. That uneasiness has only increased this month, as the authorities disclosed the identity of a fifth victim left along Ocean Parkway on Jones Beach Island, and revealed that, like the other four, she had been a prostitute. PAGE A21
MAP OF CENTRAL PARK'S TREES
Ken Chaya and Edward Sibley Barnard dedicated two and a half years to make a map that artfully and painstakingly details 19,933 trees in Central Park. Working independently from the city, they said they spent nearly $40,000 on the project because they cherish Central Park's trees and want others to as well. Page A17
Business
SOME SEE INFLATION THREAT
AS CHINA'S ECONOMY SLOWS
China's economy is starting to slow, after two years of torrid growth achieved following the global downturn. Some experts worry that inflation is already so entrenched that the government may be forced to continue braking the economy for a considerable time. PAGE B1
TOWN'S BOOMING DRUG TRADE
Barbate, Spain, is in a predicament: a fiscal crisis has sunk public finances, a dwindling fishing industry has exacerbated one of Spain's worst unemployment situations and the drug smuggling that has long plagued the area because of its proximity to North Africa has been revived. PAGE B1
SCRUTINY FOR WAL-MART
Wal-Mart is facing new pressure to monitor and disclose how its international suppliers treat their workers. At its annual shareholder meeting, the New York City pension funds, which own a small percentage of shares in Wal-Mart, plan to ask the company to require vendors to publish annual reports detailing working conditions in their factories. PAGE B3
Sports
SOCCER OFFICIAL EXPLAINS
CHOICE TO SPEAK OUT
Chuck Blazer, the American official who blew the whistle on the latest charges of corruption within FIFA, soccer's world governing body, said he had not seen concrete evidence of vote-buying in his two decades as a high-ranking executive in a regional soccer confederation. But when confronted this month with substantiation of bribery attempts to influence FIFA's coming election for president, he could not ignore it, he said. PAGE B9
Arts
LOOKING DOWN, 103 STORIES
ABOVE CHICAGO'S STREETS
The Ledge, the name given to the glass extensions to the Willis Tower in Chicago, allow visitors to step past the sheer edge of the building and look down beneath their feet from the 103rd floor to the street below. Edward Rothstein writes that any reassurance of standing so high up and looking down is undercut by the elimination of nearly all visible support, where visitors are surrounded by open air and unbounded space. Critic's Notebook. PAGE C1
Science Times
TORNADO FORECASTS
STILL HAVE LIMITS
Tornado forecasting and the technology that accompanies it have improved greatly over the years, researchers say. But the disasters of 2011 underline a lingering reality: Many of the circumstances that were beyond science in 1953 are still beyond science today. PAGE D4
COLLECTING DATA ON WATER
Scientists have been using small variations in the Earth's gravity to identify trouble spots around the globe where people are making unsustainable demands on groundwater, one of the planet's main sources of fresh water. PAGE D1
OP-ED
David Brooks PAGE A23
Joe Nocera PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); WIND ENERGY (83%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (83%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CIVIL WAR (72%); JUDGES (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ARREST WARRANTS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); RELIGION (62%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (62%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); WHEAT FARMING (60%); WIND POWER PLANTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); HAMAD KARZAI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (58%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (94%); YEMEN (92%); MONGOLIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SUDAN (92%); EL SALVADOR (79%); AFRICA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1006 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: A FrontPoint Founder Tries Again With a New Firm

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
When FrontPoint Partners began in 2000, its founders envisioned the firm as a one-stop shop for multiple hedge funds, a distinctive strategy in an industry dominated at the time by single star managers.
As FrontPoint fights to stay alive after an insider trading scandal, one of its co-founders, Philip Duff, who left in 2006, sits in a nondescript office less than a mile away from his former firm rethinking the pension business with his latest venture, Massif Partners.It is his second attempt.
After Mr. Duff helped to orchestrate the sale of FrontPoint to Morgan Stanley in 2006, he struck out on his own, starting Duff Capital Advisors. As with FrontPoint, he tried to identify an untapped market, in this case state and local pension funds struggling to meet their obligations. 
He had grand ambitions. Seeded with $500 million to build the business from the private equity firm Lindsay Goldberg, Mr. Duff leased offices in a high-end building in Greenwich, Conn. He loaded the offices with bells and whistles, including a new skylight with automatic tinting to reduce heat and glare.
Duff Capital offered pension and endowment funds a comprehensive group of services, including advice, risk management and a variety of investment options like hedge funds and private equity portfolios. At the time, Mr. Duff boasted that the firm had the potential to be larger than many of the world's top hedge funds, saying it was in talks to receive as much as $1.5 billion in seed capital to invest.
''Next-generation solutions are needed, and we believe a new approach is required to meet those needs,'' Mr. Duff said, in an announcement heralding the new venture.
But the timing was bad.
The firm started in March 2008, just months before the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the onset of the financial crisis. With the markets in disarray, clients never materialized and Duff Capital shut down in May 2009. The firm never moved into its plush offices.
Now, Mr. Duff, a former top executive at Morgan Stanley, is trying again. His new firm, Massif Partners - which like FrontPoint has a name that refers to his passion for mountain climbing - is building off the blueprint of Duff Capital and focusing on pensions. A spokesman for Mr. Duff declined to comment.
If anything, the institutional investors are in worse shape. A recent study of 126 state and local pensions funds found that they had just 77 cents for every $1 of obligations. That is down 2 percent from 2009 and the lowest level since the mid-90s, according to the report by the Boston College Center for Retirement Research.
Typically, the institutional investors take an a la carte approach to building a comprehensive portfolio, getting risk analytics, investment advice and fund options from a variety of providers. Massif is trying to streamline the investment process for pensions, giving them access to several services through one firm, according to a person with knowledge of the situation who declined to speak publicly.
While it is a growing industry, the field is competitive, said Stewart Massey, co-founder of Massey Quick, a consulting and wealth management firm. Mr. Duff has raised just $4.5 million from 10 investors, according to a regulatory filing in January.
''Unless you have that cornerstone investor, it's a very tough business to build,'' Mr. Massey said.
Mr. Duff began his career as a grain trader at Louis Dreyfus in the late 1970s, leaving in 1982 to attend business school at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. During the summer, he worked as an associate at Morgan Stanley in the mergers and acquisitions group.
After graduation, he joined the financial institutions group at Morgan Stanley during a period of rapid consolidation in the banking industry. He quickly rose through the ranks, becoming the chief financial officer under John J. Mack in 1994. Mr. Duff was 34.
A few years later, he jumped from investment banking to asset management, becoming chief operating officer at Tiger Management, the hedge fund founded by the legendary investor Julian Robertson. When Mr. Robertson closed his fund to outside investors in 2000, Mr. Duff left.
Late that year, Mr. Duff, Gil Caffray, the former head trader at Tiger, and Paul Ghaffari, a manager for George Soros, decided to start FrontPoint. Mr. Duff named the firm after a technique used to climb ice.
After five years, the team was managing more than $5 billion, thanks in part to its diversified model. FrontPoint brought several independent managers in house, providing back-office support and risk controls for the group. As assets swelled, the firm caught the eye of Mr. Duff's former employer, Morgan Stanley, which took an ownership stake for $400 million in late 2006. Shortly thereafter, Mr. Duff left FrontPoint.
Last year, the multimanager model that had served the firm so well suddenly became a liability. In early November, the government arrested a French doctor on suspicion of leaking insider tips about a drug trial to a hedge fund portfolio manager, later revealed to be an employee of FrontPoint. Joseph F. Skowron, the employee, was charged with insider trading last month while the doctor, Yves Benhamou, pleaded guilty in the case.
While neither FrontPoint nor any other managers were accused of wrongdoing, the entire firm suffered. Investors pulled more than $3 billion from the main fund, and earlier this month FrontPoint announced that it was shutting down most of its funds.
Some say that the problems at FrontPoint and Duff Capital could make it difficult for Massif to attract clients.
''In any situation, your most important asset is your judgment, and that's especially true on Wall Street,'' said Steven Seiden, a founder of Seiden Krieger Associates, an executive search firm.
''If it's a blatant lapse of judgment that caused this, then it could be very difficult,'' he said of the collapse of Duff Capital. ''If it's part of everyone who got swept up in the financial maelstrom, then that's a different story.''
Mr. Duff has not begun marketing in earnest and does not expect to start investing until early 2012, according to people who have been briefed on his plans. For now, he is focused on developing Massif, which in climbing parlance refers to a cluster of mountain peaks. Along with veterans from FrontPoint and Duff Capital, he is in talks to hire FrontPoint staff, as that business winds down its main fund.
He has also traded the grandeur of Duff Capital for the more modest Massif. He's downsized from the more than 40,000-square-foot offices for Duff Capital to a featureless space with warm, blond wood accents. The Massif office, in the retail corridor of Greenwich, is one floor up from Giggle, a store that sells clothing, furniture, books, toys and other items for babies.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The former offices of Duff Capital Advisors in Greenwich, Conn. The firm closed in May 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Philip Duff's new firm plans to offer a range of investment services to pension funds. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DUFF CAPITAL ADVISORS, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); SCANDALS (57%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LINDSAY GOLDBERG & BESSEMER LP (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1007 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Suspended In Space, 103 Stories Over Chicago

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- The view looking down through the glass floor toward South Wacker Drive is just what you'd expect if you were balanced on top of 6,960 boxes of this city's deep-dish pizza -- or, as the exhibition at the Willis Tower also tells us, standing atop 313 Oprah Winfreys or 283 Barack Obamas.
That thought brings on its own sort of vertigo. The comfort is that those human towers would reach the top of the building itself, while this particular perch for a human version of Yertle the Turtle is a bit lower, on the 103rd floor: fewer pizzas, media stars and presidents would be required.
Not much help. Stand on the Ledge, as it is called, on the tower's Skydeck, and look down on rooftops and traffic helicopters, and leftward toward the haze over the lake, and outward along the city's grid stretching toward the South Side. Despite the reassuring rivets in the 1,500-pound glass panels, the calm stillness of the air at the Windy City's pinnacle and the security of a 10,000-pound weight capacity for each of the four 4.3-foot-deep glass boxes that protrude past the sheer edge of the Western Hemisphere's tallest building -- despite all that, you still feel twinges of queasiness. 
If the Deity had wanted us to see straight down as far as we can see straight up, he would certainly not have come up with these glass extensions, which were added to the Skydeck in 2009. It is comforting to know that they were designed by the building's original architects, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, and mounted on tracks that allow them to be pulled inside for cleaning and maintenance. But any reassurance is undercut by the elimination of nearly all visible support; you walk within them, 1,353 feet above South Wacker Drive, surrounded by open air and unbounded space.
It's a weird sensation. The structural use of steel made the Chicago skyscraper and its epigones possible at the turn of the 20th century. Later glass-clad frames seem to almost magically dissolve the signs of massive support that we expect when confronted with buildings of such height. But the playful formality of the glass skyscraper is very different when you stand within a transparent structure in which there is no structural steel evident, either above or below. Here wit turns to mischief; it's a tease made by technology.
But there's also an exhilaration that you don't get if you visit a distant relative of the Ledge: the Grand Canyon Skywalk. That attraction opened two years before these Chicago extensions and promised to be far more spectacular: a transparent-floored observation deck stretching outward 70 feet from the canyon's rim and suspended 4,000 feet above the Colorado River (as high as 900 Oprahs and an impossible number of deep-dish pizzas).
It was built on land owned by the Hualapai Indians, who had great hopes that, along with bellicose helicopter rides into the canyon and quaint displays of folk culture, the Skywalk would guarantee the tribe a rosy economic future. I visited the Skywalk soon after its opening and was astounded not at seeing Nature's expansive dimensions open at my feet, but at the sheer irrelevance of the enterprise. The expense, hype and setting couldn't match Nature's own spectacle at the main part of the canyon, run by the National Park Service -- an immensity that makes all human enterprise seem like petty gimcrackery.
The Skywalk has recently come under the shadow of various legal squabbles between the tribe and the developer, but there also may be something inherently flawed in the concept. It might be that apart from such unusual activities as a space walk or a sky dive the natural world presents itself to us with as much power when seen horizontally as vertically. We don't need vertigo to get the point.
But with the Ledge something is sensed that you can't really get from walking around the Skydeck with its panoramic vistas of Chicago and its labeled guides to landmarks. I don't recall that sensation from the observation deck of the old World Trade Center years ago either. When you look out through a window at the metropolis laid out before you, the city becomes a map, allowing you to make some sense of its immensity; this is the way pilots must feel as they guide their planes into urban airports. Window vistas on the world are beautiful but not powerfully unsettling or overwhelming. They help make sense of the world, not disrupt it.
Pull the rug out, though -- or rather, pull out the solid floor, all suggestions of support, and stand on layers of glass -- and something else happens. You become a vulnerable observer. You look at the city and its expanse, but you can't settle into complacency or reflective mapping. You end up feeling, along with the amazement, an all-too-human unsteadiness. You are part of that city of course, and are even relying on its technological achievements by standing in this elevated spot. But you also recognize just how unusual and vulnerable those advances are. The city might attempt to transcend the human, but it also readily reflects it. Spend a minute on the glass Ledge, and you feel that in your bones.
In fact when you visit the Ledge (which 1.5 million visitors do every year), you also find yourself in a series of exhibitions celebrating the city itself. We learn about the entertainers born in or closely connected to Chicagoland (as it is cutely called): Raquel Welch , Harrison Ford, Walt Disney, Hugh Hefner. Or about political figures: Hillary Rodham Clinton, Donald H. Rumsfeld, Ronald Reagan, the Rev. Jesse Jackson. Or writers: Ernest Hemingway, L. Frank Baum, David Mamet (with Saul Bellow strangely omitted). Or musicians: Muddy Waters, Benny Goodman, Louis Armstrong. There is George Ferris, who invented his amusement-park ride for the 1893 World's Fair here, and department-store magnates like Marshall Field and A. Montgomery Ward. O'Hare Airport, we learn, was once called Orchard Place, which is why the initials for Chicago's major hub are still ORD.
We learn that this very tower was conceived in 1969 when Sears Roebuck & Company was the largest retailer in the world, with about 350,000 employees. Once known as the Sears Tower, the building is celebrated in statistics that appear throughout the displays: it contains 25,000 miles of electrical cable, 43,000 miles of telephone cables, 16,100 windows, 2 billion cubic feet of concrete, 104 elevator cars. It remained the Sears Tower until 2009, long after the company had sold it and moved out; it was renamed after the Willis Group, a London-based insurance broker, leased part of the building and obtained naming rights.
Now it is a monument to Chicago's great retailing past and a witness to its passing. But when you stand on the Ledge, the entire urban fabric seems both marvelously permanent and permeated with vulnerabilities, an imposing achievement and a transitory exercise. Do you want to sense both the power and fragility of human civilization? Walk on the Ledge.
The Ledge is in Willis Tower, 233 South Wacker Drive, Chicago; the-skydeck.com or (877) 759-3325.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Boxes of glass extend from the Willis Tower's 103rd floor in Chicago. (C1)
The Ledge, which protrudes 4.3 feet beyond the tower's walls, has a floor of glass that makes an exhilarating -- but to some, unnerving -- perch 1,353 feet above the city, with a view straight down.
 The glass boxes of the Ledge on the Willis Tower, above left. The Skydeck's view, above right, is more horizontal than vertical. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (53%)

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1008 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: A Good Night's Sleep Isn't a Luxury; It's a Necessity

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
In my younger years, I regarded sleep as a necessary evil, nature's way of thwarting my desire to cram as many activities into a 24-hour day as possible. I frequently flew the red-eye from California, for instance, sailing (or so I thought) through the next day on less than four hours of uncomfortable sleep.
But my neglect was costing me in ways that I did not fully appreciate. My husband called our nights at the ballet and theater ''Jane's most expensive naps.'' Eventually we relinquished our subscriptions. Driving, too, was dicey: twice I fell asleep at the wheel, narrowly avoiding disaster. I realize now that I was living in a state of chronic sleep deprivation.
I don't want to nod off during cultural events, and I no longer have my husband to spell me at the wheel. I also don't want to compromise my ability to think and react. As research cited recently in this newspaper's magazine found, ''The sleep-deprived among us are lousy judges of our own sleep needs. We are not nearly as sharp as we think we are.'' 
Studies have shown that people function best after seven to eight hours of sleep, so I now aim for a solid seven hours, the amount associated with the lowest mortality rate. Yet on most nights something seems to interfere, keeping me up later than my intended lights-out at 10 p.m. -- an essential household task, an e-mail requiring an urgent and thoughtful response, a condolence letter I never found time to write during the day, a long article that I must read.
It's always something.
What's Keeping Us Up?
I know I'm hardly alone. Between 1960 and 2010, the average night's sleep for adults in the United States dropped to six and a half hours from more than eight. Some experts predict a continuing decline, thanks to distractions like e-mail, instant and text messaging, and online shopping.
Age can have a detrimental effect on sleep. In a 2005 national telephone survey of 1,003 adults ages 50 and older, the Gallup Organization found that a mere third of older adults got a good night's sleep every day, fewer than half slept more than seven hours, and one-fifth slept less than six hours a night.
With advancing age, natural changes in sleep quality occur. People may take longer to fall asleep, and they tend to get sleepy earlier in the evening and to awaken earlier in the morning. More time is spent in the lighter stages of sleep and less in restorative deep sleep. R.E.M. sleep, during which the mind processes emotions and memories and relieves stress, also declines with age.
Habits that ruin sleep often accompany aging: less physical activity, less time spent outdoors (sunlight is the body's main regulator of sleepiness and wakefulness), poorer attention to diet, taking medications that can disrupt sleep, caring for a chronically ill spouse, having a partner who snores. Some use alcohol in hopes of inducing sleep; in fact, it disrupts sleep.
Add to this list a host of sleep-robbing health issues, like painful arthritis, diabetes, depression, anxiety, sleep apnea, hot flashes in women and prostate enlargement in men. In the last years of his life, my husband was plagued with restless leg syndrome, forcing him to get up and walk around in the middle of the night until the symptoms subsided. During a recent night, I was awake for hours with leg cramps that simply wouldn't quit.
Beauty Rest and Beyond
A good night's sleep is much more than a luxury. Its benefits include improvements in concentration, short-term memory, productivity, mood, sensitivity to pain and immune function.
If you care about how you look, more sleep can even make you appear more attractive. In a study published online in December in the journal BMJ, researchers in Sweden and the Netherlands reported that 23 sleep-deprived adults seemed to untrained observers to be less healthy, more tired and less attractive than they appeared to be after a full night's sleep.
Perhaps more important, losing sleep may make you fat -- or at least, fatter than you would otherwise be. In a study by Harvard researchers involving 68,000 middle-aged women followed for 16 years, those who slept five hours or less each night were found to weigh 5.4 pounds more -- and were 15 percent more likely to become obese -- than the women who slept seven hours nightly.
Michael Breus, a clinical psychologist and sleep specialist in Scottsdale, Ariz., and author of ''The Sleep Doctor's Diet Plan,'' points out that as the average length of sleep has declined in the United States, the average weight of Americans has increased.
There are plausible reasons to think this is a cause-and-effect relationship. At least two factors may be involved: more waking hours in homes brimming with food and snacks; and possible changes in the hormones leptin and ghrelin, which regulate appetite.
In a study published in 2009 in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Dr. Plamen D. Penev, an endocrinologist at the University of Chicago, and co-authors explored calorie consumption and expenditure by 11 healthy volunteers who spent two 14-day stays in a sleep laboratory. Both sessions offered unlimited access to tasty foods. During one stay, the volunteers -- five women and six men -- were limited to 5.5 hours of sleep a night, and during the other they got 8.5 hours of sleep.
Although the subjects ate the same amount of food at meals, during the shortened nights they consumed an average of 221 more calories from snacks than they did when they were getting more sleep. The snacks they ate tended to be high in carbohydrates, and the subjects expended no more energy than they did on the longer nights. In just two weeks, the extra nighttime snacking could add nearly a pound to body weight, the scientists concluded.
These researchers found no significant changes in the participants' blood levels of the hormones leptin and ghrelin, but others have found that short sleepers have lower levels of appetite-suppressing leptin and higher levels of ghrelin, which prompts an increase in calorie intake.
Sleep loss may also affect the function of a group of neurons in the hypothalamus of the brain, where another hormone, orexin, is involved in the regulation of feeding behavior.
The bottom line: Resist the temptation to squeeze one more thing into the end of your day. If health problems disrupt your sleep, seek treatment that can lessen their effect. If you have trouble falling asleep or often awaken during the night and can't get back to sleep, you could try taking supplements of melatonin, the body's natural sleep inducer. I keep it at my bedside.
If you have trouble sleeping, the tips accompanying this article may help. And if all else fails, try to take a nap during the day. Naps can enhance brain function, energy, mood and productivity.
This is the second of two columns on sleep needs.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YVETTA FEDOROVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLEEP (90%); SLEEP DISORDERS (78%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); INSTANT MESSAGING (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (65%); TEXT MESSAGING (64%)

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1009 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Governing, But Not Taking Any Questions

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Utica, N.Y.
There in the well of an auditorium in this busted industrial age beauty stands our new Democratic governor, delivering an incantatory Republican speech about slashing taxes and overcoming small-minded politicians.
''They are voting their party ideology, they are voting with their party leadership -- this has to stop,'' he says, disgust filling his voice like water into a cistern.
And then, a little later: ''No new taxes. Period. Not little taxes, not hidden taxes. This state has no economic future as the tax capital of the nation.'' 
He waves at the delirious crowd, a cocky fellow offering an aw-shucks grin.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is on one impressive roll, although precisely where it leads remains a mystery. In the last three months, he has pushed a spare budget down the throat of the Democratic-controlled Assembly, and, for good measure, forced it to swallow a property-tax cap that many legislators privately viewed as foolish.
His politics sound closer to those of a former mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, than to those of a former governor, Mario M. Cuomo. He calls himself a progressive who is broke, but that sidesteps the question. The governor has been with us three decades -- he managed his father's campaign for governor at the impossibly young age of 24 -- without ever quite filling in his blanks.
Mr. Cuomo's inner circle is a crowd of three, two, maybe one. Press aides ferry questions to the governor. But he himself rarely gets on the phone, and then only when the conversation is off the record. He is no less cagey with his fellow politicians, who must rarely put head to pillow without worrying whether the governor is whispering sweet nothings into the ears of their rivals.
His political timing is splendid. As he was never caught patronizing a call girl or, during his first week in office, talking about past infidelities, he has an advantage on the past two governors.
And he has mastered the off-balance political move.
His tax cap will prevent cities and towns from raising property taxes by more than 2 percent each year. The state will offer no rescue. At the end of April, Mr. Cuomo pushed through a $1.3 billion cut in education aid, a whack that landed heavily on the shoulders of the poorest districts, like New York City.
Mr. Cuomo describes such moves as a purgative for a state on a diet that is too rich. Money does not ensure better schools, finer roads or more jobs.
There is a measure of truth here. Property taxes hobble many upstate hamlets and cities. Too many school districts are run as tightly held principalities, rarely sharing costs, much less ideas. And per-capita spending on administrators has outpaced that for teachers. Mr. Cuomo is fond of comparisons with Massachusetts, which imposed tax caps decades ago. Schools and services there have suffered more than he acknowledges, but few Massachusetts school districts spend more than $10,000 per student, while getting good educational results, according to a study by the Center for American Progress.
In New York, that same study showed, spending in wealthy public school systems on Long Island has edged close to $20,000 per student. Mr. Cuomo's own daughters attend a richly financed public high school in Westchester County. (Money may not lead to a better education, but few well-to-do parents seem inclined to take a chance. Private schools in New York City charge more than $30,000 per pupil.)
NEW YORK'S wealthy, in fact, tend not to inhabit the galaxy of shared sacrifice. Mr. Cuomo refuses to extend the so-called millionaire's tax, which raises about $5 billion a year. The rich, to his view, are fickle creatures prone to bolting at a whiff of tax talk.
But we digress. Mr. Cuomo explained to the audience in Utica on Wednesday that while residents can vote to override the tax cap, a super-majority of 60 percent was required.
''For once,'' he says to applause, ''I want the odds in favor of the taxpayer.''
Department of Rhetorical Questions: If a budget vote fails by the not-so-democratic split of 41 percent to 59 percent, doesn't a sizable majority of taxpayers get stiffed? Just asking.
Still, Mr. Cuomo's urge to control is considerable. The crowd here laughs at all his lines and applauds on cue, but when it comes time to take questions, he does not. There will be no off-script exploration of his political views.
The state is his muscle car, and he's not letting go of the steering wheel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MAYORS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIES (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%); EDUCATION FUNDING (64%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (60%); CITY LIFE (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTICA, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1010 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: The Right Way to Shrink Prisons

BYLINE: By SHIMA BARADARAN. 
is an associate professor of law at Brigham Young University and the chairwoman of the American Bar Association Pretrial Release Task Force.

 BODY:
Provo, Utah
LAST week the Supreme Court ordered California to reduce its prison population after finding that the state's penal system was so overcrowded that it constituted cruel and unusual punishment. What the court didn't do, however, was provide any guidance about how to do it, giving rise to fears of violent convicts being set free and increasing crime rates.
Rather than seek major criminal justice reforms to reduce the prisoner numbers, including scrapping California's harsh ''three strikes'' sentencing laws, Gov. Jerry Brown has proposed simply moving the surplus state prisoners to county jails. This does nothing to reduce California's disproportionately high incarceration rates and could just transfer the overcrowding to local jails. 
Fortunately, there is a more lasting solution to overcrowding, one that gets to the heart of exploding inmate populations nationwide: reform the rules governing pretrial detention, in part by using formulas to help judges better determine which defendants are unlikely to commit crimes while on bail. Doing so not only would make the system more fair, but also would significantly reduce the number of people who are unnecessarily jailed and even reduce crime rates.
Every year America spends close to $66 billion to keep people behind bars. But almost 500,000 of the 2.3 million prisoners aren't convicts; rather, they are accused individuals awaiting trial.
While some defendants are able to pay their bail and go free, most cannot, because many judges, lacking firm insight into what types of prisoners are too dangerous to release, set high bail amounts knowing the accused can't afford them. Though some of these defendants will eventually be found not guilty and go free, keeping them incarcerated before their trials creates a burden on the prison system.
What's more, detention begets more detention. Defendants detained before trial are more likely to be convicted if they go to trial, more likely to receive prison sentences rather than probation when sentenced, and, given their weak bargaining power with prosecutors while locked up, are more likely to have longer sentences.
A few jurisdictions, however, have begun to think outside the prison cell. In line with recommendations endorsed by the American Bar Association, Miami-Dade County cut costs associated with detention by supervising defendants outside jail at a total cost of around $400 per defendant per year, compared with $20,000 for incarcerated defendants. In Iowa, alternatives to pretrial detention saved the state's Southern District $1.7 million in 2009.
These and other jurisdictions have also cut costs using technology, like G.P.S. trackers and ankle bracelets, that allow defendants to remain at home -- with supervision -- while awaiting trial.
True, while these solutions may make sense from a budgetary standpoint, critics worry that increasing pretrial releases will present a threat to public safety, especially since judges are typically left to make bail decisions based simply on a gut feeling.
The risk of release can be largely reduced by arming judges with more data to inform their decisions. Frank McIntyre, an economist, and I recently examined data from over 100,000 felony defendants over a 15-year period, and we found very clear trends regarding which defendants are more likely to commit crimes while free on bail.
For example, judges often detain too many older defendants (people over 30), defendants with clean records and defendants charged with fraud or public order offenses -- in other words, people who are less likely to commit crimes while out on bail. On the other hand, judges release too many young defendants with extensive records, people who are more likely to break the law while awaiting trial.
This data could be used to create a set of guidelines that would give judges a better sense of which defendants to release. Of course, judges must use individual discretion and carefully consider local data with pretrial detention decisions. However, our models indicate that such guidelines could safely lead to the release of up to 25 percent more defendants -- and a significant reduction in prison costs and crime rates.
Given eye-popping local, state and federal deficits, it's unlikely that California will be the only state to face the tough choices involved in reducing its prison population. With the right data on pretrial defendants, though, judges can help make that task a lot easier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (96%); CRIME RATES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); BAIL (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); ELECTRONIC MONITOR SENTENCING (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); PROBATION (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (75%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVO, UT, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1011 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: 2 Americans Are Indicted In Iraq Contract Bribery

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; James Glanz contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
BAGHDAD -- Two American businessmen have been charged with giving Army officers airline tickets, spa vacations and more than $1 million in bribes to secure multimillion-dollar contracts to supply the American military and help rebuild Iraq, according to court documents.
A federal indictment against the men, George H. Lee, and his son, Justin W. Lee, was unsealed on Friday. Both are charged with four counts of bribery and one count of conspiracy. 
The Lees are among nearly 60 contractors and military officers to face criminal charges stemming from the scramble for often poorly monitored government contracts in the early years of the Iraq war.
Federal officials have also blocked 120 people and companies accused of fraud and corruption from doing business with the government. The Lees' company, Lee Dynamics International, was suspended in July 2007.
Justin W. Lee was expected to appear in federal court in Philadelphia as early as Tuesday, and George H. Lee is believed to be at large outside the United States, possibly in Kuwait or Dubai. A lawyer who has represented the company did not return phone or e-mail messages on Monday.
The 25-page indictment describes a relationship between the Lees and military contracting officers, where lucrative contracts to build warehouses in Iraq or provide American troops with bottled water and blankets could be bought for the cost of a first-class plane ticket or a wire transfer of several thousand dollars.
Court documents say that one Army major at Camp Arifjan in Kuwait received at least $225,000 in cash in exchange for funneling $14 million worth of military contracts toward the Lees' business.
The major is identified only as ''Person One'' in the indictment, but her description almost perfectly matches that of Maj. Gloria D. Davis, who shot and killed herself in Baghdad in December 2006 after telling investigators she had taken $225,000 in bribes from the company.
The indictment portrays ''Person One'' and the Lees as working hand in hand. It says that the Lees secured a job for the son of ''Person One,'' and that she and George Lee flew to Thailand together to establish a bank account to receive wire transfers.
She is quoted in a January 2005 e-mail to George Lee thanking him, ''for everything you have done for me and my family.''
The indictment also ties the case against the Lees to another major corruption inquiry involving Maj. John Cockerham, who was sentenced to 17 years in prison for taking $9.6 million in bribes while working at a contracting office in Kuwait. Seven other soldiers have been implicated in that investigation.
Court documents say that Major Cockerham received ''at least $1 million'' from the Lees in exchange for steering them business to provide troops with bottled water, bunk beds and mattresses, among other things.
In Iraq on Monday, one of the country's most prominent politicians, Adel Abdul Mahdi, signaled that he would step down from his largely ceremonial post as vice president. The move was portrayed as a swipe at Iraq's bloated ranks of ministers, vice presidents and deputies.
Mr. Abdul Mahdi was one of three vice presidents. A statement from his political party, the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq, said Iraq's government needed to slim down.
Public protests throughout the late winter and spring excoriated Iraq's government as unwieldy, inefficient and corrupt.
Faced with those outpourings of public criticism, Iraqi politicians moved to cut their salaries and raise food and oil subsidies. But they have yet to decide crucial questions about whether American troops should extend their stay, or how to distribute revenue from vast oil fields in the north.
Unemployment stands at about 25 percent, and the approach of the sweltering summer months (it was 110 degrees on Monday) is likely to once again lay bare the failures of Iraq's inadequate electrical power grid.
Mr. Abdul Mahdi's own position even became a symbol of political paralysis. He served as vice president for the past five years, and was again nominated to the post in December. But Parliament did not vote to approve the three vice-presidential candidates until May 12.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (92%); INDICTMENTS (91%); ARMIES (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); IRAQ WAR (79%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); WIRE TRANSFERS (69%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (66%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (51%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (89%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (93%); THAILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1012 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: The Hotel Push For In-Room Movies

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AT a dinner party in Tucson over the weekend, the subject of movies came up. The five friends there were all business travelers, all movie buffs.
One is semiretired but is still a frequent traveler and goes to movie theaters frequently. Yet, he is still unable to see a handful of the very latest and most talked-about movies. As a result of the archaic studio distribution systems, many of the cutting-edge films have not yet come to theaters outside of the major marquee cities like New York and Los Angeles.
Two of the others at the party, including myself, occasionally go to the movie theater but more often catch up on films later on DVD. The other two, very frequent international travelers, never go to theaters, and instead see movies, including current ones, on in-flight entertainment systems offered by many premium international airlines. Some of the systems offer more than 100 on-demand high-definition recent movies on big flat in-seat screens. 
None of us, however, said we watched a movie in a hotel room.
That reality underscores challenges facing LodgeNet Interactive, the major supplier of hotel-room movies and television. Challenges also face the hotel industry itself, digging out of a recession, still perplexed about what guests are willing to pay for in in-room on-demand entertainment. The chains are also struggling to weigh the cost-benefit of investing in new hardware like big flat-screen high-definition screens for hundreds, or thousands, of rooms they may operate in any given hotel.
LodgeNet provides interactive video service in about 1.5 million rooms in 9,000 hotels in North America. This week, the company plans to announce a new initiative, VOD 2.0, to broaden its appeal to travelers.
Instead of selling a selection of video on-demand movies at a single price, LodgeNet has revamped its system to offer a wider range of movies at various price levels, including budget prices for older movies. But the main feature is a new-release feature that LodgeNet says will provide the earliest availability, outside of movie theaters, for a select number of movies.
This move comes just weeks after DirecTV, whose satellite TV service is mostly used in homes, introduced DirecTV Cinema, which charges $29.99 for high-definition newer movies like ''Just Go With It,'' starring Jennifer Aniston and Adam Sandler. It was available about 60 days after opening in theaters, and will become available on usual cable on-demand menus or on DVDs and Blu-ray.
LodgeNet says its VOD 2.0 for hotels has a wider selection of these earliest nontheatrical-release movies, at a price of about half what DirecTV charges.
Will people pay this much for a hotel-room movie, especially as the trend rapidly grows in travelers bringing with them more sophisticated personal mobile technologies like iPads? With free cable television choices in rooms, with the Internet and myriad other diversions already available in ever-wider options on personal mobile devices, is there a real growth market for selling hotel-room movies?
In hotels, market research shows that ''the consumer profile of the guest improves with more trips made and higher affluence; that this group is huge consumers of entertainment,'' said Derek White, the president of LodgeNet's Interactive division. ''In important terms, they also are very important in helping to socialize new movies.''
He is referring to the argument that some airlines also make -- that the studios should be working harder to get newer releases in front of business travelers. These travelers, like my friends, are movie buffs who spread their interest via word of mouth.
In general, movie theater owners, who have been big powers in Hollywood since the silent-film era, do not like any suggestion that might keep anyone away from the box office. But as on-demand personal and in-home video grows, battles over movie distribution schedules are intensifying.
Word of mouth recommendations from people with wide social networks, like business travelers, can actually be part of a newer movie's promotion and ''help these movies take hold'' in the market, said Mr. White. ''It won't really steal business away from the main theaters, which is the big issue right now with premium VOD that has the theater owners up in arms.''
It's going to be interesting to watch, so to speak. Right now, only 16 percent of LodgeNet's hotel-room base has the requisite big-screen, high-definition TV sets.
But as the hotel industry gains better economic traction, ''the transition to high-def is really back in gear,'' said Mr. White, who added: ''For those hotel rooms that actually have gone to the flat screens and hi-def, we're seeing 40 percent more revenue. You're just more likely to plunk down $15 for a movie if you can enjoy it on a big beautiful screen in your room.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); FILM (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE THEATERS (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (89%); LODGING (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); BUDGETS (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (72%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (69%); AIRLINES (68%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (58%); JENNIFER ANISTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1013 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: The Numbers Are Grim: The economy needs more help, but help is not forthcoming

 BODY:
A month ago, when an initial gauge of first-quarter economic growth came in surprisingly weak, many policy makers and economists expected the bad news to prove fleeting. But when revised data were released last week, the growth estimate remained stuck at an annual rate of 1.8 percent, compared with 3.1 percent at the end of last year. 
More troubling in the latest figures, consumer spending -- the largest component of the economy -- was especially slow. Stagnant wages and higher prices for gas and food are squeezing family budgets, while falling home equity hurts consumer confidence. That suggests more bad news to come.
When consumers are constrained, so is hiring, because without customers, employers are hard pressed to retain workers or make new hires. A recent Labor Department report showed a greater-than-expected rise in the number of people claiming jobless benefits even as private-sector economic forecasts are being revised downward -- both very bad omens for continued job growth.
Republican lawmakers have responded to renewed signs of weakness with a jobs plan that prescribes more of the same ''fixes'' that Republicans always recommend no matter the problem: mainly high-end tax cuts, deregulation, more domestic oil drilling and federal spending cuts.
The White House has offered sounder ideas, including job retraining, plans to boost educational achievement and tax increases to help cover needed spending. But its economic team is mainly focused on negotiations to raise the debt limit, presumably parrying Republican demands for deep spending cuts that could weaken the economy further while still reaching an agreement on the necessary increase.
The grim numbers tell an unavoidable truth: The economy is not growing nearly fast enough to dent unemployment. Unfortunately, no one in Washington is pushing policies to promote stronger growth now.
The sinkholes in the economy should be obvious. Most prominently, the housing market is still awful, and state and local government budgets are still a mess. Conditions apparently have to get worse before deficit-obsessed policy makers will be ready to address them, including with bolstered foreclosure relief and more fiscal aid to states. More delay would only imperil the recovery, such as it is. And without a strong recovery, it will be even harder to repair the budget. Continued hard times means low tax revenues and high safety-net spending.
If Washington won't do what is needed to make things better, there are still things that can be done to try to keep the economy from getting worse.
The administration could work to ease the rules for refinancing mortgages owned by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-run mortgage giants. Easier refinancings would lower monthly payments for potentially hundreds of thousands of borrowers in good standing, and in that way, free up spending money to boost the economy.
The Federal Reserve, for its part, must be prepared to continue measures to bolster the economy as needed, even if that means looser policy for longer than it originally planned. Democrats in Congress must lay the groundwork for an inevitable fight over extending federal unemployment benefits, which expire at the end of this year.
There's a long way to go before the economy will thrive without government help.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (85%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); DEREGULATION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX INCREASES (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); FOOD PRICES (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); FORECLOSURE (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (70%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1014 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: China's Economy Is Starting to Slow, but Threat of Inflation Looms

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
CHANGSHA, China -- China's economy is starting to slow, after two years of torrid growth achieved following the global downturn.
Chinese manufacturers' backlogs of orders are gradually shrinking in many industries. Purchasing managers have become less optimistic about their businesses' prospects. And after surging past the United States in car sales over the last two years, the Chinese auto market unexpectedly stalled last month, as carmakers curtailed production plans.
Because China's cooling economy is partly a result of Beijing's efforts to contain inflation, some economists are not worried, saying a slight slowdown could be positive. And they say that after the government eases off the brakes, economic growth should quickly pick back up.
But other experts worry that inflation is already so entrenched that the government may be forced to continue braking the economy for a considerable time. 
''They have to continue to tighten policy into what we expect will be a sharp growth downturn, already likely to be under way,'' said Diana Choyleva, an economist in the Hong Kong office of Lombard Street Research, an economic forecasting firm based in London.
The world closely monitors the temperature of China's economy, so crucial has it become to the health of global business and finance. This spring, as economists at Western investment banks have been reducing their growth forecasts for China, the specter of slackening Chinese demand has helped send world prices for industrial commodities like copper falling by 10 percent or more.
And the ''A'' share stock market in Shanghai has dropped 11.7 percent from its high on April 18, including drops of 0.13 percent on Monday and nearly 1 percent on Friday.
Despite signs of slowing Chinese growth, some international corporate executives say they remain optimistic, particularly if they look beyond the next several months.
''I don't think it's a hard landing,'' said Martin Brudermuller, the vice chairman for BASF of Germany, the world's largest chemical company, which sells to a wide range of industries in China. ''I'm not really worried at this point.''
And even though Goldman Sachs last Tuesday cut its forecast for economic growth in China during the second quarter to 8 percent -- down from 8.8 percent -- it predicted that growth would recover to 9.3 percent by the fourth quarter.
The optimists note that the Chinese economy expanded robustly until this spring, even though policy makers had been stomping on the brakes since October to try to curb inflation. Seen from that perspective, policy makers can easily press the growth accelerator, after inflation starts to subside.
The braking measures have included the requirement that commercial banks, to restrict their ability to lend, must park more than one-fifth of their assets at the central bank. That is starving all but the largest and most politically connected companies of capital.
And trying to slow a real estate boom that looks more and more like a dangerous bubble, the government has also put many restrictions on issuing new mortgages. The measures include requiring higher down payments, to reduce the risk that a real estate collapse would harm the banking system, as happened in the United States.
Another slowdown factor: the huge government investments in high-speed rail and other infrastructure, which played a central role in China's swift recovery in 2009 from the global economic downturn, have begun to level off.
But Douglas Hsu, the chairman and chief executive of the Far Eastern Group, a big Taiwanese multinational with extensive investments in the cement and petrochemicals industries in mainland China, predicted that government-supported efforts to increase construction of low-income housing and move more people from rural areas to cities would offset the gradual deceleration in infrastructure spending in the months and years to come.
The big question now is how much economic growth may slow, before the authorities shift their priority from controlling inflation to revving the growth engine.
Some businesses here in Changsha, a city of 6.5 million people that is the capital of Hunan Province in south-central China, say they already see weakening sales.
''Our business is down 30 to 40 percent, we're losing money every day,'' said Li Chuanlian, the manager of a store that sells stoves.
Real estate prices are still rising briskly here, as speculators with cash continue to snap up properties after the completion of a high-speed rail line linking Changsha to the more affluent Guangzhou. But in many cases, buyers are economizing on furnishing those apartments, Mr. Li said.
Blackouts, caused by the nation's utilities balking at high coal prices, are another headache.
''With no electricity, they can't try my products, so business stops,'' said Wang Zhuanghong, the manager of a household appliances store.
Chinese regulators announced on Monday that they would allow electricity rates to rise in half of China's provinces by an average of 1.67 fen per kilowatt-hour, or 0.26 cents, for industrial users. The increase, which works out to 2.2 percent, is intended to give electricity companies a greater incentive to run power plants.
But electricity prices would still lag behind spot coal prices, up 36 percent in China since the start of last year. And electric utilities would not be allowed to charge more to residential users, so as to limit inflation.
The power shortages also threaten to trim China's industrial output over the summer, as the authorities have given priority to residential users during the peak air-conditioning season.
A big source of uncertainty about the Chinese economy hangs over one industry that has propelled consumer spending at a remarkable pace for the last decade: autos.
The swift expansion of the Chinese auto market enabled it to pass the recession-crippled American market in 2009, and then to surpass the highest levels ever achieved in the United States in the total number of vehicles sold. The production and demand have helped underpin high world prices for oil, steel and other commodities.
But sales of cars, minivans and sport utility vehicles grew only 7 percent in April from a year earlier, indicating a further slowing this year after year-over-year sales growth of 20 to 120 percent each month in 2010.
J. D. Power & Associates, the global consulting firm, responded to the weak April sales by lowering its estimate for growth in China's car market this year to 7 percent, down from an earlier forecast of 11 percent. That works out to 295,000 fewer cars this year than previously predicted.
But some of the biggest reasons for the auto slowdown appear to have nothing to do with consumer confidence. John Zeng, the J. D. Power co-director of Asia forecasting for greater China, said that most of the reduced sales forecast -- as many as 260,000 cars of the decline -- reflected the effects of the Japan earthquake on the automotive supply chain. China still relies on Japan for nearly half of its automatic transmissions, whose supply will not return to normal until early next year, Mr. Zeng said.
Meanwhile, in bustling Beijing, the municipal government has cut by half the number of license plates it will allow to be issued this year, as a way to fight traffic jams. That move has trimmed China's projected overall car sales by an additional 4 percent this year.
Some economists say that the government waited too long last year to try to slow the overall economy. They fear that inflation now has such a firm foothold that it could take a serious downturn to stop it.
A step China could take against inflation is to stop issuing billions of extra renminbi each month to pay for intervention in currency markets. The intervention has slowed the renminbi's rise against the dollar to an annual pace of about 5 percent.
But few economists expect China to stop intervening any time soon.
Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent in April from a year earlier after climbing 5.4 percent in March, according to official statistics. The official figures are widely thought to understate the true extent of inflation, which some economists say actually may be twice as high.
State media have begun to warn the public that inflation may persist a long time. Government-imposed price controls have only delayed, not eliminated, the need to raise prices for services like electricity, for which production costs have risen.
Although Chinese policy makers have plenty of options to reinvigorate growth if they declare victory on inflation, they nonetheless face a longer-term challenge. Many economists predict China's economy simply cannot maintain its double-digit growth of the last three decades. In fact, the five-year plan starting this year calls for annual growth of 7 percent from 2011 to 2015.
The problem lies in China's extremely heavy dependence on investment in factories, infrastructure and apartment buildings to sustain growth. The slowly rising levels of debt at local governments and large companies that have financed that investment indicate it may not be sustainable.
At the same time, the economic returns on new highways and other public infrastructure projects are declining, now that the best locations have already been built up, and as planners extend construction to less affluent and more remote areas. While some economists predict this effect will take five or more years to become serious, others warn it could hit sooner.
''Growth will slow significantly in two or three years -- the timing will be determined politically,'' said Michael Pettis, an associate professor of finance at the Guanghua School of Management at Peking University. ''And the slowdown will last much longer than anyone expects -- perhaps over a decade.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Beijing, the number of new car licenses was cut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON LEE/REUTERS) (B1)
 A real estate agent showing a model of new property. The government has put many restrictions on issuing new mortgages. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (65%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); HUNAN, CHINA (74%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1015 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: From Elegiac Appalachian Hollers to New Terrain

BYLINE: By DAVID ROONEY

 BODY:
Making Romulus Linney's ''Tennessee'' the centerpiece of Series A of the Ensemble Studio Theater's 33rd annual festival of one-acts was a fine idea.
It pays tribute to Linney, an undervalued playwright who died in January and had a long history with this incubational Off Broadway company. But it also stands as a vibrant example of what superior short-form drama can encompass in terms of narrative density, pithy character development and idiosyncratic authorial voice.
The downside is that even in Harris Yulin's problematically cast revival, the distinctive homespun Southern lyricism of this 1980 play makes the rest of the patchy program look feeble, though the final two entries do muster a modicum of spark. 
Running just under an hour, ''Tennessee'' opens on a classic Americana tableau. A frontier mother (Julie Fitzpatrick) nurses her baby on a rickety porch in rural North Carolina in 1870, as her husband (Rufus Collins) and teenage son (Eamon Foley) return from a day of working the land.
When an old woman (Kristen Lowman) appears, carrying a cowbell and a shard of broken mirror, they offer her food, and she begins to talk of her youth on that same farm.
Scornful of men, she fended off suitors by swearing she would marry only a husband willing to take her far away to Tennessee. But one man (Scott Sowers) accepted her challenge, taking her on a journey through the wilderness and across the mountains. A lifetime later, she discovers she never traveled far from home.
Having directed a number of Linney's plays, as well as those of Horton Foote, Mr. Yulin has a natural affinity for a vanishing breed of elegiac regionalists. He seems at home in the haunted hills of Appalachia, where past and present become indistinguishable, even if his actors are not always such comfortable visitors.
Closest to the mark here is Mr. Sowers, whose serene persistence with his reluctant bride carries a strain of sly humor and quiet indomitability. His character is as much a part of the land as any tree or rock.
But Ms. Lowman is an unsatisfying fit for the rawboned old woman, who could be ''19 or 90,'' as the young farm wife puts it, and whose folksy wisdom as she approaches death may signal madness or lucidity. This transformative central role was previously played by Lois Smith and Frances Sternhagen, actors with the required seen-it-all authority embedded in their DNA. Ms. Lowman too often slips into the cliche of the thigh-slapping, feisty old bird, as if she were channeling Irene Ryan at her orneriest on ''The Beverly Hillbillies.''
But unevenness among the performers cannot crush the bracing specificity and evocativeness of Linney's writing, qualities mostly absent from the other, less substantial plays.
In both Ben Rosenthal's mannered ''Ten High'' and J. Holtham's ''School Night'' (which plays like a poorly dramatized short story), dialogue that looks smart on the page rarely sounds like the natural voices of these characters. Shown in unflattering contrast to Linney's textured plotting, these slender exercises remain more tethered to ideas -- fate in ''Ten High'' and belonging in ''School Night'' -- than to people or stories.
Billy Aronson brings welcome economy to his play ''In the Middle of the Night,'' in which a mother's surprise visit to her son at college reveals the shocking extent of his emotional instability. And Qui Nguyen's ''Bike Wreck'' harnesses the volatile anger of ethnic minorities being squeezed out of a Manhattan increasingly accommodating only to entitled trust-fund kids and Wall Street vipers.
It's no ''Tennessee,'' but Mr. Nguyen's play stands alone among the four new works in representing a clearly defined environment and characters that seem to be a part of it.
''Marathon 2011: Series A'' continues through June 18 at the Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, second floor, Clinton; (866) 811-4111, ensemblestudiotheatre.org. (''Marathon 2011: Series B'' starts on Saturday and runs through June 25.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Romulus Linney's ''Tennessee,'' Kristen Lowman and Scott Sowers explore timeless Appalachia, at Ensemble Studio Theater.
 In Qui Nguyen's ''Bike Wreck,'' Arthur Acuna, left, and Charlie Hudson III represent minorities squeezed out of Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GERRY GOODSTEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); WRITERS (72%); MOUNTAINS (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1016 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Where 'Free' Costs a Lot

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
Travelers who signed up for a British Airways Visa card issued by JP Morgan Chase got a sweet deal in a recent promotion: 100,000 frequent flier miles after spending $2,000 with the card -- theoretically, enough for two free round-trip tickets between New York and London.
But those ''free'' tickets actually cost about $530 each, in addition to the 50,000 miles per ticket, because the airline passed along taxes, fees and a $350 fuel surcharge. 
Although many carriers charge passengers flying with award tickets some government taxes and fees, foreign airlines are increasingly adding fuel surcharges to the bill, a practice that has not caught on yet in the United States.
''I suppose one way of looking at it is that's good news for Americans,'' said Tim Winship, publisher of FrequentFlier.com. ''Our hometown carriers thus far have been leery of going down that road, but that could certainly change.''
Delta Airlines did experiment with a fuel surcharge on award tickets in 2007, but dropped the fee in 2008 when competitors did not follow suit and oil prices declined.
Paul Skrbec, a Delta spokesman, said the airline continued to monitor this policy as oil prices hovered around $100 a barrel, but was not currently assessing a fuel surcharge on domestic or international awards.
That does not mean passengers traveling on frequent flier tickets with American airlines are exempt from other fees, particularly when traveling abroad.
On United, an economy-class award ticket between New York and London costs $174 plus 55,000 miles, mostly because of British and United States government taxes that United passes along. For that same itinerary, American charges $169 and 40,000 miles and Delta charges $172 plus 60,000 miles -- though on all three airlines, the fees and the miles required can be higher depending on the date of travel, class of service and whether a connection is involved.
Still, those fees add up to far less than the fuel surcharges collected by some foreign carriers -- among them British Airways, Air Canada, Lufthansa, Virgin Atlantic and All Nippon Airways -- when passengers redeem miles for flights.
''British Airways is the poster child for assessing what I would consider to be egregious fuel surcharges on award tickets,'' Mr. Winship said. ''But they're not alone.''
John Lampl, a spokesman for British Airways, said the airline began imposing a fuel surcharge in 2004 -- a $4 per flight fee that had been adjusted (mostly upward) as fuel prices had risen and occasionally declined. It applies to paid tickets as well as frequent flier awards, and is calculated based on the class of travel and the length of the flight.
''We'd be out of business if we didn't do it,'' Mr. Lampl said. ''When the cost of fuel escalates we have to pass it on.''
One way travelers have found to dodge this fee is to use their frequent flier miles on a partner carrier that does not impose a fuel surcharge, since miles earned on one carrier can often be redeemed for flights on a partner within the same global alliance.
''I used my 100,000 British Airways miles for four domestic round-trip tickets on American Airlines at 25,000 miles each,'' said Rick Ingersoll, a retired mortgage banker who offers advice on traveling for free at FrugalTravelGuy.com.
Besides fuel surcharges and government taxes, other fees associated with redeeming frequent flier tickets have been increasing in recent years, as airlines have relied on a la carte charges to offset higher oil prices.
American, Delta and US Airways charge $150 to change an award ticket, while other carriers typically charge about $75 to $100. It costs roughly the same amount to cancel an itinerary and redeposit the miles back in your account -- although these and many other fees are often reduced or waived for elite members of an airline's frequent flier program.
The fee to book an award ticket by phone instead of online can run as high as $30 on US Airways ($15 to $25 is the norm). US Airways also charges an ''award processing fee'' of $25 to $50 per ticket, a fee most other carriers do not impose.
But given that Web booking tools for frequent flier tickets do not always display all the available options for award seats, particularly on partner carriers, Mr. Winship said the phone booking fee was sometimes worth challenging.
''I have heard from people who were able to get the phone fee waived by explaining to the agent, 'Listen you people have forced me to make this phone call because your Web booking application doesn't include the availability of partner award seats, and I really feel strongly you should waive the phone fee,' '' he said. ''But that's something you have to take the initiative to bring up -- and hope that you get a sympathetic agent.''
Another charge that surprises many frequent fliers is a fee to book an award ticket at the last minute, which airlines generally consider to be within three weeks before the start of a trip. That charge ranges from $50 to $100, but is more inconsistent among airlines. Delta dropped this fee last year, while United will begin charging a $75 fee on June 15 for award tickets booked less than 21 days before departure. (Elite members of its MileagePlus program will get a discount.)
Many airlines have also imposed fees to use frequent flier miles to upgrade a paid ticket, which can be hundreds of dollars for an international flight.
Although there is no publicly available data on how much airlines collect in award fees, Mr. Winship pointed out that it was high enough to make the idea of a ''free ticket'' obsolete.
''The notion that these tickets ought to be free has persisted long past the time when they actually were free,'' he said. ''The language hasn't caught up with the reality yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A British Airways jet at Heathrow Airport. The company has been adding fuel surcharges since 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN STANSALL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); TRAVEL TICKETS (79%); LOYALTY MARKETING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); TRAVELERS COS INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (57%); AIR CANADA (57%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (57%); ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO LTD (52%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); TRV (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); AC.A (TSX) (57%); LHA (FRA) (57%); ANA (LSE) (52%); 9202 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1017 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths STEWART, JOHN MACKENZIE

 BODY:
STEWART--John MacKenzie, 79, died peacefully at home on May 19, 2011. Born in Glen Cove, NY, in 1932, he graduated from Yale University ('53) and Harvard Business School ('57). He served in the US Navy from 1953 - 1955 and as a program manager for TRW's Saturn missile project. In 1961 he joined McKinsey & Company where for 37 years, he dedicated himself to client service. In addition, he served on the Defense Science Board, Yale University Council, National Council on Economic Education and as Executive Director of the US National Commission on Productivity. 
Most recently, he was a trustee of NYU Medical Center, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute and on the Dean's Advisory Council at Boston University School of Medicine. He also consulted with a Gates Foundation initiative to reduce HIV/AIDS in India. John's many civic commitments reflected his lifelong interest in the intersection of management with science and economics, and a deeply held belief in "giving back". Even his love of flying became a way to help others through Angel Flights. John was a great human being. He brought integrity, creativity and compassion to every endeavor with family, with friends and with professional colleagues. He had a unique way of guiding those around him to new and deeper insight. And he was a lot of fun to be around. He loved his family: his wife, Eliot; their four children: Diane Stewart, Sandi Stewart, Ian Highet and Eliot Patty; and nine grandchildren: Anna, Colin, Ali, Dash, Gil, Lisa, Andrew, Liam and Eliza. Services will be held at the Yale Club on Sunday, June 19 at 4:30pm, reception following. In lieu of flowers, donations can be sent to: John Stewart Memorial Fund, Amyloid Research Program, Boston Univ. School Of Medicine, 72 E. Concord St., Boston, MA 02188 or Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, Fenno House, Woods Hole, MA 02543.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (75%); NAVIES (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); AIDS & HIV (70%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (69%); FOUNDATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL COUNCIL ON ECONOMIC EDUCATION (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1018 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: House Prices Are Set to Hit Another Low

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The desire to own your own home, long a bedrock of the American Dream, is fast becoming a casualty of the worst housing downturn since the Great Depression.
Even as the economy began to fitfully recover in the last year, the percentage of homeowners dropped sharply, to 66.4 percent, from a peak of 69.2 percent in 2004. The ownership rate is now back to the level of 1998, and some housing experts say it could decline to the level of the 1980s or even earlier.
Disenchantment with real estate is bound to swell further on Tuesday when the most widely watched housing index is all but guaranteed to show that prices of existing homes sank in March below the lows reached two years ago -- until now the bottom of the housing crash. In February, the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index of 20 large cities slumped for the seventh month in a row.
Housing is locked in a downward spiral, industry analysts say, not only because so many people are blocked from the market -- being unemployed, in foreclosure or trapped in homes that are worth less than the mortgage -- but because even those who are solvent are opting out. 
''The emotional scars left by the collapse are changing the American psyche,'' said Pete Flint, chief executive of the housing Web site Trulia. ''There was a time when owning a home was a symbol you had made it. Now it's O.K. not to own.''
Trulia, a real estate search engine for buyers and renters that is based here, is a hive of renters, including Mr. Flint. ''I'm in no rush at all to buy,'' he said. He expects homeownership to decline further to about 63 percent, a level the country first achieved in the mid-1960s.
Tim Hebb, a Los Angeles systems engineer, expertly called the real estate bubble. He sold his bungalow in August 2006, then leased it back for a year. Since then, the 61-year-old single father has rented a succession of apartments.
''I have flirted with buying again many times over the past few years,'' said Mr. Hebb. ''Let's face it, people are not rational creatures.''
But he always resists, figuring housing is still overpriced and even when it stops declining it will stumble along the bottom for years and years. He says there is plenty of time to get back in if he should ever want to.
The market signaled further trouble on Friday when the April index of pending deals was released by the National Association of Realtors. Analysts had predicted the index, which anticipates sales that will be completed in the next two months, would be down 1 percent from March. Instead, it plunged 11.6 percent.
Many of those in the business of building and selling houses believe the current disaffection with real estate will pass. After every giddy boom comes the hangover, they acknowledge, but that deep-rooted desire for a castle of one's own quickly reasserts itself.
''There's no question that people are reticent to own,'' said Douglas C. Yearley Jr., chief executive of Toll Brothers, the builder of high-end homes. ''They're renting and they're happy renting because they're scared.''
Yet those fears will fade, he predicted.
''Most people still want the big house with the big lot in the desirable school district in the suburbs. No one ever renovated the kitchen or redid a room for the kids in a rental,'' Mr. Yearley said. ''I think -- I hope -- we'll be O.K.''
The market's persistent weakness, however, runs the risk of feeding on itself. Buyers are staying away despite the lowest interest rates and the highest affordability levels in many years, which in turn prompts others to hesitate.
Trulia and another real estate site, RealtyTrac, commissioned Harris Interactive to take a poll last November about when people thought the market would recover. A third of the respondents chose 2014 or later. But in a new poll, released this month, the percentage giving that answer rose to 54 percent.
The sharp decline in prices since 2006 has meant a lost decade for many owners. But what may prove even more discouraging to potential buyers is academic research showing that the financial rewards of ownership were uncertain even before the crash.
In a recent paper, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City found that the notion that homeownership builds more wealth than investing was true only about half the time.
''For many households in many years, renting and investing the saved cash flow has built more wealth than homeownership,'' the economist, Jordan Rappaport, concluded.
Economics affects potential owners in other ways. A house is a long-term commitment that many are loath to make in uncertain times like these.
''What I'm hearing from people is that they don't want to be tied to a particular geography, which inclines them to renting,'' said Mr. Flint of Trulia.
San Francisco is one of the country's most expensive cities, so renting has a natural appeal here. But the Associated Estates Realty Corporation, which owns 13,000 apartments in Georgia, Indiana, Michigan and other Midwest and Southeast states, also is seeing more people deciding to rent.
''We have more of what we call 'renters by choice' than I've seen in the 40 years I've been in the apartment business,'' said Jeffrey I. Friedman, chief executive of Associated Estates.
For decades, the company has asked former tenants why they were moving out. During the housing boom, as many as a quarter of those moving on said they were buying a house. In 2009, the percentage of new owners fell in the first quarter to 13.7 percent, the lowest ever.
Last year, as the economy improved, the number rebounded. This year, it fell back again, to 14 percent.
Builders clearly believe that the future includes many more renters. So far this year, construction of multiunit buildings is up 21 percent compared with 2010, while single family-homes are down 22 percent. Sales of new single-family homes are lower than at any time since the data was first kept in 1963.
Susan Lindsey, a San Diego software programmer, was once eagerly waiting for the housing market to crash. She said she would have no guilt about swooping in on some foreclosed owner who had bought a place he could not afford.
With prices now down by a third, however, she is content to stay in her $2,500-a-month rented house. She prefers to invest in gold, which she has been buying since 2003.
''I could afford a median-priced house, no problem,'' said Ms. Lindsey, 48, as she headed off for a holiday weekend in Las Vegas. ''But I would be paying more to live in a place I like less.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tim Hebb, a Los Angeles systems engineer, sold his bungalow in August 2006 and has since rented a succession of apartments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: A Downward Trend: The homeownership rate is now back to the level of 1998. (Source: Census Bureau) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); FORECLOSURE (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

COMPANY: TRULIA INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: TRLA (NYSE) (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1019 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Pays, For Adviser Class

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and LISA LEE

 BODY:
Bankruptcy beats bailouts in the land of Hermes ties and wingtips. So far, the bankers, lawyers and other advisers from the 44 firms that are helping wind down defunct Lehman Brothers have raked in $1.2 billion. That's more than the combined post-rescue fees paid by some of the biggest recipients of federal aid during the crisis.
Take Citigroup, for example. It needed $45 billion of taxpayer funds to stay afloat. It paid some back to the Treasury. But the government appointed Morgan Stanley to oversee the sale of its $25 billion common equity stake -- and handed over $69 million in fees for the effort. 
Then there's General Motors, which needed $50 billion from the government before converting much of it, and union and bondholder debts, into equity. Banks earned a cut-rate 0.75 percent fee on the automaker's initial public offering last year. But the deal still added up to almost $135 million for the banks, led by Morgan Stanley and JP Morgan.
The hobbled American International Group has been even more lucrative for financiers. The combined tally for the $8.7 billion A.I.G. stock sale last week, the spinoff of American International Assurance and the sale of Alico to MetLife comes to an estimated $600 million. Add the fee costs of the three rescues and they account for just two-thirds of the Lehman tab so far.
Of course, Lehman's cost to the economy dwarfs all. That might sound like an argument for always choosing bailouts over bankruptcy. But moral hazard serves as a reminder that firms should be allowed to fail -- in a more controlled way than Lehman did. Federal regulators are still wrestling with how to impose such resolution authority after Congress set out a bare-bones framework in last year's financial reform legislation.
A well-structured template would help prevent the broader panic that ensues when a large institution collapses, and should ultimately reduce the amount of aid the government needs to pump into the system. It also should cut down on the man-hours required to cope with the complexity, yet still leave plenty of work for fee-hungry advisers.
Surviving Inflation
Fickle weather, decreasing farmland and more mouths to feed are pushing up prices of wheat and other important ingredients and soft commodities. Companies feeding the hungry masses are running out of places to slash costs and increasingly being forced to pass the inflation on to customers to avoid smaller profits. Big brands and active market leaders, like McDonald's and Pepsi, stand to best survive the storm.
Some early evidence seems to favor the brave. J. M. Smucker has been leading the way, raising the price of Folgers coffee. A jar that sold for $4 a year ago now costs $5.20, a 30 percent increase. A rival, Kraft, typically has taken longer to raise prices in this category, but Smucker's shares have performed better despite-- or, maybe because of -- the aggressive moves.
Pepsi also shocked markets this year when it jacked up forecasts for commodity inflation to roughly double what rivals like Coca-Cola were expecting. But competitors have slowly come around, and in the meantime Pepsi shares have outperformed theirs.
The cost adversity also puts market leaders in position to throw their weight around. McDonald's, for example, plans to invest $1 billion over the next few years to remodel about 5,000 restaurants. A nicer atmosphere could help ease the pain of a costlier Big Mac. In the past, such redesigns have increased sales of established stores by 6 or 7 percent. Smaller rivals may not have such capital to invest to mask their costlier meals.
History also favors the titans. During the last big global food inflation, in 2007-8, General Mills raised prices and still gained impressive market share. With brands like Cheerios and Lucky Charms, the company surged from 16 percent of United States cereal sales to 26 percent in a year, according to IBISWorld, a market research company.
With the economy only wheezing back to life and jobs still hard to come by, consumers may not have as much of an appetite for higher prices as they had in previous downturns. But the companies big enough and bold enough to tackle the issue head-on seem nevertheless to have an edge in tough times.
ANTONY CURRIE and LISA LEE
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: J.M. Smucker has been quick to raise prices for items like Folgers coffee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (84%); LAWYERS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); BONDS (69%); COFFEE MARKETS (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE CO (55%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL ASSURANCE CO LTD (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%); 1299 (HKSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1020 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING ASIA; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Myanmar: Dissident to Leave City

BYLINE: By KEVIN DREW

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the most high-profile dissident in Myanmar, signaled on Monday that she would be seeking to broaden her audience in her country since being released from house arrest.
Speaking from Myanmar via a live video link to an audience at the University of Hong Kong, she confirmed that she would begin traveling outside of Yangon, the biggest city in Myanmar and its economic capital, a move that may test boundaries imposed on her since her release in November.
In 2003, during a period free from detention, Mrs. Aung San Suu Ky toured the country, drawing increasingly large crowds, and on one trip, a band of men attacked her convoy in what some people believed was an assassination attempt. She was then sent back to house arrest. 
On Monday she also urged the international community to reach out to the opposition movement in Myanmar by using modern communications technology.
In the months since her release from house arrest, Mrs. Aung San Suu Ky, recipient of the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize, has used video links and other means to connect with students and activists in Europe and North America.
''We can help each other now -- we now have the ability,'' she said after being asked how people outside of Myanmar could an engage with her and other pro-democracy activists inside her country.
Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi would not specify when or where she would travel, or even the purpose of her trips. But she pointedly noted on Monday that the government had not provided assurances of her safety and that she had made it clear that she expected the authorities to ensure her security.
''It is the duty of the government to provide assurances,'' she said.
Some Burmese dissidents have been hoping that Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi would take a more active political role.
Her supporters, while acknowledging the range of opinions within the democracy movement in Myanmar, described her decision to travel around the country as a natural progression.
''She is the leader of the democracy network, and that includes addressing issues such as social welfare, political prisoners, farmers' rights and civil rights lawyers,'' said Aung Din, executive director of the United States Campaign for Burma, a lobbying group. ''She is the leader of a broader civil society movement.''
The military has ruled Myanmar since 1962, and the elections in November were advertised as a ''road map to democracy.'' In March, a civilian government was installed under President Thein Sein, but analysts say little has changed inside Myanmar since the elections.
The new government has done little to end abuses across Myanmar, said Tomas Ojea Quintana, the U.N. special rapporteur on human rights in Myanmar.
Speaking by telephone, Mr. Quintana listed several areas in which the new government failed to make any significant progress, noting land confiscation, forced labor, internal displacement of people, extrajudicial killings and sexual violence against women.
''These problems remain widespread and unaddressed,'' said Mr. Quintana, who in May visited Thailand for a week to speak with refugees from Myanmar.
The Myanmar government has refused entry to Mr. Quintana.
He said he was preparing a report to present to the U.N. General Assembly this year.
Likewise, little progress has been made to confront what has been described as rampant corruption of the Myanmar economy.
It has been ''a little disappointing,'' Sean Turnell, professor of economics at Macquarie University in Sydney, said of the new government's response to initiating economic reforms. The military remains by far the largest expenditure in Myanmar, at about 25 percent of the budget, he said.
''That is causing all sorts of distortion to the economy, and creating a very serious budget deficit,'' he said. ''But the government's response to budget deficits has been to print more money, which has led to the highest rate of inflation in Southeast Asia.''
Mr. Turnell said, for example, that he had expected the government to address the gap between the official exchange and market rates of Myanmar's currency, the largest such gap in the world. The official exchange rate is 6 kyat to the U.S. dollar, while on the market, a dollar exchanges for 350 kyat, Mr. Turnell said. No action has been taken, he said.
''Economic reform is really going to run up against vested interests,'' he said, pointing to a relatively few number of oligarchs who command most of the business enterprises in Myanmar.
The address on Monday by Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi was preceded by a videotaped speech from her. In it, she emphasized the need for education and described people as ''learners and nonlearners.''
When asked later how she would describe the military establishment in Myanmar, she said, ''I would say they are not very fast learners.''
When asked by a student how she has managed to maintain her conviction in principles, she was blunt: ''Discipline. That's how I managed to live in isolation and keep my faith.''
Under house arrest for 15 of 21 years before her release in November, she spoke on Monday of maintaining simplicity in her daily life.
''I've learned to be happy with small things,'' she said. ''You have to learn to be happy with small things.''
When asked by a female student at Hong Kong University about the role of women in politics in Myanmar, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi said many women were playing roles inside her party, the National League for Democracy.
Then she smiled, adding ''sometimes I think they are more helpful than men.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSE ARREST (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); LOBBYING (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); ASSASSINATION (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); THEIN SEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1021 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Euro Weakens as Greece Struggles With Austerity

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The euro weakened for the first time in three days versus the dollar, while oil and copper fell in New York on concern that European governments would struggle to resolve the region's debt crisis amid a slowing global recovery.
The yield gap between Portuguese and German 10-year bonds climbed to a record and Italian yields rose as the government sold debt. 
Crude oil slid 0.2 percent, copper futures broke a four-day winning streak and wheat sank 4.7 percent in Paris. The Stoxx Europe 600 index lost 0.1 percent as shares of two electricity companies fell after the German coalition government led by Chancellor Angela Merkel endorsed a plan to close all atomic power plants by 2022.
The markets in the United States were closed for Memorial Day, while markets in Britain were closed for a bank holiday.
Prime Minister George Papandreou of Greece said he would press ahead with new austerity measures after failing to win backing from the main opposition parties as he raced to keep bailout money flowing and avoid default.
Greece ''will be the focus this week, whether they can agree on the austerity conditions that are required,'' Tim Condon, head of Asia research at the ING Group, said in a Bloomberg Television interview from Hong Kong. Doubts about the global economy will first ''hit the peripheral European debt crisis countries,'' he said.
The euro slipped 0.3 percent, to $1.4277, and fell 0.1 percent, to 115.57 yen, late Monday afternoon.
Antonis Samaras, leader of Greece's biggest opposition party, New Democracy, rejected an austerity plan at a meeting with Mr. Papandreou and other opposition leaders in Athens.
European Union officials have called for political parties in Greece to agree on a package that calls for an additional 6 billion euros ($8.6 billion) of budget cuts and a plan to speed 50 billion euros of state asset sales before more aid is approved.
Oil for July delivery slipped to $100.38 a barrel in New York, and copper for July delivery dropped 0.5 percent. Wheat futures fell 4.7 percent after Russia said on Friday that it would let a grain export ban expire July 1, increasing supply as drought and flooding threaten crops in Europe.
Seventeen stocks advanced for every 16 that declined in the Stoxx 600. Shares of Germany's largest utilities, E.ON and RWE, fell after Mrs. Merkel's coalition said it would maintain a tax on nuclear plants while phasing out the power source.
Alternative energy stocks gained. Vestas Wind Systems, a wind turbine manufacturer, climbed 2.7 percent and the Renewable Energy Corporation gained 3.7 percent.
Canadian stocks rose for a fourth day as higher natural gas prices drove up energy shares and raw materials producers posted a sixth straight advance.
Equinox Minerals, which mines copper in Africa, rallied 4.5 percent on the Toronto Stock Exchange after sinking 6.1 percent on Friday. Cameco, the world's largest uranium producer, lost 3.3 percent after the nuclear energy announcement from Germany.
The Standard & Poor's/TSX composite rose 32.07 points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,829.66. Stocks also gained after Canada's first-quarter economic growth accelerated to the fastest pace in a year.
The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong eked out a 0.3 percent rise on Monday to close at 23,184.3, recovering from last week's losses.
The Shanghai composite fell 0.1 percent, but a rally in large-cap banking shares helped limit declines. The Nikkei 225 closed down 16.97 points, or 0.18 percent, at 9,504.97.
The MSCI emerging markets index rose for a third straight session, gaining 0.1 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific index fell less than 0.1 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); EURO (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (88%); FUTURES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); COPPER MARKETS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BONDS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); WHEAT MARKETS (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); WIND ENERGY (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); COPPER MINING (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); COPPER INDUSTRY (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); APPROVALS (67%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); TURBINE MFG (62%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (50%); EXPORT CONTROLS (50%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (56%); E.ON SE (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); VESTAS WIND SYSTEMS AS (51%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (56%); INGA (AMS) (56%); ING (NYSE) (56%); EOAN (FRA) (56%); EOAN (BIT) (56%); VWS (CPH) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (56%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3511 STEAM, GAS, & HYDRAULIC TURBINES & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE PAPANDREOU (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) GREECE (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (92%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1022 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 998 words

PERSON: Bill Clements 

HEADLINE: Bill Clements Dies at 94; Set Texas on G.O.P. Path

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Bill Clements, a brash oilman who founded an international drilling company before going into politics and breaking the Democrats' stranglehold on the Texas governor's office in 1978, died Sunday at a Dallas-area hospital. He was 94.
His family said he died a day after emergency surgery to repair a perforated intestine. His daughter, Nancy Clements Seay, said he had also been treated for prostate cancer and had been in declining health while mourning the killing of his 69-year-old son, whose body was found last October near the son's East Texas ranch. 
Mr. Clements, the first Republican governor of Texas since Reconstruction, became involved in politics in the late 1960s after rising from oilfield roughneck to become a wealthy partner in a large offshore drilling company, Sedco. He was a leader in the Republican insurgency that began to chip away at the power that conservative Democrats had wielded in Texas for more than 100 years.
After his death, Gov. Rick Perry called Mr. Clements ''the father of the modern-day Texas Republican Party.''
His two separate terms in office -- 1979-83 and 1987-91 -- marked a sea change in Texas politics, preparing the way for Republicans to take the governor's office in Austin with the elections of George W. Bush and later Mr. Perry.
''That's a historic change, and I guess I'd like to say that I put a brick in place to bring that about,'' Mr. Clements told The Houston Chronicle in 1990.
He sought elected office after serving as deputy secretary of defense under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford, earning a reputation as a fierce manager who pushed the Pentagon to use new technology to modernize the armed forces and who rarely lost a battle over financing with Congress.
In 1978, he came back to Texas to run what was seen as a quixotic campaign for governor. But the Democrats were split after a nasty primary, and Mr. Clements narrowly defeated their candidate, John Hill. He spent more than $7 million of his own money and portrayed himself as a self-made millionaire who would bring a businessman's no-nonsense style to the job. The upset victory opened the door for other Republicans to win statewide office and encouraged some conservative Democrats to switch parties.
In 1982, Mr. Clements lost to a Democrat, Mark White, and remarked, ''Hell, I've drilled dry wells before.'' Four years later, he returned for a rematch and, tapping anger over a faltering economy, won a second term with 52 percent of the vote.
In Austin, Mr. Clements cut a colorful figure, favoring plaid sport coats, driving a brown Mercury station wagon to work and often walking to a bar on Congress Avenue for a hamburger lunch.
''He thought of himself as an entrepreneur,'' his daughter said. ''He never thought of himself as a politician.''
Known for his outspokenness, he had a tendency to say things that infuriated various constituents. He once said that scuba diving -- which had been found to be dangerous for a fetus -- might be a good form of birth control. In 1979, when a Mexican oil spill threatened the South Texas coast, he advised residents not to ''cry over spilt milk.'' (His company, it turned out, had leased equipment to the well operators.)
During his first term, he was frustrated in his goal of eliminating 25,000 state jobs, mostly because the Republicans had only 26 seats in the 181-member Legislature. Still, he won passage of a series of anticrime measures, including stiffer drug penalties, and vetoed 51 bills during the first session as he pared the budget.
During his second term, he steered the state through a crippling oil bust and fought unsuccessfully to enact deep cuts in services before giving in to legislative leaders and signing a record tax increase. Devoted to historic preservation, he was instrumental in the restoration of the Governor's Mansion and the Capitol. But he was hampered by revelations in March 1987 that he and other members of the Board of Regents at Southern Methodist University in Dallas had approved paying football players from a slush fund created by a booster. He later apologized for his role in the scandal, which led to the cancellation of the football season, but it damaged his chance of re-election, and he bowed out of the race in 1990.
William Perry Clements Jr. was born on April 13 1917, and grew up in a wealthy Dallas suburb. But his father lost his job and most of his wealth in the Great Depression, forcing Mr. Clements to work in the oilfields to pay for college. He attended Southern Methodist University, where he studied engineering and played football, but he never completed a degree, returning instead to jobs on oil rigs and becoming fascinated with drilling technology.
After serving in the Army Corps of Engineers in World War II, he and two partners bought two old drilling rigs in a venture called Southeastern Drilling Company. Over the next two decades, Mr. Clements ran the company as it grew to become Sedco, one of the world's largest offshore drilling concerns and a technical leader in underwater drilling. Schlumberger bought out the company in 1984.
In his later years, he and his second wife, Rita Crocker, divided their time between an estate in Forney, Tex., just east of Dallas, and a ranch in Taos, N.M. He became a philanthropic force in Dallas, establishing a Center for Southwest Studies at S.M.U. and donating $100 million to the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas.
In addition to Ms. Seay, his daughter from a previous marriage, he is survived by his wife.
In October, his son, B. Gill Clements, was found shot to death and buried in a shallow grave behind a home adjacent to his ranch south of Dallas. He had apparently been shot by a neighbor who was known for using an assault weapon to guard his property. The neighbor was killed in a shootout with the authorities.
Ms. Seay said her father had been shattered by the killing. ''It was a time of great grief for him,'' she said. ''They were very close.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Clements in 1986. After a 1982 defeat, he said, ''Hell, I've drilled dry wells before.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); PROSTATE DISEASE (72%); MEN'S HEALTH (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); PROSTATE CANCER (56%)

RICK PERRY (78%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011



1023 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Hooked on Meat

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The human urge to eat meat may be primal, but we can't afford to wait for it to evolve in the other direction.

 BODY:
KAS, TURKEY - I sit on this peaceful peninsula marveling at how long it's been since Odysseus sailed the eastern Mediterranean. Then I realize that those millennia are nothing compared with how long our species might take to adapt to the inexorable spread of the American diet.
Once, we had to combine hunting skills and luck to eat meat, which could supply then-rare nutrients in large quantities. This progressed - or at least moved on - to a stage where a family could raise an annual pig and maybe keep a cow and some chickens. Quite suddenly (this development is no more than 50 years old, even in America), we can drive to our nearest burger shop and scarf down a patty - or two! - at will.
Because evolution is a slow process, this revolutionary change has had zero impact on the primal urge that screams, "Listen, dummy, if you can find meat you'd better eat it, because who knows when you'll eat it again!" At some point our bodies may adapt to consuming unlimited quantities of meat or - a better alternative - our minds will crave less. Right now, primal urge and modern availability form a deadly combo.
We're crack addicts with a steady supply. Beyond instinct and availability, there's a third factor: marketing. When you add "It's what's for dinner" to the equation, you have a powerful combination: biology, economics and propaganda all pushing us in the same direction.
Those who were born in mid-to-late 20th century America take this for granted; I grew up eating meat seven days a week, usually for lunch and dinner, sometimes for breakfast, too. But the phenomenon is global: there's more than twice as much meat available per person than there was in 1950. Citizens of most developed nations have gone down the same path, and as the poor become less so, they buy more meat, too.
Now, some European countries appear to be leading the way out of the abyss, not only with the food they call "biologically" produced (a term roughly equivalent to "organic") but in saner ways of eating, which start with cutting back on some animal products; Germans' per capita consumption of meat is down about 20 percent since 1990. (American meat consumption has dropped ever so slightly in recent years, most likely the result of a decline in income and an increase in both population and exports, which reduced supply and increased prices. Maybe conscious eating gets some credit also.)
As better-educated citizens of wealthier nations change direction, however, those whose opportunities and privileges have been delayed until now have every intention of catching up, not only by buying cars and TVs but by "enriching" their diet. Remember, it's our nature.
The extreme example is China, whose soaring meat consumption is dramatically affecting the global markets for corn, soy, poultry and pork. But even here in Turkey, which is hardly an economic miracle, the diet is rocketing into the 20th century, moving away from the traditional and toward the inevitable.
Turkey's diet was classic Mediterranean, of course, high in all kinds of plants, olive oil, some dairy (yogurt and feta, mostly) and a bit of fish, lamb or goat. Now it's a jumble: a rural grocery store I visited displayed American-style breakfast cereal and plenty of soda front and center, along with (good) local vegetables, industrially produced dairy, and a small supply of expensive, stylishly packaged legumes and grains. There was no fish, lamb or goat, but there were at least 10 cuts of beef and lots of chicken. (Chicken consumption has nearly tripled here in the last 20 years.)
As in much of the world, the local fish is mostly gone. A fish store had wild sea bass, a half-dozen farm-raised species, and a freezer full of commodity fish from elsewhere. A restaurant in Istanbul that had blown my mind 10 years ago with its local variety was offering wild turbot (decidedly not local) and swordfish, along with a few fish that the waiter kindly un-pushed: "These are from the farm," he said, "so why bother?"
As much as we like eating animals, naturally crave them and are encouraged by misinformation (often a better word than "marketing"), the waiter's advice - "why bother?" - holds true for at least 90 percent of the animal products we're offered, no matter what their form. They're produced badly, they cause immeasurable damage to both our bodies and the earth, and - compared with the real thing - they don't taste that good.
In limited quantities, meat is just fine, especially sustainably raised meat (and wild game), locally and ethically produced dairy and eggs, the remaining wild or decently cultivated fish.
No matter where we live, if we focused on those - none of which are in abundant supply, which is exactly the point - and used them to augment the kind of diet we're made to eat, one based on plants as a staple, with these other things as treats, we'd all be better off. We can't afford to wait to evolve.
This column appeared in print on June 2, 2011.
Visit my blog, where you can find out more about my columns, or what I just cooked. You can also join me on Facebook or Twitter.

        
Race, Sex and the Trials of a Young Explorer
        
The God-Science Shouting Match: A Response
        
Morals Without God?
        
Predators: A Response
        
The Meat Eaters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (89%); MEATS (89%); CONSUMPTION (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POULTRY (78%); MAMMALS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COCAINE (51%) Evolution; Fish; Meat; mediterranean; plants; Turkey; Economic Conditions and Trends; Mark Bittman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (78%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



1024 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: How to Succeed in (Show) Business: Broadway Season Box Office Up Nearly 6 Percent

BYLINE: PATRICK HEALY


HIGHLIGHT: Broadway had another billion-dollar season between late May 2010 and Sunday.

 BODY:
Broadway had another billion-dollar season between late May 2010 and Sunday, with shows grossing $1.08 billion - 5.9 percent more than the total for the 2009-10 season - and playing to more than 12.5 million people, according to the Broadway League, the trade group for theater owners and producers. That 2010-11 season attendance figure also reflects an increase of 5.4 percent over the previous season.
Musicals and plays on Broadway have proved to be hardy perennials on the economic landscape for the entertainment industry, with shows steadily filling the sector's 40 theaters in Manhattan. While commercial hits are something of a rarity - only 25 to 30 percent of new shows usually turn a profit - long-running blockbusters like "Wicked" and "The Lion King" have become reliable money-makers even in bad weeks for other shows, and new additions like "Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark" and "The Book of Mormon" have been selling strongly.
"The Book of Mormon" is proving to be a particularly intensifying hit: The critically acclaimed musical has broken the Eugene O'Neill Theater's house record every week since mid-April. Last week, for eight performances covering May 24-29, "Mormon" set its latest record of $1.169 million, or 119 percent of the maximum possible gross (due to sales of premium-price tickets, which are common for commercial productions).
The financial success of "Mormon" is also noteworthy because of the relatively small number of seats on sale at the O'Neill. It has 1,066 seats, compared to the largest theater on Broadway, the Foxwoods, which lists 1,930 seats and where "Spider-Man" grossed $1.324 million last week. The producers of "Mormon" have said that they chose the O'Neill, which has traditionally been more of a playhouse than a theater for big-budget musicals, because of its relatively intimate size and atmospherics.
Overall last week, Broadway plays and musicals grossed a total of $23.7 million, compared to $24.9 million for the previous week.

        
'Prepare Ye the Way of the Lord': 'Godspell' Revival Coming to Broadway
        
'Jerusalem' Gets Four-Week Extension on Broadway
        
Tony-Nominated Plays Reap Box-Office Benefits, and 'Spider-Man' Returns With a Bang
        
A Triple Bill by Woody Allen, Elaine May, Ethan Coen Heading to Broadway
        
Earning Power of 'Spider-Man' Undiminished 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); RELIGION (87%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%) Broadway; Broadway League; arts general; Theater

ORGANIZATION: Broadway League

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1025 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: City Is Faulted on Enforcement of Window Guards

BYLINE: CARA BUCKLEY


HIGHLIGHT: A report from the comptroller's office says there was poor follow-through on reports that apartments with young children were missing the guards.

 BODY:
An audit by the New York City comptroller's office has found deficiencies in the city's window-guard enforcement program, which prevents children from falling through open windows. 
The report used a sample of 632 window-guard violations out of the 37,148 that were examined by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development in the fiscal years of 2008 and 2009. 
Auditors found that nearly half of the violations were closed even though the department had not verified with tenants that the guards were installed; often the department's decisions were based solely on the landlords' promises that they had made the installations. Also, some of the violations were improperly closed, the report found, due to data-entry mistakes. 
Under the city's health code, landlords of buildings with three or more apartments must install window guards in units where a child younger than 11 lives, and, should tenants request it, also in common hallways.
Complaints about window guards are fielded and investigated by the Department of Health and forwarded to the Housing Department if there are violations.
The auditors from the comptroller's office found that the forwarding of 1,500 violations between departments had been delayed months, and that the Health Department did not systematically follow up on open violations or address complaints in the recommended three-day time period.
In statements, both the Health Department and the Housing Department noted that reported child falls from windows had been sharply reduced - there were five last year citywide, compared with 217 in 1976. 
Both departments contested aspects of the report. The Health Department said it had decreased its response time to complaints to one day in 2009 from three days in 2008 and the Housing Department said that tenants often denied inspectors access to their homes, preventing inspectors from verifying that window guards had indeed been installed.
Meanwhile, city legislation has been introduced that would streamline the implementation of the window-guard law by making the Housing Department solely responsible for its enforcement. 
Between 2001 and 2007, nine children died falling from windows, according to a report the Health Department issued in 2009.

        
Carnegie's Ousted Residents Agree: Film Has Sad Ending
        
Report Finds Problems in Housing Repair Program
        
Retirees Cash Checks From Beyond Grave, Inquiry Finds 
        
City Says Investigation Uncovers Illegal Apartments
        
Answers From a Window Cleaner, Part 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (92%); CHILDREN (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); AUDITS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%) City Comptroller; housing; Windows; Accidents and Safety; Falls; Department of Housing Preservation and Development (NYC); Government & Politics; Housing & Economy

ORGANIZATION: Department of Housing Preservation and Development (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1026 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: The Laziest Generation(s)

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Accusations of laziness have been levied against Kids These Days for decades upon decades.

 BODY:
Over the weekend I had an article on whether Generation Y -- loosely defined as people born between the mid-'70s and the early '00s -- deserved its reputation as the laziest generation ever (a topic I also blogged about last week).
Accusations of laziness have been levied against "kids these days" for decades, and I'd like to append a few examples to the article.
Here, for example, is an excerpt from a Newsweek article from 1993 complaining about Generation X:Growing up in the '70s and '80s, the twentysomethings were indulged with every toy, game and electronic device available. They didn't even have to learn how to amuse themselves since Mom and Dad were always there to ferry them from one organized activity to another. If we baby boomers were spoiled, the Whiny Generation was left out to rot. They had it all.
That's the essence of the Generation X problem. We have a generation (or at least part of a generation) whose every need has been catered to since birth. Now, when they finally face adulthood, they expect the gift-giving to continue.Before them were the baby boomers, who, as that Newsweek article noted, were widely seen as spoiled by their parents. This 1986 letter to the editor published in The Times, for example, proclaims that "The 60's generation was not into saving; they were not even into working."Musical theater dorks like myself will also recall that the 1960 production of "Bye Bye Birdie" had an entire song devoted adults' frustrations with the slacker youth of their day:Kids!I don't know what's wrong with these kids today!Kids!Who can understand anything they say?Kids!They are disobedient, disrespectful oafs!Noisy, crazy, dirty, lazy, loafers!And while we're on the subject:Kids!You can talk and talk till your face is blue!Kids!But they still just do what they want to do!Why can't they be like we were,Perfect in every way?What's the matter with kids today?Before these whippersnappers came the "Lost Generation," the listless generation of young people disillusioned by World War I and memorialized in "The Sun Also Rises." And so on.
When the economy is bad, older Americans are often quick to blame young people when they can't find jobs. Somehow when the economy is good, however, young people don't seem to get nearly the same degree of credit for their professional successes.

        
Are Young College Grads Too Lazy to Work?
        
Why Are the Middle-Aged Less Happy?
        
Tighter Wallets for All, Especially the Oldest
        
Which Generation Has It Worst?
        
There but for the Grace of Lehman...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GENERATION X (90%); GENERATION Y (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); MUSICAL THEATER (64%); MUSIC (64%); WORLD WAR I (50%) Baby Boomers; Generation X; Generation Y; work incentives; young people; Children and Youth

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1027 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Year-End Roundup | Social Studies, History, Geography and Civics

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Our lessons are on summer vacation, but here's a look back at social studies-related lessons from the 2010-11 school year.

 BODY:
The school year is drawing to a close, and our lesson plans have already gone on summer vacation. So this week we're looking back at the 2010-11 school year and collecting the year's teaching materials by subject matter, starting today with social studies, American history and civics, global history, economics and geography. 
Check back on Wednesday for science, health, technology and math and Thursday for language arts, literature, journalism and fine arts. (Even if those aren't your primary subject areas, you may want to take a look at those collections, as many of our lesson plans are cross-curricular or can be adapted easily for other subjects.)
We hope our resources have been useful to you this year, and as always, we welcome your stories and feedback. Did you use our materials, and if so, how did it go? Do you have suggestions for us? Please share your experiences and thoughts in the comment box below. 
Just like last year, this year saw major breaking news events that fairly begged to be addressed in history and social studies, particularly the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, the death of Osama bin Laden, the unrest in the Middle East, the publication of sensitive documents provided by WikiLeaks, the mass shooting in Arizona and the rescue of 33 miners in Chile. 
Among others, here are our lesson plans from the year in history and social studies. 
Big Topics
The Disaster in Japan: Teaching Ideas: The Earthquake and Tsunami in Japan 20 Ways to Teach About the Disaster in Japan Across the Curriculum 
 Teachers Respond to the Crisis in Japan
The Upheaval in the Middle East: Revolt! Comparing Historical Revolutions
 The Events in Libya: Using Reporting and Multimedia to Understand News
 Mapping Discord: Creating a Primer on the Arab World
 Ways to Teach About the Unrest in Egypt
 The Basics: Understanding the Upheaval in the Middle East
WikiLeaks: WikiLeaks and the War Logs: An Overview The Ethics of the War Logs: Debating the Pros and Cons of WikiLeaks State's Secrets: Teaching about WikiLeaks 
 Nine Years, 779 People: Guantanamo Bay and the Implications of the Files
The 2010 Midterm Elections: The Politics Game: Playing Midterm Election Bingo
 Strategy Session: Developing Campaign Plans for the 2010 Midterm Elections
 Predicting the Vote: Analyzing Election Data
 Political Polls and Pundits: Parsing the Midterm Election Results
Education and the Debate Over School Reform: What Does Change Look Like? Making Documentaries About School Schools of Thought: Localizing National Education Stories
United States History and Geography
 Contemplating Controversy: Considering the Proposed Islamic Center Near Ground Zero
 Blogging History: Interpreting Civil War Era Primary Sources
 What Really Happened? Comparing Stories of the First Thanksgiving
 Connecting the Dots: Interpreting U.S. Census Data
 Stories to Tell: Curating an African-American History Exhibition
 100 Years Later: Examining the Impact of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire
 One-Way Ticket? Exploring the Great Migration in Literature and the Arts
 Body of a Nation: Examining the Role of the Mississippi River in American History
United States Politics and Civics
 In Any Case: Conducting a Mock Trial
 Good Citizenship: Assessing Civics Knowledge and Education
 To Think, Perhance to Debating the Dream Act
 Contemplating Congress: Considering the Senate, House and the Role of Speaker
 Of Budgets and Bargaining: Putting the Union Protests Into Context
 One Size Fits All? Reflecting on the Role of Government 
 Candidates and Campaigns: Analyzing the 2012 Presidential Field 
Social Studies
 The Future Is Now: Analyzing and Making Predictions
 'A Troubling Trend': Discussing Bullying and Antigay Attitudes On Coming Out: Exploring the Stories of Gay Teenagers
 Confronted Challenges and Broken Barriers: Profiling Extraordinary Women From Dr. Spock to the Tiger Mother: Studying Parents and Families
 Mapping Happiness: Analyzing an Interactive About a Nation's Well-Being
Global History
 What Would Cleopatra Do? Drawing Lessons From History or Literature
 Marriage and the Monarchy: Lessons From the British Royal Family
 On the Brink: Teaching About Tension in North and South Korea
 One Year Later: Studying Post-Earthquake Haiti
 Eruption and Destruction: Curating and Exhibition on Pompeii
 Claiming Responsibility: Understanding the Rise and Popularity of Hitler
Acts of Remembrance: Reflecting on How the Holocaust Is Taught
Economics
 A Big Task: Attempting to Solve the National Deficit
 Deficit Discussions: Understanding Obama's Federal Budget Proposal
 Get With the Programs: Exploring the Implications of Federal Budget Cuts
 Onward and Upward? Documenting Local Economic Conditions
 A Tale of One City: Examining Urban Decay and Renewal
We also added several new social studies-related resource pages to our Teaching Topics collection, on the following topics: world religions
 world explorers 
 the Constitution
 Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War
 Father's Day, Thanksgiving and winter holidays
 the Gulf oil spill
 Hurricane Katrina
 women
 the 2010 midterm election
 the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq
 using NYTimes.com for research 
 bullying and cyberbullying 
service learning and community service
In addition, we started our Great Ideas From Readers series this year, which consists of interesting ways that teachers are using The New York Times with their students. These included activities for studying the United States Constitution, factories and sweatshops from the Industrial Revolution to the present day, population studies, bullying and global poverty.
And we restarted our popular, beloved and useful On This Day feature in addition to launching Test Yourself, which provides a once-weekly history question based on historical, and historic, New York Times articles.
What a year it has been.
We hope you will encourage your students to continue to track current events and breaking news over their school vacation. Please continue to check in with us over the summer and as you start your curriculum planning for the fall. As always, thank you for teaching with The New York Times.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (92%); HISTORY (91%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (87%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (87%); ELECTIONS (87%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ETHICS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); THANKSGIVING (73%); TSUNAMIS (71%); SHOOTINGS (66%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); POLITICS (65%); CENSUS (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (61%); RELIGION (50%) roundup; American History; Civics; Current Events; Economics; Geography; Global History; Lesson Plans; Social Studies; Teaching with The New York Times

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); CHILE (79%); EGYPT (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (70%); CUBA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1028 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Historical Society Snags a Founding Father's Notebooks

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS


HIGHLIGHT: Roger Hertog, the New-York Historical Society's chairman, bought two of John Lansing Jr.'s notebooks at auction for $902,500.

 BODY:
The New-York Historical Society, already the repository of several sets of original notes by delegates to the Constitutional Convention of 1787, received yet another last week: the notebooks of John Lansing Jr. of New York, who recorded many of the convention's debates. 
The two notebooks were bought at auction for $902,500 by Roger Hertog, the society's chairman, and donated to the society's library. They will be made available in digitized form and will go on public display Nov. 11, when the society's exhibition space on Central Park West reopens.
"With this magnificent gift, Roger Hertog has secured the New-York Historical Society's place of privilege as one of the two most important repositories in the world for scholarship and teaching around constitutional history, second only to the Library of Congress," said Louise Mirrer, president and chief executive of the Historical Society. 
Note-taking for publication was prohibited at the convention. While James Madison and several other delegates also took notes, many were subsequently edited and rewritten. 
Selby Kiffer, senior specialist for historic American manuscripts at Sotheby's, which auctioned the Lansing notebooks, described them as an unfiltered contemporary source of new and corroborative information about the constitutional debates.
Judge Lansing recorded debates over whether the Articles of Confederation should be merely revised or completely rewritten, on how many individuals should constitute the nation's chief executive and how the voting strength of the large and small states should be reconciled. "Lansing recorded speeches and discussions, assigning names and identifying positions, as the delegates participated in the give-and-take of debate," said Jean Ashton, the society's executive vice president and director of its library division. "Lansing became distressed that the meeting was going beyond its mandate in establishing a new government. Rather than simply amending the Articles of Confederation, as charged, Lansing and his fellow New Yorker Yates left the convention early, but not before he had participated actively and created this illuminating and highly significant record."
The notebooks were acquired from Judge Lansing's descendants by James S. Copley, the newspaper editor, who died in 1973. Already at the society are notes by Rufus King of Massachusetts and Pierce Butler of South Carolina.

        
Sotheby's to Offer a Founding Father's Illicit Notebooks
        
History, Nostalgia and Nullification
        
On the Road: A Milestone for Susan B. Anthony's House
        
Court Upholds Restriction on Fifth Avenue Parades
        
No Consensus on Financial Crisis's Legacy for City

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); HISTORY (90%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); POLITICS (78%); LIBRARIANS (76%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Constitution; John Lansing Jr.; New-York Historical Society; Sotheby's; Hertog, Roger; Auctions; Constitution (US); Libraries and Librarians; Philanthropy; Scholarships and Fellowships; Library of Congress; Sotheby's|BID|NYSE; Government & Politics; Highlights; Political History

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (91%) Library of Congress; New-York Historical Society; Sotheby's

TICKER: Sotheby's; BID; NYSE

PERSON: Hertog, Roger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1029 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.

 BODY:
A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.
The Salt Lake Tribune: As Utah's non-Mormon population soars, and with it alcohol consumption, restaurants struggle to cope with state laws requiring that bartenders be hidden from view. -- Sam Sifton
Men's Health: Five steps to the perfect sandwich, with sequential pictures, from Sisha Ortuzar of 'Wichcraft. Hints: scoop out the baguette; also, mix arugula and balsamic separately in a bowl, before layering onto the sandwich bread and stuff. -- Glenn Collins
Esquire: Weary of cupping a hand over your mouth when you go to a bar because you're not really sure how to pronounce the name of what's supposedly your favorite Scotch? Well, stop pointing and mumbling. In a video segment here, the actor Brian Cox helps you figure out how to say a whole bunch of them - and, as part of the bargain, he apparently gets to sip them all, too. - Jeff Gordinier
WSJ Magazine: On the coming of Miguel Sanchez Romera, whose Romera New York is set to open in the Dream Downtown hotel in June. The food? "Multicolored waters, served in tiny cordial stemware, warmed to just over body temperature and flavored with ingredients he'd bought at the farmer's market."-- Sam Sifton
The Guardian: The Dukan diet, the all-the-protein-you-want regimen that supposedly got the Duchess of Cambridge into her wedding dress, is said to cause health problems and be ineffective in the long term. Sound familiar? -- Nick Fox 
FIS: Scenes from the fish wars, as Scotland complains about marauding commercial fishermen from the Faroe Islands and their "outrageous mackerel grab." -- Sam Sifton
The Washington Post: With inflation soaring, Venezuelans are struggling with food prices, which are up more than 30 percent this year. -- Sam Sifton
Crain's New York Business: Despite efforts to get local foods into city schools, some of the apple sauce that's served to New York City schoolchildren comes from China. (Subscripton required.) -- Nick Fox
The Guardian: A history of honey by Oliver Thring. -- Nick Fox
Austin American-Statesman: Texas, too, seems to have caught veggie-burger fever. -- Jeff Gordinier
Harvard Business Review: Ferran Adria holds forth at length on his creative process (subscription required for full article). -- Glenn Collins

        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); FOOD PRICES (75%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); MEN (72%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (63%); CHILDREN (61%) What We're Reading

COMPANY: MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (58%); KEARNS-TRIBUNE LLC (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (76%); FAROE ISLANDS (74%); CHINA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1030 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Tuesday Reading: New Ways to Answer Hospital Patients' Calls

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: New systems for answering hospital patients' calls, hotels try to get in-room movies right, sleeping under the stars in Manhattan and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.

 BODY:
A variety of consumer-focused articles appears daily in The New York Times and online in our blogs. Each weekday morning, we gather them together here so you can quickly scan the news that could hit you in your wallet. Medicare will link cost to performance. (National) Housing prices expected to hit a new low. (Business) A renewed interest in protecting electronic medical information. (Business) Wal-Mart is asked to disclose how global suppliers treat workers. (Business) Hotels try to get in-room movies right. (Business) Fuel surcharges raise the price of "free" airplane tickets. (Business) New systems for responding to patients' hospital needs. (Well) A good night's sleep isn't a luxury, it's a necessity. (Science) U.S. tax rates historically low by some measures. (Economix) Sleeping under the stars at Manhattan hotels. (In Transit) Exercising and eating olives on the road. (Frugal Traveler)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); MEDICARE (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%) Best of Times

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1031 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Republicans May Need 'Exit Strategy' From Medicare Plan

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Is Representative Paul Ryan's budget plan unpopular?

 BODY:
Is Representative Paul Ryan's budget plan unpopular?
Most Democrats, especially after the results in the special election in New York last week, take this for granted. But some conservatives make the contrary case, and it's not one without merit. The Weekly Standard's Jeffrey H. Anderson, for example, finds that when questions about Mr. Ryan's budget are phrased in certain ways -- in ways which he considers to be more accurate -- they can draw plurality support. And as we noted last month, a Gallup poll conducted in April found voters about evenly split when asked whether they preferred Mr. Ryan's or President Obama's approach to the budget.
The question about whether Mr. Ryan's plan is popular right now, however, is not terribly important. Instead, what matters is the impact it could have with voters next November -- after both sides have exhausted their opportunity to make arguments about it. When viewed in this way, the budget could be problematic for Republican candidates.
Take last month's poll from the Kaiser Family Foundation, for example. It asked about a plan which, like Mr. Ryan's, would change Medicare to a system of private insurance plans, with the government providing a voucher toward the purchase of care. Initially, support for the plan split about evenly, with 46 percent preferring the changes and 50 percent preferring to keep Medicare as it is. That's not such a bad result for Republicans.
The problem is what happened when Kaiser read different arguments about the plan, arguments which resemble those which voters will hear over the next 18 months. To the 50 percent who were opposed to the plan originally, Kaiser recited a series of arguments that resemble those that Mr. Ryan himself is making: That the plan would reduce the deficit, that the plan would increase choice and that it would save Medicare from fiscal insolvency. Some respondents, 17 percent of those who were originally opposed to the plan, changed their mind after hearing these arguments.
Meanwhile, to the voters who originally supported the plan, Kaiser read another set of arguments, those which resemble the ones that Democrats are making. They said that the plan would increase health care costs and reduce benefits, would do too much to empower private insurance companies, and would "eliminate traditional Medicare." Upon hearing these arguments, 42 percent of voters who originally supported the plans changed their minds and said they were no longer in favor of it.
Democrats, in other words, seem to have the more persuasive side of the argument -- their case was more than twice as likely to change a voter's mind.
The Kaiser poll is not an isolated example. A poll last month from Democracy Corps, a Democratic firm, inquired about Mr. Ryan's overall approach to the budget (not just the Medicare provisions) in somewhat the same fashion. Initially, a 48-33 plurality of likely voters supported the plan. After being read a set of arguments both for and against it, however, a number of voters changed their mind and the plan was opposed 51-44.
Republican polling on the plan, according to Politico's Glenn Thrush and Jake Sherman, shows the same pattern:No matter how favorably pollsters with the Tarrance Group or other firms spun the bill in their pitch - casting it as the only path to saving the beloved health entitlement for seniors - the Ryan budget's approval rating barely budged above the high 30s or its disapproval below 50 percent, according to a Republican operative familiar with the presentation.If these poll results are right, they represent a lot of danger to Republicans because they suggest that voters' assessments of the Medicare proposal are not yet fully "priced in" to their views of the parties more broadly. Right now, most people aren't paying all that much attention to the budget debates or to domestic politics more generally. But they will tune in at some point between now and next November, and when they do they may find that the Republicans' approach to the budget is not to their liking.
It is in this context that interpretations of last week's special election in New York become more useful. It essentially represented an acceleration of political time, with voters in this one corner of the country hearing and acting upon arguments that they would not ordinarily begin to consider until late next year.
Was the special election a "referendum" on Medicare? In a literal sense, perhaps not; only about one-fifth of voters considered it to be their most important issue.
Because politics operates on the margins, however, that is potentially a large enough group to swing the political environment from being quite favorable to Republicans to quite favorable to Democrats. So the question is whether the strong result for Democrats in fact reflected a changed national environment or instead was due to idiosyncratic local circumstances.
It would be difficult to prove either proposition. Even in regular November elections, when the overall political environment (such as reflected by the national popular vote or generic Congressional ballot) is a known quantity, the results in individual House races can vary quite a bit from district to district. And they can vary even more in special elections, when turnout is lower and the broader political environment is not yet locked in.
But the results were more consistent with the hypothesis that the Medicare proposals are in fact problematic for Republicans than the competing hypothesis that they aren't.
Neither the polling on the Medicare issue nor the results in the special election are all that compelling unto themselves. Taken together, however (evaluated through the lens of Bayesian probability) they begin to make a fairly powerful case. A third piece of complementary evidence, arguably, is the generic Congressional ballot, which has shifted in the direction of Democrats in recent weeks.
Republicans, as I've noted, don't have the luxury of waiting until all the evidence is in before making some key strategic choices that could profoundly affect next year's elections. Suppose there is an 80 percent probability that the Medicare proposals are a significant problem for Republicans and 20 percent chance that they aren't. That might not meet an academic standard of statistical significance. But clearly, there is downside for Republicans if they make the wrong bet -- acting as though Mr. Ryan's proposal is acceptable to swing voters when it isn't, or vice versa -- so they have to play the odds.
If Republicans determine that they need an "exit strategy" from Mr. Ryan's proposals, it could produce significant collateral damage. All but 4 Republicans in the House, and all but 5 in the Senate, have already voted for the plan. An increasing number of their Presidential candidates, including Tim Pawlenty last week, have lent their endorsement to it, if not always without equivocation.
Still, staying the course has the potential to muddy their message on issues ranging from the national debt to the country's newest entitlement program, Barack Obama's health care bill -- precisely those issues that had initially appeared to play to their strengths. Conversely, although Republicans have endured a difficult month, economic indicators over the past several weeks have come in below economists' expectations, while future forecasts have been revised downward, creating further vulnerability for President Obama and the Democrats and perhaps arguing for a renewed Republican emphasis on Main Street concerns like the labor and housing markets.
So if extricating themselves from Mr. Ryan's plan might come at a significant cost for Republicans, it could also produce significant benefits.
Republicans are not without standing to argue that the Medicare proposals are not all that unpopular, that the special election was anomalous, or both. But there is mounting evidence to the contrary, and they ignore it at they own peril.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); INSURANCE (66%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (60%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1032 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2221 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
Madoff Victim Seeks Divorce Do-Over | When Steven Simkin and Laura Blank divorced and split their assets, the largest chunk of money was invested with Bernard Madoff, and Mr. Simkin is now suing to revise the deal.
While divorce agreements are generally ironclad and rarely rescinded, this challenge has now reached New York's highest court. Deeply divided appellate justices requested what is considered an unusual review of settled law involving contracts.
What made Mr. Simkin's call for a do-over even remotely possible was its roots in Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme.DealBook 
Keeping an Eye on the Ball | Lots of questions have been asked about David Einhorn's purchase of a minority stake in the Mets: Will his investment shore up the Mets' finances? (Maybe.) Does the deal allow him to take majority control of the Mets? (Yes.) And will he eventually take over the team? (Probably.)
But on Wall Street, a very different question is quietly being asked: Will Mr. Einhorn, one of the great value investors of his generation and an obsessive stock picker, take his eye off the ball? (Pun intended.) It is a question that invariably is raised whenever a wealthy financier seeks to live out his childhood fantasy by acquiring a professional sports team, a race horse or even a yacht.DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Ashland to Buy Rival for $3.2 Billion | Ashland, the chemicals company, said on Tuesday that it has agreed to buy International Specialty Products for $3.2 billion in cash. The deal "broadens Ashland's presence within attractive growth areas like skin, hair and oral care, which are large and fast-growing segments of the $5-billion-plus personal care specialty ingredients market," its chief executive, James J. O'Brien, said in a statement.DEALBOOK | PRESS RELEASE
VW Makes Formal Bid for MAN | Volkswagen on Tuesday made its plans for MAN official, saying it was bidding 95 euros a share for the portion of the truck maker it does not already own. VW hopes to combine MAN with Scania. The bid, which is below MAN's current share price of 96.71 euros, values the company at just under 14 billion euros.REUTERS
Fortis to Buy Vermont Utility for $470.3 Million | Fortis of Canada plans to buy Central Vermont Public Service, that state's biggest electric utility, in an effort to further expand into the United States.DealBook 
Canada to Bide Its Time on Chrysler Stake | Canada holds a 1.7 percent stake in Chrysler, but it is under no obligation to sell its shares to Fiat, in contrast to the United States government's arrangement to divest its 6 percent stake. Canada's finance minister, Jim Flaherty, said on Monday that he would "look out for good value for Canadian taxpayers," The New York Times reports.DealBook 
Japan's Trillions Lean Toward M.&A. | Japanese firms have announced more than $25 billion in outgoing deals this year, but that does not even begin to tap the $2.4 trillion in cash they hold in reserve, waiting for their chance as the yen rises against the dollar, and recession bites at home.BLOOMBERG NEWS
Regulator Seeks Answers From AT&T | The Federal Communications Commission has asked AT&T to provide more data on its proposed acquisition of T-Mobile, in particular its plans concerning spectrum shortages.REUTERS
Schneider to Buy Luminous of India | The French conglomerate that is reported to be in talks to take over Tyco International announced a separate and much smaller deal on Monday, saying that it would buy a controlling stake of Luminous Power Technologies. which makes inverters and power storage systems, for about 215 million euros.PRESS RELEASE
Frayed Tempers in the Luxury Sector? | LVMH is not trying to destabilize its smaller rival, Hermes, in which it has a 20 percent share, the luxury giant has said. The Hermes chairman, Bernard Puech, said in comments published Sunday that his company had been the target of "incessant attacks" by the larger firm.REUTERS | LE FIGARO (FRENCH)
European Union Opens Takeover Inquiries into Disk-Drive Deals | The European Union has decided to investigate two takeovers in the hard-disk drive business on competition concerns. Regulators are to decide by Oct. 10 whether to approve or block Seagate's $1.4 billion offer for a unit of Samsung Electronics and Western Digital's $4.3 billion bid for a Hitachi unit.REUTERS
Old Rivals Re-Enter Fray for TMX | With national and professional pride at stake, two one-time rivals, Luc Betrand and Thomas Kloet, have found themselves up against each other again, as the tussle over the fate of the Toronto Stock Exchange intensifies.WALL STREET JOURNAL
Atari Sells Cryptic Studios | Perfect World of China agreed to pay $49.8 million for Cryptic Studios, the maker of online games including Star Trek Online and Champions Online.VENTUREBEAT | PRESS RELEASE
South Korean Deal Site Acquires Online Shopper | Ticket Monster, a sort of South Korean Groupon, has expanded its reach with the acquisition of the Malaysian online shopping firm Integrated Methods. The deal site did not disclose the terms of the deal.REUTERS
Accor Set to Maintain Lenotre Ties | Accor, which has announced plans to spin off its high-end catering arm Lenotre, said that it would nonetheless seek to collaborate with the business after the separation.WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
How Libya Almost Became a Major Goldman Shareholder | After a disastrous excursion into currency bets decimated a $1.3 billion investment by Libya's sovereign wealth fund, Goldman Sachs offered the country the opportunity to become one of its largest shareholders in a effort to repair the relationship, The Wall Street Journal reports.WALL STREET JOURNAL | REUTERS
UBS Profits Off Discounts | In the often confusing world of investment banking, cutting prices, it seems, has led UBS directly to bigger returns, reversing a three-year downward trend for the lender, despite recent assaults on its secretive nature.WALL STREET JOURNAL
Britain May Sell R.B.S. Stake Next Year, Executive Says | John McCormick, the Royal Bank of Scotland's Asia Pacific chief, told Reuters he "suspects" that the British government will begin selling its 83 percent stake in the bank in 2012.
The bank also said on Monday that it had agreed to buy a one-third stake in a joint venture with the Chinese brokerage house Guolian Securities, putting R.B.S. in a position to help Western companies tap Chinese capital, and vice versa.REUTERS | BBC
Harbor Operator Hires Banks for Refinancing | Abu Dhabi Ports has brought HSBC and the National Bank of Abu Dhabi on board to advise on refinancing the debt that it took out to build the Khalifa Industrial Zone, which has cost the state-run port operator $7.2 billion to date.BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
PAI Partners to Sell Engineering Firm for $3 Billion | PAI Partners, the French buyout firm, has entered into a period of exclusivity with an investment group led by Clayton, Dubilier & Rice and AXA Private Equity to sell the engineering company SPIE for 2.1 billion euros.DealBook 
For Private Equity Investors, It's More About the Talent | When weighing which funds to invest in, 68 percent of limited partners said the team managing the pool was the most important factor and only 40 percent said that the firm's track record was "vitally important," according to a survey from the consulting firm Green Peak Partners.PEHUB
Carlyle Battles for Indonesian Firm | The Carlyle Group and Suntoy of Japan are the only two firms left in the race to purchase a $200 million, 30 percent stake in GarudaFood, Reuters reported.
A victory for Carlyle would be the private equity group's first clear investment in the Indonesian market, where rivals including TPG Capital and CVC Capital Partners have already made inroads.REUTERS
Axa and Permira Cleared for Online Travel Venture | The two private equity firms got the green light from European regulators for a deal that would allow Axa and Permira to jointly buy Opodo and combine it with their respective online travel agency holdings.BLOOMBERG NEWS | DOW JONES
HEDGE FUNDS 
A FrontPoint Founder Tries Again With a New Firm | Philip Duff, one of the founders of the FrontPoint hedge fund group, is starting a new firm, Massif Partners, to offer services to pension funds.DealBook 
A Meat-and-Potatoes Kind of Investor | Unlike some of his more well-known counterparts, like John Paulson or William Ackman, Martin Sass does not make bold or complicated plays. Instead, he has built up his $8 billion investment firm through old-fashioned bargain-hunting.NEW YORK TIMES
Is R.I.M. Ripe for Activism? | Research In Motion is struggling to turn around its waning fortunes as investors begin to lose faith. Bing Gordon of Kleiner Perkins said he expected "the Maple Leafs to win a Stanley Cup before R.I.M. builds a Mo. 1 phone."
Now industry observers are betting that a deep-pocketed activist like Carl C. Icahn or William Ackman will step into the fray.REUTERS
Myners to Become Cevian's British Chairman | Paul Myners, who served as the financial services secretary under former Prime Minister Gordon Brown, has been tapped to chair the activist hedge fund's British operations.FINANCIAL TIMES | PENSIONS & INVESTMENTS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
In I.P.O. Price Debate, an Investment Giant Weighs In | BlackRock, the money management giant, has sent a letter to British regulators arguing that banks intentionally overprice initial public offerings to raise higher fees.DealBook 
Samsonite to Seek $1.5 Billion in I.P.O. | The luggage maker controlled by CVC Capital Partners has reportedly set an indicative price range for its Hong Kong initial public offering of 13.50 Hong Kong dollars to 17.50 dollars apiece. CVC, which in 2007 paid $1.7 billion for all of Samsonite, now only holds a 54.3 percent stake in the firm.DEALBOOK | WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O. Rush a Boon for Law Firms | The AM Law Daily gives a round-up of some the latest law firms to benefit from the current wealth of initial public offerings. Those making hay while the sun shines include Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati and Clifford Chance.AM LAW DAILY
Russian Airport Operator Grounds I.P.O. | DME, the company that operates Moscow's Domodedovo airport, has postponed an initial public offering that could have raised as much as $1 billion.MOSCOW TIMES | REUTERS
Too Many Banks Spoil the Offering | There is a correlation between the number banks consulted in any offering over $250 million and the kind of returns the company that is listing should expect. It turns out that in this case, less often means more, according to data from Dealogic.WALL STREET JOURNAL
Zillow Seeks to Break N.Y.S.E.'s Hold on Single-Letter Tickers | The online real estate company Zillow, which is hoping to raise as much as $52 million in an initial public offering, has applied to list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the letter Z, a move that would make Zillow the first Nasdaq company with a single-letter symbol.BLOOMBERG NEWS | GLOBE AND MAIL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Groupon: Where Words Matter | The social coupon and daily deal site made its name and fortune not on monopolizing new technologies or concocting secret mathematical formulas, but by the convincing use of words, transforming what might have been spam into something more elegant.NEW YORK TIMES
Airbnb Raising Major Round | The online service Airbnb is about to close a $100 million fund-raising round at a $1 billion-plus valuation, TechCrunch reports.TECHCRUNCH
Wooga Raises $24 Million | Another day, another fund-raising round for a social gaming start-up. Highland Capital Partners led the round for the German company Wooga, which claims to be the fastest-growing social game developer on Facebook.VENTUREBEAT
For Start-Ups Looking to Private Markets, Public Data Is Key | Start-ups looking to trade their shares on the secondary markets need to disclose more confidential information in order to protect themselves from lawsuits down the line, peHUB writes.PEHUB
All You Need is Tech | Jonathan Franzen, author of "Freedom" and "The Corrections," explains why love is such an existential threat to the tech industry: it exposes the lie that gadgets will change our lives by doing anything we want. (Although rumor has it that Apple will soon have a workaround).NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Justice Department Is Said to Weigh Revision of Takeover Guidelines | The Justice Department is weighing changes to its takeover guidelines, in particular a potential revision of the types of so-called merger remedies it imposes on companies looking to seal a deal.FINANCIAL TIMES
F.D.I.C. Seizes First Heritage Bank | First Heritage Bank, the lender based in Washington State, became the 44th bank to be shuttered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation this year.ASSOCIATED PRESS | SEATTLE TIMES
Corporate Pension Schemes Press M.&A. Case | Britain's Takeover Panel has found itself being pressured by some of the country's biggest corporate pension operators to consider, when bids are submitted, the effect that acquisitions might have on any firm's retirement plan.FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); EURO (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); PONZI SCHEMES (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); MERGERS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (74%); DIVESTITURES (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); CHEMICALS (68%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SPECIALTY PRODUCTS INC (53%); SCANIA AB (52%); GREEN MOUNTAIN POWER CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (58%)

TICKER: SCV.B (STO) (52%); SCV.A (STO) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (53%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (52%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (52%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (90%); JAMES J O'BRIEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011



1033 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: New Hampshire Is Not Unique

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Vastly increased voter turnout in 2008 suggests that other states take politics seriously, too.

 BODY:
I imagine that I may hear from a few people in New Hampshire and Iowa, in response to my column arguing for a different primary schedule. Someone may point out, accurately, that New Hampshire had the highest primary-voter turnout of any state in 2008 -- 53.6 percent, according to the United States Elections Project at George Mason University. (Iowa, a caucus state, had a turnout of only 16.1 percent.)
 But I don't think New Hampshire's turnout proves that its residents are uniquely qualified to vet presidential candidates. Remember, the major candidates spent weeks and weeks in the state in 2007 and early 2008. They knocked on doors, held town-hall meetings and shook thousands of hands. That long run-up is an impressive display of retail politics, as I and almost any other reporter who was there can attest.
 There is every reason, though, to think that other states would rise to the challenge if they were the host of the first primary. Even without all of the attention that New Hampshire received, voter turnout surged elsewhere in 2008, mostly because the race between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama remained competitive for so long. 
Turnout in Wisconsin jumped to 37.1 percent, from 22.7 percent in 2000, the previous time both parties had a nominating competition. Turnout went to 37.3 percent in Indiana, from -- as I calculate, based on this data -- about 16 percent in 2000. It went to 40.7 percent in Vermont, from 29 percent, and to 42.4 percent in Ohio, from 30.6 percent. In Oregon, it went to 43.2 percent, from 29 percent. 
 None of these states received remotely the attention that New Hampshire did. In many cases, they had little tradition of hosting primaries that mattered. Yet they nonetheless had voter turnout that was three-quarters or even four-fifths as high as New Hampshire's. To me, that's a good argument for giving others a chance -- on top of the basic fairness issues and the economic issues I lay out in the column. But I look forward to hearing others' views.

        
What We're Reading: Legalize Pot to Help Mexico's Economy
        
The Poorest States of America
        
What We're Reading: Quotes About Taxes
        
State-by-State Drug Use (Or, Rhode Island Needs More Rehab)
        
Is This Donation Tax Deductible?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (60%); DECRIMINALIZATION (60%) Iowa; New Hampshire; presidential campaign; primaries; voter turnout; United States Politics and Government; Voting and Voters

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (98%); INDIANA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Iowa; New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1034 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Are Taxes in the U.S. High or Low?

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Contrary to many Republican assertions, tax rates in the United States are low, both historically and in comparison with other developed nations, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett has served as an economic adviser in the White House, the Treasury Department and Congress. 
Historically, the term "tax rate" has meant the average or effective tax rate -- that is, taxes as a share of income. The broadest measure of the tax rate is total federal revenues divided by the gross domestic product.
By this measure, federal taxes are at their lowest level in more than 60 years. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that federal taxes would consume just 14.8 percent of G.D.P. this year. The last year in which revenues were lower was 1950, according to the Office of Management and Budget.
The postwar annual average is about 18.5 percent of G.D.P. Revenues averaged 18.2 percent of G.D.P. during Ronald Reagan's administration; the lowest percentage during that administration was 17.3 percent of G.D.P. in 1984.
In short, by the broadest measure of the tax rate, the current level is unusually low and has been for some time. Revenues were 14.9 percent of G.D.P. in both 2009 and 2010.
Yet if one listens to Republicans, one would think that taxes have never been higher, that an excessive tax burden is the most important constraint holding back economic growth and that a big tax cut is exactly what the economy needs to get growing again.Just last week, House Republicans released a new plan to reduce unemployment. Its principal provision would reduce the top statutory income tax rate on businesses and individuals to 25 percent from 35 percent. No evidence was offered for the Republican argument that cutting taxes for the well-to-do and big corporations would reduce unemployment; it was simply asserted as self-evident.
One would not know from the Republican document that corporate taxes are expected to raise just 1.3 percent of G.D.P. in revenue this year, about a third of what it was in the 1950s.
The G.O.P. says global competitiveness requires the United States to reduce its corporate tax rate. But the United States actually has the lowest corporate tax burden of any of the member nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
If taxes are low historically and in comparison with our global competitors, how are Republicans able to maintain that taxes are excessively high? They do so by ignoring the effective tax rate and concentrating solely on the statutory tax rate, which is often manipulated to make it appear that rates are much higher than they really are.
For example, Stephen Moore of The Wall Street Journal recently asserted that Democrats were trying to raise the top income tax rate to 62 percent from 35 percent. But most of the difference between these two rates is the payroll tax and state taxes that are already in existence. The rest consists largely of assuming tax increases that no one has formally proposed and that would be politically impossible to enact at the present time.
Ryan Chittum, in Columbia Journalism Review, responded with a commentary that called the Moore analysis "deeply disingenuous."
Nevertheless, one routinely hears variations of the Moore argument from conservative commentators. By contrast, one almost never hears that total revenues are at their lowest level in two or three generations as a share of G.D.P. or that corporate tax revenues as a share of G.D.P. are the lowest among all major countries. One hears only that the statutory corporate tax rate in the United States is high compared with other countries, which is true but not necessarily relevant.
The economic importance of statutory tax rates is blown far out of proportion by Republicans looking for ways to make taxes look high when they are quite low. And they almost never note that the statutory tax rate applies only to the last dollar earned or that the effective tax rate is substantially lower even for the richest taxpayers and largest corporations because of tax exclusions, deductions, credits and the 15 percent top rate on dividends and capital gains.
The many adjustments to income permitted by the tax code, plus alternative tax rates on the largest sources of income of the wealthy, explain why the average federal income tax rate on the 400 richest people in America was 18.11 percent in 2008, according to the Internal Revenue Service, down from 26.38 percent when these data were first calculated in 1992. Among the top 400, 7.5 percent had an average tax rate of less than 10 percent, 25 percent paid between 10 and 15 percent, and 28 percent paid between 15 and 20 percent.
The truth of the matter is that federal taxes in the United States are very low. There is no reason to believe that reducing them further will do anything to raise growth or reduce unemployment.

        
The Case for Higher Taxes 
        
Is the Fair Tax Herman Cain's Ace in the Hole?
        
Taxes and Economic Growth 
        
Shared Capitalism 
        
Why People Pay Income Taxes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%) Bruce Bartlett; capital gains; Corporate Taxes; Daily Economist; Income Tax; politics; Republicans; tax cuts; Taxation; Federal Taxes (US); Republican Party

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%) Republican Party

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1035 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Palin Visits Trump in New York

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Donald Trump and Sarah Palin meet in Manhattan, generating more buzz about just what she's up to.

 BODY:
Sarah Palin's bus tour of Americana took a side trip into the surreal Tuesday evening when she paid a visit to Donald Trump at his triplex apartment in New York.
Navigating West 56th Street in rush-hour traffic, Ms. Palin arrived around 6:30 p.m. by chauffeured black S.U.V. at Trump Tower, having abandoned her One Nation tour bus, presumably outside Midtown. She alighted with her young daughter Piper, posed for a picture with a tourist and hurried past two dozen reporters and photographers.
She then had pizza with Mr. Trump at an outlet of the Famous Famiglia chain on 50th Street and Broadway. Artan Brdakic, a worker there, said they had a pepperoni pizza, a sausage pizza and a meatball pizza, with Mr. Trump wearing a suit with a blue tie for the meal and accompanied by his wife, Melania.
An aide to Mr. Trump said Ms. Palin, the former Alaska governor and vice presidential candidate, had sought the meeting, having "reached out" that morning. Ms. Palin has generated more buzz about a possible presidential bid with the start of her road trip on Sunday - she has visited Gettysburg and the Liberty Bell - did not reveal why she wanted to pay a call on Mr. Trump and his wife. His own flirtation with a Republican presidential campaign ended last month amid speculation it was all intended to jolt his business interests.
Earlier this spring Ms. Palin voiced support for Mr. Trump's interest in "getting to the bottom" of President Obama's birth certificate. In 2008, during Ms. Palin's vice-presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he trusted her to deal with the nation's economic crisis.
In going to meet Mr. Trump, Ms. Palin breezed into the residential entrance to the gold-clad building across from an Armani superstore. She was all smiles but did not pause for interviews. She did respond to one reporter's question about Mr. Trump's past donations to Democrats: "I think I'll go change his mind and make sure he's contributing to constitutional conservatives.''
Then she disappeared into the doorman building before they left to have pizza.
On the schedule tomorrow, by some accounts: Ellis Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); CAUCUSES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); CONSERVATISM (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Palin, Sarah; Trump, Donald J; Ellis Island (NYC); Gettysburg (Pa); The Caucus

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (94%); SARAH PALIN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (56%) Palin, Sarah; Trump, Donald J

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Ellis Island (NYC); Gettysburg (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



1036 of 1036 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Oprah, Banks and Credit Cards

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus, do you feel confident that you know what you're doing?

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
STORMS HIT HARD A devastating tornado hits Joplin, Mo., and a small-business owner copes with the aftermath. The Louisiana Small Business Development Center is preparing to assist businesses affected by the Mississippi flood waters. The Small Business Administration opens a recovery center in Decatur, Ill., to help businesses hit by the storms.
GOODBYE TO OPRAH, BANKS AND CREDIT CARDS Oprah Winfrey says bye-bye and her swan song leaves a void for small businesses. Seventy-seven banks also say bye-bye. Google's commerce chief tells TechCrunch that it's making a "huge bet" on near field communications technology and also plans to kill the credit card. Because of classic videos like this, YouTube celebrates its sixth birthday and gets three billion (yes, billion) views a day. A puppy celebrates its first birthday.
THE BUDGET GOES DOWN Anne All, a tech writer, wonders if the United States is becoming the new center of low cost manufacturing. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities says wars and the Bush tax cuts are driving our debt. President Obama's February budget is defeated 97 to 0 in the Senate. An academic is defeated by his cat. The G.O.P. plans a vote on the debt ceiling. Are Democrats looking at a 62 percent top tax rate? Susan Solovic, a blogger, says small businesses didn't have much to celebrate during National Small Business Week.
CONSUMERS ARE HURTING Jobless claims unexpectedly rose last week and consumer spending cooled in the first quarter. The Fed's Elizabeth Duke paints a gloomy picture for consumers. A new study by the National Bureau of Economic Research shows 50 percent of Americans would struggle to come up with $2,000 in a pinch. Many warn that a commercial real estate "day of reckoning" is coming. With costs rising 7.5 percent, Medicare breaks the inflation curve. At least honeymooners aren't cutting back.
A SLOW ECONOMY, A FAST KID Russell Investments releases its update on the economy. Durable goods orders decline. The Richmond Fed reports a contraction in manufacturing. April business borrowing and credit quality improves. A three-year-old takes on an otter. Copper falls on slower China manufacturing. Japan falls into a recession. Gas prices decline. New home sales rise. Realtor.com lists the 10 markets where real estate prices are growing the fastest. Revised gross domestic product stays unrevised at an anemic 1.8 percent.
BRILLIANT IDEA OF THE WEEK Guitar picks from credit cards. Duh!
POMP AND UNFORTUNATE CIRCUMSTANCE We spend a lot more per capita on education, but do we get results? You might want to check out the returns. (Big surprise: artsy people earn less). I'm pretty sure these 20 kids won't have much to worry about. Houghton Mifflin is giving away $250,000 to entrepreneurs who can offer ideas to fix our education system. The good news: three quarters of employers plan to hire recent college grads. Anna Lindow explains how to use social media for recruiting, like "you might consider creating a short video, as corporations like Facebook have done, to present your material in a more engaging manner." Or you can just work more hours. Unfortunately, women still have a long way to go to be equal in the workplace. Guys, try not to be too happy.
ONE MORE THING TO BLAME ON MICROSOFT A survey says that 71 percent of small businesses are unaware of cloud computing. Intel debuts a "hybrid" cloud service for small business. Dropbox users save a million files every five minutes. Christopher Mims says mobile apps will soon be dead: "The seeds of destruction for both iOS and Android app stores have already been sown -- by none other than Google." Megan Conniff explains how the Five Guys burger chain implemented online ordering. Twitter buys TweetDeck. Signs show desktop virtualization is coming of age for small business. God allegedly blames Microsoft Outlook for missing the rapture. The L.A. Times' Cyndia Zwahlen reports that hackers don't care whether businesses are big or small. Coming soon: a climbing robot.
THE BEST BAD START-UP PITCH EVER David Lee and Ron Conway bust a few entrepreneurial myths on stage at Disrupt. Worcester Business Journal's Matt Pilon writes about important slip-ups every start-up should avoid. Willis Wee logs some ideas from Startup Weekend Tokyo. A new venture that helps enable the transfer of health records over the Internet receives $5 million in funding. The executive director of the National Association for the Self-Employed lists five big myths about American small businesses. John Baldoni shares three traits of successful entrepreneurs. Paul Kedrosky thinks this is the best bad start-up pitch ever. Nokia wants your ideas. James Altucher explains how he self-published a book, and how you can, too: "There's no financial benefit for going with a publisher if advances are going to zero and royalties are a few percentage points."
IN DEFENSE OF BANKS? Mike Shedlock wants answers to a few important questions before the banks are attacked. Example: "I do not know how big the "strung along" category is, but the only ones in this category who were genuinely harmed to any significant degree are those who continued to make mortgage payments, strung along on a promise, when instead they could have and should have walked away. How many is that? You tell me." Bank profits are the highest since 2007. Bank of America hires 75 small-business bankers in the mid-Atlantic area. Banks plan to offer cash transfers via cell numbers and e-mail addresses.
DON DRAPER TEACHES US MARKETING A study says that American small businesses will spend $36 billion on marketing activities in 2012. A matching service tries to pair small businesses with big business opportunities. Groupon figures out a great way to get unsubscribers to re-subscribe. Gail Goodman, Constant Contact's chief executive, gives us six quick-hit marketing ideas for social media. Example: "Share a casual video message from yourself or one of your employees, or a customer testimonial video." A graphic unravels the mysteries of affiliate marketing. Pitney Bowes announces a customer communications makeover contest for small-business owners. Sean Platt reveals what Don Draper knows about persuasion and success: "Even the most adventurous among us crave the sublime comfort of the familiar. Many writers and marketers understand this human need, but Don tumbles the thought by reminding us that true nostalgia isn't a deep longing for the past so much as an affectionate feeling for a future that feels like a friend."
BROTHELS WANT TO PAY TAXES Thousands of companies and nonprofits that received funds from the Obama administration's economic stimulus program owe hundreds of millions of dollars in unpaid taxes. But Chrysler coughs it up to Uncle Sam. Some House committee members are trying to repeal the 3 percent withholding tax provision. The Nevada brothel industry wants to pay more taxes.
THE WEEK AHEAD The Consumer confidence index appears Tuesday. Look for Friday's unemployment rate to still be high. Look for big crowds at Dunkin' Donuts on Friday.
THIS WEEK'S AWARDS
STUPID INDEX Try to figure out your quality of life with the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development's new Better Life Index. Ummm, is there anything here you wouldn't rate highly?
ADVICE FOR GETTING CASH The Kauffman Foundation's Brian O'Connell explains how to land health care (or other) seed money. Example: "Get to know your favorite V.C.s. You wouldn't pick a business partner without getting to know every facial tic. So why wouldn't you do the same for a venture capital firm, which is a close business partner by any definition? When you start to look for investors, make sure you know how they think, and what they want to see and hear from the companies they invest in. Go see them speak, attend the same seminars, read their books and white papers, study their Web sites, Google them, and yes, follow them on Facebook and Twitter, if that access is available. That way, when you do get a chance to present, you'll know what clicks the pilot light on for that venture investor - and you can target your presentation accordingly."
WISDOM BEYOND HIS YEARS Feross Aboukhadijeh, a Stanford student, says none of us knows what we're doing. Example: "Don't listen to successful entrepreneurs. The folks who succeed have no way to know if their success was due to talent, skill, and planning, or merely dumb luck. If you ask them though, they'll confidently spout reason after reason why they - and no one else - could possibly own 90 percent of the desktop PC market, or whatever they achieved. In their minds, it couldn't have turned out any other way. Most of this is just after-the-fact rationalization, though. The truth is, they succeeded and have no idea why. They're just explaining it in the best way they can."
THIS WEEK'S QUESTION Do you feel confident that you know what you're doing?
Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter, and you can read his read his new book.

        
This Week in Small Business: T.G.I.M.
        
This Week in Small Business: Get Your Party Hats On!
        
This Week in Small Business: Profiting From Osama, Dealing With the Dollar
        
This Week in Small Business: The Shutdown and the Showdown
        
This Week in Small Business: Democrats and Republicans Talk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (96%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TORNADOES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); RECESSION (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); CATS (73%); FLOODS & FLOODING (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); DEBT CEILING (71%); MAMMALS (70%); NEW HOME SALES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); WRITERS (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); MEDICARE (67%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); FACTORY ORDERS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); TAX LAW (66%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (64%); DURABLE GOODS (64%); HOME PRICES (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (62%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%); NEAR FIELD COMMUNICATIONS (54%) economy; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; United States Economy; dashboard

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (52%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (58%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

 
