

401 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 1930 words

HEADLINE: World Food Supply: What's To Be Done?

BYLINE: JUSTIN GILLIS


HIGHLIGHT: As food shortages loom, the governments of the developed world have acknowledged a need to invest anew in global agricultural development. Yet they have been slow to fulfill billions of dollars in pledges. 

 BODY:
In a long article on Sunday and a string of posts on the Green blog this week, The Times has given readers a large body of reporting and analysis on the global food situation, including the risk to the food supply from climate change. I would like to end that run of coverage by pointing concerned readers toward the best thinking out there that tries to answer this question:
What do we need to do?
For a sweeping overview of the risks we face and the potential solutions, the place to start is the document known as the Beddington report. It was compiled by the British government under the auspices of the chief science adviser, Sir John Beddington. In addition to the report itself, the home page for Global Food and Farming Futures offers links to dozens of papers, most of them specially commissioned for the project, that review the science of issues related to the food system. For anyone who wants to delve deeply into the topic, this body of work is a substantial resource.
The overall conclusion of the Beddington report is that, to meet rising demand, the world has no choice but to move to a more intensive agriculture, especially in regions where productivity is low today - but that it needs to do so with maximum concern for the long-term environmental and economic sustainability of that intensified production. The report includes recommendations on virtually every major problem plaguing the food system today, from coping with climate change to alleviating water scarcity to cutting food waste. Separately, Dr. Beddington is chairman of a new commission that is zeroing in on the issue of climate change and agriculture, with recommendations due late this year.
Oxfam, the global relief group, recently published an analysis of the food situation and the risks in coming decades. The themes echo many of my own findings and those of the Beddington report, but the Oxfam report has a sharper tone on certain issues, particularly relating to the behavior of corporations, investors and governments in rich countries. Raymond C. Offenheiser, head of Oxfam's American branch, was recently on the radio talking about these issues. One of the major conclusions of the Oxfam report is that food prices could easily double from today's high levels by 2030, with climate change likely to be responsible for a major part of that increase. 
As I reported in my article, the governments of the developed world have acknowledged a need to invest anew in global agricultural development, but have been slow to fulfill the $22 billion of pledges they made on this issue in 2009 in L'Aquila, Italy. Numerous advocacy groups are attempting to track the status of the pledges. The latest accounting on this issue by the Group of 8 governments themselves was made public a few weeks ago in a document called the Deauville Accountability Report. 
However, the watchdog groups have attacked that document, saying that it obfuscates the slow pace of spending by the governments. A group called ActionAid has published a detailed analysis, coming to the conclusion that, two years into a three-year set of pledges, the governments have actually spent only 22 percent of the pledged amount. Oxfam also discusses the status of the pledges in one section of a broader report.
The role of the United States in ramping up agricultural development is, of course, a major issue. The original Green Revolution succeeded in part because the United States spent large sums of money helping India, Pakistan and other countries intensify their agriculture. This occurred in the context of the cold war, when the philosophy in Washington was that one way to win the loyalty of nonaligned countries was through the stomachs of their citizens. 
Many people have made the case that our national security is no less dependent today on food security in poor countries. The Obama administration has adopted that view, making the single most ambitious pledge at L'Aquila -- $3.5 billion in aid for poor countries over three years -- with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton especially visible on the issue. 
But in tight budget times, the administration has faced a tough battle on Capitol Hill in seeking to make good on its pledge. In two budget cycles, it has won $1.9 billion, so Congress would have to increase spending on the Feed the Future program and related projects substantially in the coming year to meet the pledge. In an interview, Rajiv Shah, administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, told me he was optimistic that Congress would come through. "We are absolutely living up to our pledge here in the United States," he said.
One group tracking the performance of the United States on global food security is the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. It has been deeply involved in the issue for several years, and recently published a Progress Report on U.S. Leadership in Global Agricultural Development. The report gave the United States government a B-minus on its performance to date.
Africa holds the single largest concentration of food insecurity in the world. Agricultural productivity is low and many farmers, often women, do not grow enough to sell their surplus and better their situation. Discussions in the West about the future of African agriculture often devolve into heated ideological battles, like organic vs. conventional production. 
Fortunately, Africans have been devising their own plans and making clear to the outside world what kind of help they do, and don't, need. Africa's overall strategy is the Comprehensive Africa Agricultural Development Program, and that Web site includes a rich trove of documents. Additionally, the World Bank is the trustee for the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program, a fund set up as part of the L'Aquila pledges to finance agricultural development in poor countries. The document repository for that Web site includes many country plans. (Hint: "we need irrigation" and "we need fertilizer" are leitmotifs of the plans.) 
The problem with the World Bank fund is, once again, that rich countries have been slow to honor their pledges to contribute. So while a dozen countries have been funded, 13 more are waiting in the wings for money that hasn't arrived. 
A major issue is the future role of the publicly funded international research institutes that work on major crops like wheat, rice and corn. This network is formally known as the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research, but people in agriculture call it "the C.G. system." It is essentially the institutional legacy of the Green Revolution, with Norman E. Borlaug's old institute in Mexico being one of the major centers.
After years of budget cuts, the C.G. system hit bottom in the mid-2000s, and only recently, with rising global concern about the food supply, have budgets started to recover. But agronomists I interviewed told me they remain grossly inadequate for the necessary tasks of developing improved crop varieties and techniques. 
The C.G. system has been undergoing a reform process to eliminate duplicative work among its 15 centers, and supposedly, new money from donors is eventually going to be forthcoming. "We have not seen the money," Robert Zeigler, director general of the International Rice Research Institute, told me in an interview. I am not aware of any advocacy group that is tracking the C.G. reform and the general performance of the C.G. system; if any reader is, please send me a link. 
I do know some intriguing projects have been initiated recently in some of the centers. For instance, they have been collecting thousands of seed varieties from peasant farmers for decades, but without much ability to figure out what kind of genetic variability was actually available within those plants. Now the genetic tools are becoming available, and Mexico recently financed a huge program called Seeds of Discovery (Web site only in Spanish at the moment) at the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center. 
The goal of such projects is to find great genetic potential in the old varieties and move those genes into modern, high-yielding plants. I suspect that mining our gene banks this way is going to be a major strategy in the future.
Last but definitely not least, there's the question of what kind of scientific research (beyond crop development) we need to ensure the future of the global food supply.
Some scientists I interviewed were concerned about the computerized forecasts of agricultural output that are being used to advise governments and alert them to any potential shortfalls. It is not clear that these incorporate realistic assumptions about crop potential in a changing climate, and they definitely do not include a serious attempt to weigh the likely impact of extreme weather events, like the sort we're seeing all over the world these days. Such extremes are projected to increase because of global warming.
This paper outlines many of the problems with these forecasts, with the failure to incorporate weather extremes at the head of the list. "Extreme events is certainly a big game-changer," said Francesco N. Tubiello, one of the paper's authors. "It doesn't even matter if at the moment they're related to climate change or not. What matters is that they show how vulnerable our systems are."
A major effort is being undertaken to improve the computer forecasts, led by Cynthia Rosenzweig of NASA. Dr. Rosenzweig has won a statement of support from the British and United States governments on the issue, but she told me she had yet to win commitments for the funds necessary to do the work. 
I am going to try to track this issue and update readers from time to time on the progress of this effort, and I would invite anyone with information on that to e-mail me at any time. I would particularly like to know whether scientific funding agencies come through with the money.
These computer forecasts cannot be created in a vacuum, of course - they need to draw on as much real-world research as possible. And some of the scientists I met in my reporting are concerned that far too little fieldwork of this kind is being done.
For example, as humans dump more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, we need to know how all of our most important crops will respond to rising carbon dioxide concentrations, heat and water stress. This information can be obtained with systems that spray extra carbon dioxide into the atmosphere during the growing season. 
Yet we have this information for only a few crops, in a few places, for a few growing years. We have no work of this kind going on at all in the tropics, the part of the world most at risk from future climate change. And the centers that do the work, such as one I visited at the University of Illinois, are still far too small to begin to compare crop varieties to one another, figuring out which ones respond best to high carbon dioxide and by what physical mechanisms. This knowledge may turn out to be critical to securing our food future.
In 2008, a group of more than 30 researchers on these issues published a scientific manifesto on the work that needs to get done. It is now three years later, and some of those same scientists told me recently that little of that research had actually been financed. 
The concern among these scientists is that we may be walking blindly toward a perilous future.

        
Can the Yield Gap Be Closed - Sustainably?
        
Reverend Malthus and the Future of Food
        
Questions on Climate Change and the Food Future
        
Damaging the Earth to Feed Its People
        
Climate Change Drives Instability, U.N. Official Warns

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (92%); FOOD CHARITIES (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (91%); CROP RESEARCH (91%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOOD SECURITY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AGRONOMY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DROUGHT (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); FAMINE (77%); SCIENCE POLICY (74%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); POLITICS (74%); FOOD PRICES (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (71%); EMISSIONS (70%) Africa; Agency for International Development; Agriculture; agriculture policy; Chicago Council on Global Affairs; climate change; Comprehensive Africa Agricultural Development Program; Drought; famines; Feed the Future; food security; food shortages; Global Agriculture and Food Security Program; Green Revolution; Oxfam; water scarcity; World Bank; Borlaug, Norman E; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Obama, Barack; Offenheiser, Raymond C; Shah, Rajiv; Carbon Dioxide; Corn; Food; Genetics and Heredity; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Humanitarian Aid; Irrigation; Research; Science and Technology; Shortages; United States Politics and Government; Wheat; Group of Eight; International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center; International Rice Research Institute; State Department; United States Agency for International Development; University of Illinois; L'Aquila (Italy); Business; Government Policy; innovations; Politics and Policy; Science

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); INTERNATIONAL MAIZE & WHEAT IMPROVEMENT CENTER (84%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%) Group of Eight; International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center; International Rice Research Institute; Oxfam; State Department; United States Agency for International Development; University of Illinois; World Bank

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (72%) Borlaug, Norman E; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Obama, Barack; Offenheiser, Raymond C; Shah, Rajiv

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%) ILLINOIS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%); ITALY (91%) Africa; L'Aquila (Italy)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



402 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Derailed

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The administration's plans to crack down on leaks have been foiled by a plea bargain, and Newt Gingrich has found himself short-staffed. 

 BODY:
From Today's Times:
 A former National Security Agency official pleaded guilty Thursday to a misdemeanor charge of misusing an agency computer, derailing the administration's plans to make an example of him as it cracks down on government officials who leak classified information. Under the Espionage Act, Thomas A. Drake had faced up to 35 years in prison for giving a reporter information about N.S.A. technology, one of five such prosecutions brought since President Obama took office, The Times's Scott Shane reports. Now prosecutors say they would not object to a sentence in which Mr. Drake serves no time. In a devastating blow to his presidential ambitions, Newt Gingrich's senior advisers resigned en masse on Thursday, accusing him of lacking the focus necessary to run a successful campaign. The Times's Jeff Zeleny and Trip Gabriel report that Mr. Gingrich was already struggling to raise money and establish himself as a front-runner, and the two-week vacation from which he just returned prompted his staff to question his commitment. The head of the nation's counterterrorism hub will step down in July, clearing a path for new leadership around the time the Obama administration plans to announce an updated strategy for dealing with potential threats. Michael E. Leiter, one of the few senior Bush administration national security officials retained by Mr. Obama, has served as director of the National Counterterrorism Center for almost four years, The Times's Eric Schmitt reports. After five decades of being ignored by American presidents, Puerto Rico will end that streak Tuesday with a visit from Mr. Obama, renewing debates about whether it should become a state, remain a commonwealth or even break away from the United States. But residents hope the president will also talk about the more serious problems plaguing the island - specifically, the skyrocketing crime rate and an unemployment rate that makes the mainland's 9 percent look good, The Times's Lizette Alvarez reports.Around the Web:
 The Tea Party organization FreedomWorks is starting its own super political action committee, Roll Call reports. Under federal law, the grassroots group's PAC will be barred from making direct contributions to campaigns, but it can raise and spend unlimited amounts of money for political uses.Washington Happenings:
 Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his wife, Jill, plan to celebrate this year's Susan G. Komen Global Race for the Cure to fight breast cancer by hosting a reception at the Naval Observatory Friday. It will be the third time they have hosted breast cancer survivors and supporters of the cause as honorary chairs of the event. Mr. Obama and his family will travel to Camp David Friday and stay there overnight. Friday kicks off this weekend's national street soccer tournament for homeless young people and adults at the Washington Kastles's new stadium, raising awareness to end homelessness. Mayor Vincent C. Gray will appear at the event to welcome the teams.

        
The Early Word: Competition
        
The Early Word: Replacement
        
The Early Word: Rebuked
        
The Early Word: Warning
        
The Early Word: Unemployment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (88%); ESPIONAGE (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAUCUSES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); RUNNING (68%); TERRORISM (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (63%); BREAST CANCER (63%); CANCER (63%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); SOCCER (50%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); JOE BIDEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



403 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Why I Don't Believe in the American People

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: If you don't believe in supply-side miracles, you hate America. 

 BODY:
Tim Pawlenty -- who has turned out to be a much bigger fool than I or, I think, anyone imagined -- replies to criticism of his claim that he can get 10 years of GDP growth at 5 percent:
Obama's economic team doesn't have a plan, so their spokespeople attack ours. The idea that they don't believe in the American people enough to say that we can grow the economy at 5% GDP really says everything. You have to wonder if in fact Obama's grand plan is that we don't grow at all - and if so - he and the central planners are doing a great job of that.
Well, here are 10-year growth rates starting with 1929-39:
Data here.
Except for the big jump from the depths of the Great Depression to the height of World War II, we have never had a decade of growth at 5%. 
What's also notable in this figure is the invisibility of all the supposed economic miracles we hear about. Saint Reagan was supposed to have revitalized the economy; can't see it here. All you can really see is that the 60s were very good, and the recent slump has been very, very bad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); WORLD WAR II (52%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



404 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Where Private Borrowing Led to Public Debt

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
FIVE years ago, a survey of the euro zone would have shown two star countries. They were growing rapidly and running government budget surpluses. Their national debts were low. Other countries sought to emulate their success. 
The outstanding countries were Spain and Ireland.
Today, of course, the picture is far different. The two countries' national economies are shrinking, not growing. Ireland has received a bailout from Europe, and while Spain can still borrow money, it is forced to pay at least two percentage points a year more than Germany, a spread the Spanish government says it cannot afford to pay indefinitely.
At the time the two economies appeared to be impressive, there was one indication that could have provided a warning. Each country's private sector was borrowing heavily overseas. Those loans were fueling rapid economic growth that, in turn, produced rising tax collections, allowing national governments to run budget surpluses.
In principle, there is nothing wrong with debt-financed growth. What matters is whether the borrowed money is going to create productive enterprises and purchase valuable assets that will generate future profits to repay the debt.
But in bubbles, that is not likely to happen. In Ireland and Spain, as in the United States, property booms led to overinvestment in housing, and to plunging property prices when the bubble burst. What was important was that during the boom years, the financial systems of many countries completely failed to channel money into productive investments.
Bad capital allocation was not the only way for a country to get into trouble, of course. The stories of Greece and Portugal are different.
Spain, fortunately, had relatively good regulation of its major banks, which has helped to limit the damage. But local banks have been hurt badly. In Ireland, virtually the entire banking sector collapsed, and was bailed out by a government that could not afford the cost.
The accompanying charts show the relative standing of the five largest economies in the euro zone -- Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands -- and the three smaller countries that have sought bailouts.
The charts show the annual rate of economic growth over the years 2005 and 2006, as well as the average budget surplus or deficit during those years and the level of national debt, relative to gross domestic product, at the end of 2006. For comparison, similar charts show the same indicators for the years 2009 and 2010.
The fourth chart is an estimate of the amount either lent to or invested in the private sector, as a percentage of G.D.P. The figures are based on the logic that the current account, which includes international trade and other noninvestment-related transfers of funds, must balance with the capital account, which includes both investments and proceeds from previous investments. Whatever part of the capital account is not accounted for by the government budget deficit presumably is due to private sector activity.
One of the lessons of the financial crisis and its aftermath is that excessive private sector debt ended up being converted to public sector debt, through bailouts of financial institutions, through government spending to help sectors of the economy devastated by the collapse of a speculative bubble and through the loss of tax revenue from the failing companies and newly unemployed citizens.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The First Shall Be Last: In the middle of the last decade, Ireland and Spain appeared to be extremely successful economies, based on economic growth, government budget surpluses or deficits and outstanding national debt. But that apparent success was belied by the fact that the private sector was borrowing heavily from outside the country. That can be seen by what could be called the private sector international balance of payments, which measures the part of a country's current-account surplus or deficit that is not accounted for by government borrowing. The tables rank eight countries -- the five largest in the euro zone and the three that have sought assistance -- in each area. One set shows the performance in 2005 and 2006, before the financial crisis, and the second in 2009 and 2010, as the countries sought to recover from it. (Sources: National governments, via Haver Analytics
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (91%); BUDGETS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); HOME PRICES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GERMANY (91%); GREECE (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



405 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: Ethnic Protests In China Have Lengthy Roots

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Shi Da and Adam Century contributed research.

 BODY:
DAMAO BANNER, China -- The Mongol nomads who have ranged across these blustery grasslands for millenniums have long had a tempestuous relationship with their Han Chinese neighbors to the south. Genghis Khan's horseback conquerors overran Beijing in 1215, and Qing dynasty armies returned the favor four centuries later.
By the time Mao's Communist rebels declared victory in 1949, the Mongolians who occupied what became the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of China had been by and large pacified through Han immigration, intermarriage and old-fashioned repression.
But the ethnic Mongolian protests that have swept a number of cities in recent weeks are a sobering reminder that government largess, assimilation or an iron fist cannot entirely extinguish the yearnings of some of China's 55 ethnic minorities, who account for 8 percent of the country's population. 
Even as an exemption from the nation's one-child policy granted to minorities helped expand their numbers, Mongolians are still outnumbered by Han five to one in Inner Mongolia, a region twice the size of California that borders the independent nation of Mongolia.
''We feel like we are being drowned by the Han,'' said a 21-year-old computer science student, speaking through the fence of Hohhot Nationality University, where he and thousands of other Mongolian students were penned up for five days last week to prevent them from taking to the streets. ''The government always talks about ethnic harmony, but why do we feel so oppressed?''
Although the immediate trigger of the demonstrations was a homicide in which a Han coal truck driver struck and killed a Mongolian herder in early May, the underlying enmity can be tied to longstanding grievances that spilled out during interviews with more than a dozen Mongolians last week: the ecological destruction wrought by an unprecedented mining boom, a perception that economic growth disproportionately benefits the Han and the rapid disappearance of Inner Mongolia's pastoral tradition.
In Xilinhot, a mining hub not far from where the herder was killed as he and others tried to block a convoy of coal trucks, as many as 2,000 people, many of them students, took to the streets on May 26. Five days later, about 150 protesters marched through the center of Hohhot, the regional capital, despite the presence of thousands of soldiers and paramilitary police officers who kept college students confined to their campuses.
The government response has hewed closely to the recipe used to quell the far more violent ethnic turmoil that convulsed Tibet in 2008 and the predominantly Muslim region of Xinjiang a year later. Internet access has been severely restricted, with most Mongolian Web sites shut down, and scores of students, professors and herders have been taken into custody. Enhebatu Togochog, an exiled human rights advocate, has described the crackdown as a ''witch hunt.''
But officials have also sought to address some of the underlying drivers of the discontent. They have vowed to correct abuses of the coal industry, among them unregulated strip mining and trucks that career over the fragile steppe. The government has also committed to broader changes, promising hundreds of millions of dollars for education, environmental protection and the promotion of Mongolian culture.
And in an unusually prompt trial -- apparently a reflection of Chinese leaders' fears of further unrest -- a Xilinhot court on Wednesday handed down a death sentence to the Han driver convicted of running down Mergen, the Mongolian herdsman. The trial, which lasted six hours, according to the official Xinhua news agency, also yielded stiff sentences for three other men involved in the episode. The authorities said they planned to quickly try another Han driver accused of killing an activist with a forklift during a confrontation between the two groups at a coal mine several days later.
But it is unclear if the swift action will still resentments that have simmered despite Inner Mongolia's fast-expanding economy -- the growth rate has topped that of all other provinces since 2002 -- and affirmative action policies that have provided tens of thousands of government jobs to ethnic Mongolians.
''The Mongolian situation is very worrying for the Chinese leadership because you can't just throw money at an issue like ethnic identity,'' said Minxin Pei, a China expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and professor of political science at Claremont McKenna College in California.
Here in Damao Banner -- banner being the Mongolian equivalent of a county -- a decade-long effort to restore grasslands to health by moving thousands of shepherds into towns and cities has helped fuel antigovernment sentiment.
The reasons for the land's decline are a matter of some debate, although many environmentalists say the damming of waterways, coal mining and overgrazing all play a role. But the government's most ambitious solution, known as ecological migration, focuses solely on the herdsmen, providing subsidies to them -- but only after they have sold off their flocks.
In Damao, those with money are encouraged to move into new apartment blocks on the outskirts of town. For now, they appear largely vacant, although a billboard near the entrance claims that 20,000 people have already moved into the 31 buildings.
Those too poor to buy new homes rent cramped rooms in the town's Mongolian quarter, a grim, densely packed cluster of brick buildings. On a recent afternoon, Suyaltu and Uyung, the husband-and-wife proprietors of a small canteen called Friend of the Grassland, explained how they were forced to sell their pasture and a herd of 300 cows, sheep and horses in 2004. There are perks to the program, they said: subsidized school fees for their college-age daughter, a $2,775 annual subsidy and the advantages of living near medical clinics, shops and schools.
Still, Uyung, 50, who like many Mongolians goes by a single name, said that even when combined with the income from their restaurant, their soon-to-expire subsidy was not enough to sustain the family. Then there are other, less tangible downsides to the arrangement. ''We feel lost without our herds and the grassland,'' she said as her husband looked at his feet and dragged on a cigarette. ''We discovered we are not suited to the city, but now we are stuck.''
Chen Jiqun, director of Echoing Steppe, an organization that works to protect Inner Mongolia's grasslands, said the benefits of ecological migration were questionable. For one, he said, a healthy pasture depends on the hooves of grazing animals to grind up manure. ''Otherwise it just blows away and the land loses its fertility,'' he said.
In a report issued last December, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food, Olivier De Schutter, criticized China's nomad resettlement policies as overly coercive and said they led to ''increased poverty, environmental degradation and social breakdown.''
But Christopher P. Atwood, an expert on Inner Mongolia who has studied the disintegration of herding communities, said ecological migration was merely accelerating the inevitable demographic shift brought on by two decades of sagging livestock prices and the rural stagnation that drove young Mongolians to the region's Han-dominated urban centers.
''Rural communities are the stronghold of Mongolian culture and language, so breaking them up has a direct impact on ethnic identity,'' said Mr. Atwood, chairman of Central Eurasian Studies at Indiana University, Bloomington.
The result has been a steady decline in the proportion of students who attend Mongolian-language schools, a figure that has dropped by nearly half, to 40 percent, since the 1980s. The shift has largely been propelled by former herders like Huang Liying, 38, a shop owner whose 13-year-old daughter studies at a Mandarin-language school in Baotou, an industrial city 500 miles away. ''To be successful in the modern world you need to speak good Chinese,'' Ms. Huang said. ''I feel regret she doesn't speak her mother tongue, but Mongolian is not very useful beyond the grassland.''
Even if the government is not directly responsible for the ebb of Mongolian language and culture, many of those who joined the protests last week directed their ire at the Han officials who run the show in Inner Mongolia. They complained about increasing intermarriage, the heavy-handed censorship of local Web sites and the fact that Mongolian script on street signs is sometimes rendered smaller than the adjacent Chinese characters.
Such sentiments are not confined to students. During one of several unwelcome confrontations with the police last week, a Mongolian officer in Damao sidled up to a stranger and made a startling confession. He said he wished he had been brave enough to join the protests. ''The anger I feel,'' he said with a conspiratorial grin, ''is burning through my veins.''
Correction: June 22, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A report on June 9 in the World Briefing column, about the trial of a Han Chinese coal truck driver sentenced to death for the May 10 killing of an ethnic Mongolian herdsman blocking a road in China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, referred incorrectly to the herdsman's death, which was a catalyst for large protests by other ethnic Mongolians in the region. It was a homicide, not an accident or a hit-and-run accident. The error was repeated in an article on June 11 about the tensions between ethnic Mongolians and Han Chinese in Inner Mongolia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''We feel lost without our herds and the grassland,'' said Uyung, left, with her husband, Suyaltu, at the small canteen they run in a town in Damao Banner, China.
In Damao, former herders with money are encouraged to move into new apartment blocks.
 Mongolians in Inner Mongolia largely wear traditional robes only on special occasions now. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) MAP: Inner Mongolia's pastoral tradition is rapidly disappearing. (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ARMIES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TRUCK DRIVERS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); ETHNICITY (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); HOMICIDE (64%); INTERNET & WWW (62%); MARRIAGE (55%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011



406 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Security Checks on Boaters Disrupt Idyllic Life on the Hudson

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y. -- For Bill O'Brien, summer had meant the bliss of the Hudson River ever since he went out fishing for stripers as a boy. But last year, after he was stopped once too often by law enforcement patrol boats with armed officers, he decided he had had it. He sold his 22-foot jet boat, convinced that a once-restful afternoon on the Hudson was just becoming too stressful to enjoy.
''One time I got stopped four times in one day,'' Mr. O'Brien, 45, an M.R.I. technologist from Orange County, said. ''It feels like every agency and municipality on the Hudson has a boat, and they're all out there trying to justify themselves by finding someone doing something wrong. It's just gotten out of control.''
Ten years after the terrorist attacks downriver made security checks commonplace, a tea party of sorts is brewing on the Hudson, as boaters and marine businesses complain bitterly about being stopped too often and questioned too closely by officers wearing flak jackets and holstered pistols -- many of them on the lookout for terrorists. 
And as boating season begins, that vigilance has become one of those vexing flashpoints, like baggage searches and airport body scans, in the shifting definition of what is normal -- post-9/11 overreaction to some, and a response to real risks to others.
A petition drive among boaters has generated hundreds of signatures and scores of angry comments.
Boat clubs are mulling strategies, and the largest boating-industry group along the river, the Hudson Valley Marine Trades Association, recently wrote the Coast Guard commander in New York to protest ''an incredible increase of recreational vessel boarding.''
Boaters say the stops have multiplied in large part because they are only minimally coordinated among roughly two dozen agencies that watch the river: federal authorities, state police from New York and New Jersey, county sheriffs' departments and a host of other organizations, familiar and obscure, including the Border Patrol and the New York Naval Militia.
But Coast Guard and law enforcement officials say much of their watchfulness reflects a bigger concern: In addition to its quiet joys and natural splendor, the Hudson is home to some potentially rich targets for terrorists -- including the Indian Point nuclear power plant, West Point and the Tappan Zee Bridge -- and could become a pathway for attackers to reach New York City unnoticed.
Those officials say that, yes, boaters on the Hudson and on other waterways are far more likely to be stopped than they were in the past, but that is just one way in which life has changed.
''We get a lot of complaints, but maritime safety and security has taken on a whole new direction since 9/11 -- we're more proactive, we're more vigilant,'' said Lt. James Luciano, who oversees the Westchester County Police Department's marine unit. ''Before 9/11, you could access buildings more easily than you can today. Look at airport security.''
No one compiles figures for all the agencies patrolling the Hudson, so it is unclear how much enforcement has escalated. The Coast Guard says its boardings vary from year to year, and dropped to 300 last year, from 741 the previous year.
But the authorities say increased vigilance is needed, given that antiterrorism experts cite small boats as a particular threat -- as evidenced in the deadly 2008 attacks in Mumbai, India, that were begun from two inflatable speedboats. About 45,000 boats are registered in counties along the Hudson.
Lex Filipowski, a businessman and motivational speaker, said he had been furious about the situation since he was stopped four times in two days by four agencies.
''If they stopped cars on the roadways the way they stop boats on the river, there would be a revolution'' he said.
As he launched his 25-foot-long boat, ''Carpe Diem,'' at the Pirate Canoe Club here, another boater, Frank Bergman, seemed as concerned with boating politics as with boating.
''We understand they have a job to do to keep the bridges safe and protect Indian Point, but it's just overkill,'' said Mr. Bergman, president of the Hudson River Boat and Yacht Club, which represents 36 boat clubs. ''The question in my mind is, is it homeland security or boater safety or just harassment and justifying their jobs?''
Boaters, a sometimes cantankerous and self-regarding lot, have grumbled for years about the stops, which can involve being pulled over for a check of credentials and required safety gear like life vests, or a demand to board the boat for inspection.
The discontent began to escalate when Mr. Filipowski posted an angry statement and petition last June on the Web site of the magazine Boating on the Hudson. More than 250 people signed, many expressing grievances.
''I'm thinking about selling my boat, stopped all the time,'' one wrote.
''We are not terrorists and criminals,'' wrote another. ''We are citizens who own and use boats.''
Marinas and boat sellers, their customers already buffeted by high gasoline prices, also raised alarms. ''We are operating in tough economic times and cannot afford to lose customers who are discouraged by law enforcement operations,'' Gabe Capobianchi, president of the marine trades association, wrote the Coast Guard last month.
It was not always this way. Before 9/11, some boaters complained of too little law enforcement. ''Back then the Hudson felt like the Wild West,'' said George Samalot, who has owned a sailboat repair business in West Haverstraw since 1985.
But since 9/11, security and enforcement have been transformed, aided by grants from the Department of Homeland Security that have underwritten more and better boats and manpower. Westchester County did not have a marine unit until 1999; now it has two high-tech surveillance boats that cost $250,000 and $400,000 and can patrol around the clock.
That can be a good thing. When Detectives Kenneth Hasko and C. J. Westbrook cruised from Tarrytown to Cortlandt one recent Friday, their one stop involved rescuing a couple in a new $40,000 boat with a dead battery, stuck on a sunken barge. The officers found the couple's knowledge of marine safety somewhat lacking.
''You have your flares?'' Detective Westbrook asked.
''What's a flare?'' the man replied.
They towed the couple in and made sure they got help. ''They could have ended up with a new boat with a hole in the hull,'' Detective Westbrook said. ''And we're the bad guys?''
Officials say that while they are sensitive to the complaints, there is no going back to the world before 9/11.
''Job No. 1 is keeping people safe,'' said Charles Rowe, a Coast Guard spokesman. ''Even the ones who are complaining.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Westchester County's police department is one of several agencies patrolling the Hudson River. (A1)
Boaters have been subject to more checks by multiple agencies since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.
 Bill O'Brien, a longtime Hudson boater, sold his boat. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (89%); TERRORISM (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); ARMED FORCES (87%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); SHERIFFS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); PETITIONS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); AIRPORT BODY SCANS & PAT DOWNS (68%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (66%); POLICE FORCES (57%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); POWER PLANTS (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



407 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Death by Nostalgia

BYLINE: By SARAH WILLIAMS GOLDHAGEN. 
Sarah Williams Goldhagen is the architecture critic for The New Republic.

 BODY:
THE modern historic preservation movement started in New York City in the early 1960s, when a band of locals pushed the issue into popular awareness with their unsuccessful effort to block the destruction of the old Pennsylvania Station.
Now, nearly a half-century later, New York is home to the most high-profile attack on the movement yet: in a recent exhibition at the New Museum, the architect Rem Koolhaas accused preservationists of aimlessly cherry-picking the past; of destroying people's complex sense of urban evolution; and, most damningly, of bedding down with private developers to create gentrified urban theme parks.
Some of Mr. Koolhaas's criticisms are on target -- but his analysis is wildly off-base. It's not preservation that's at fault, but rather the weakness, and often absence, of other, complementary tools to manage urban development, like urban planning offices and professional, institutionalized design review boards, which advise planners on decisions about preservation and development. 
It's that lack, and the outsize power of private developers, that has turned preservation into the unwieldy behemoth that it is today.
Some historical context is in order. As American cities expanded rapidly between 1890 and 1930, urban dwellers and municipal governments realized that developers, who were building ever-larger and ever-taller buildings, would never reliably serve the public interest.
So cities tried to strike back: Manhattan's hulking Equitable Building, which blocks street-level sunlight practically all day, helped provoke New York's 1916 zoning resolution that required significant setbacks for tall buildings.
Then, in 1926, the Supreme Court ruled that municipalities could regulate the use of private property based on the broader public interest. Professional city planning was born, but systems to vet building and urban design quality at the federal, state and local levels -- common in countries and cities across Europe -- were never institutionalized.
By midcentury, professional urban planners were developing and sometimes designing large-scale, long-term regional and urban plans and helping write land-use and other laws to govern urban development's shape and future.
But without design-review mechanisms, their output of low-quality public housing and ill-conceived megablocks soon turned the public against them. By the late 1960s, an emergent populist, antigovernment sentiment among voters began to shift power back into private hands.
City governments, suffering the economic downturns of the 1970s and '80s, gave ever more leeway to real estate developers, and ever more voice and political power to hyperlocal community boards; both groups typically focused on their own narrow and usually short-term interests rather than the broader, long-term public good.
As a result, historic preservation laws, which by the late 1970s were increasingly popular in a country bored by modernism and excited by nostalgia, became, de facto, one of city governments' most powerful instruments for influencing private development.
Tax-starved cities, inspired by earlier preservation projects like Ghirardelli Square in San Francisco and Faneuil Hall in Boston, began to use preservation to create so-called target destinations; New York's first foray was the initially successful South Street Seaport.
Savvy developers soon began collaborating with cities and preservationists, co-opting the movement for their own interests while capitalizing on the public's nostalgia for yesteryear. Developers became experts at including just enough of the old -- a facade here, a foyer there -- to ease the approval process and even win sizable tax breaks on their projects.
In other words, preservation morphed into a four-headed monster: a planning tool, a design review tool, a development tool and a tool to preserve genuinely valuable old neighborhoods and buildings. Today decisions about managing urban development are frequently framed as decisions about what and what not to preserve, with little sense of how those decisions affect the surrounding neighborhood.
Worse, these decisions are mostly left to the whims of overly empowered preservation boards, staffed by amateurs casting their nets too widely and indiscriminately. And too many buildings are preserved not because of their historic value or aesthetic significance, but because of political or economic deal-making.
Instead of bashing preservation, we should restrict it to its proper domain. Design review boards, staffed by professionals trained in aesthetics and urban issues and able to influence planning and preservation decisions, should become an integral part of the urban development process. At the same time, city planning offices must be returned to their former, powerful role in urban policy.
That's the way things work in Europe, where vibrant contemporary cities like London, Berlin, Paris and almost any city in the Netherlands blend old and new without effacing their normal evolutionary processes.
As these cities demonstrate, preservation should be one of several instruments necessary for creating livable, attractive and vibrant urban spaces and architecture. Otherwise, in the hands of weak local governments, powerful real-estate interests and untrained panels, it is indeed an impediment to the healthy modernization of our cities: a recipe for aesthetic insipidity and urban incoherence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ZONING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); POLITICS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



408 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Imports Rise In China, Easing Fears On Growth

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
BEIJING (AP) -- The growth of China's imports accelerated in May in a sign that the world's second-largest economy might not be slowing as sharply as some fear, though its exports weakened as global demand slowed. 
Imports rose 28.4 percent over a year ago, beating most forecasts. That was up from the 21.8 percent growth rate in April, data showed Friday. Export growth eased to 19.4 percent from April's 29.9 percent.
''Today's trade data should go some way to ease fears that China's economy is heading for a hard landing,'' Mark Williams, an analyst at Capital Economics, said in a report.
China's monthly global trade surplus widened to $13 billion, its highest level this year and an increase over April's $11.4 billion.
Indicators of industrial activity have been weakening, prompting concern that the Chinese government's efforts to steer rapid economic growth to a more sustainable level with lending and investment curbs might lead to an economic slowdown.
A sharp downturn in China could cause global repercussions if it cut into China's voracious appetite for oil, iron ore and other imports.
China's economy grew by 9.7 percent in the first quarter, but other data showed manufacturing, bank lending and other activity cooling after four increases in interest rates since October.
Analysts said that despite the unexpected strength in May imports, underlying momentum for trade growth was weak.
May imports were $144.1 billion, while exports were $157.2 billion, the General Administration of Customs reported.
China's trade surplus with the United States narrowed by 5.3 percent from a year ago to $15.8 billion. Growth in exports to the American market fell to 18.7 percent over a year ago, from April's 22.4 percent.
The trade surplus with the 27-nation European Union, China's biggest trading partner, fell 11.6 percent to $10.6 billion.
Imports from Japan rose 7.8 percent compared with a year ago after growth dipped to 4.6 percent in April after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that forced thousands of Japanese factories to close, disrupting flows of industrial components.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (66%); TSUNAMIS (50%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



409 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Will Require More Banks to Submit Capital Plans

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve on Friday said it would expand a capital planning program to the 35 largest United States banks to ensure they had an adequate buffer in an economic crisis. 
Bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets would be required to adopt ''robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks,'' the Fed said in a statement.
Banks also would need to submit plans to raise dividends or repurchase stock as part of the Fed reviews, to begin early next year, the Fed said. Banks whose plans were rejected would have to get approval before distributing capital.
Some investors welcomed the tougher supervision, saying it was long overdue.
''This amount of oversight is something that has been lacking in the corporate board room in most banks,'' said Joel Conn, president of Lakeshore Capital in Birmingham, Ala.
In March, the 19 largest banks, including Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase, completed capital reviews that allowed many to increase dividends or buy back shares. The new reviews are part of a broader effort, which includes the Dodd-Frank financial regulation legislation, to tighten supervision of financial companies and reduce the risk of another crisis.
Before the recent crisis, ''many bank holding companies made significant distributions of capital, in the form of stock repurchases and dividends, without due consideration of the effects that a prolonged economic downturn could have on their capital adequacy,'' the Fed said in its proposed rule.
The initiative may compel banks to hold additional capital and reduce profitability measured by return on equity, said Bert Ely, an industry consultant based in Alexandria, Va.
''There will be tremendous pressure to downsize,'' he said, or have ''financial engineers to come up with new forms of shadow banking'' by moving activities outside commercial banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DIVIDENDS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (78%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



410 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Airlines, Now Flush, Fear a Downturn

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
So far this year, the airlines have been able to repeatedly raise ticket prices while still filling their planes. It has been a lucrative formula.
But with the economy slowing down again, the stock market sputtering and high oil prices cutting into household budgets, the airlines may be harder pressed to keep their fares up and planes packed, at least without resorting to significant cuts in capacity when the summer vacation season is over.
Some warning signs are already there. The airlines have failed to raise fares in six of their seven efforts since March, suggesting that some passengers may be balking at the higher ticket prices. ''Airlines have overreached,'' said George Hobica, the founder of AirFareWatchdog.com.
Still, the airlines' aggressive pricing strategy has worked well for them. Every major airline has managed to squeeze more revenue out of its passengers this year, thanks not just to higher fares but also to a growing multitude of fees. In May, for instance, United Continental Holdings reported that its estimated revenue per passenger was 14 to 15 percent higher than a year ago, while Southwest Airlines said that measure had risen 11 to 12 percent. 
It has not hurt that mergers have left fewer airlines and that they have taken a more disciplined approach to controlling capacity.
For the summer, traditionally the busiest air travel season of the year, demand for airline seats remains strong. The Air Transport Association, the airline trade group, expects 206 million people will fly in June through August, an increase of 1.5 percent over last year. The association even expects the number of passengers on international flights this summer to break last year's record.
Fares, meanwhile, are at the highest seen since their peak in the third quarter of 2008, when the financial crisis hit, according to statistics compiled by the Department of Transportation.
While fares change daily, the cheapest nonstop round-trip flight from New York to Las Vegas for the July 4 weekend was selling on Friday for $597. The cheapest flight from San Francisco to Boston and back, operated by United Airlines, was selling for $664, but that included one stop. Southwest Airlines was charging $703.80 for the trip, and that was with a stop in both directions. A week in Paris is also expensive -- with round-trip fares for nonstop flights starting at $1,442 on American Airlines out of New York.
And these figures do not count the extra fees the airlines now charge, for everything from checked bags to priority boarding to reservation changes or fuel surcharges in international flights.
''It's getting ridiculously expensive,'' said Kevin Currie, a representative with the Teamsters union, who said he might soon curtail visits to relatives in Florida if ticket prices kept rising. ''There are more people flying right now, so shouldn't their prices go down?''
Of course, the airlines do not think that way. Since more passengers are vying for every available seat, they can keep raising fares and still fill their planes.
But there are cheaper fares to be had. Mr. Hobica, of AirFareWatchdog.com, noted that travelers could still buy a $280 round-trip fare between Newark and Los Angeles between July 3 and July 11, for example. ''If you are willing to be flexible, there are deals.''
Steven Tilston, the senior director for analysis at Expedia, an online travel agent, agreed. ''Flights are getting a little more expensive but that is not happening uniformly.''
Given the steeper fares, some travelers may be tempted to drive instead, despite the rise in gasoline prices. One Web site, BeFrugal.com, developed an online application that helps travelers compute the total cost of flying versus the time needed to drive between any cities.
The Web site calculates that it would take four hours and 50 minutes to get from a specific location in Salt Lake City to downtown Los Angeles by air, and cost $762, including cab fares along the way. The same trip could be made by driving about 11 hours for a total round-trip cost of $292.
This certainly has not been an easy year for the airlines. While air travel has recovered from the recession, fuel prices have surged this year. In addition, the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the instability in the Middle East cut travel to those places. As a result, the International Air Transport Association slashed its forecast for the global industry's profitability this week. The global trade group said it expected airline profits to fall sharply this year. Profits for North American carriers will drop to $1.2 billion this year, from $4.1 billion last year, the group said.
Nicholas E. Calio, the president of the Air Transport Association, the trade group for United States carriers, voiced a similar concern. The association said that in the first quarter of the year, domestic airlines spent $11.4 billion on fuel, a 30 percent increase from the same period in 2010.
''Even as demand for air travel continues to improve, high and volatile energy prices could hamper recovery efforts,'' Mr. Calio said.
Still, the airlines have long been adept at fine-tuning their fares to maximize revenue on each flight. Ray Neidl, a senior aerospace specialist at Maxim Group, an institutional brokerage firm in New York, said he expected that flights would be packed through the summer but that the airlines might have to make some major adjustments in the fall.
''This is the first cycle I have ever seen where the airline industry has had strong discipline in controlling capacity,'' Mr. Neidl said.
The airlines have already anticipated a drop in demand in the fall and have started to take steps to curb their capacity by the end of the year.
Delta, Air France KLM, and Alitalia, which operate a joint venture on flights between the United States and Europe, said they planned to slash the seats they offer by as much as 9 percent after the summer.
In the meantime, the numbers remain strong for the airlines. Delta said this week that passenger traffic in May rose by 2.2 percent compared with last year while its load factor -- or the percentage of seats that are filled -- was nearly 84 percent. On American Airlines, the load factor on domestic flights was 86 percent in May.
Tim Winship, the publisher of FrequentFlyer.com, said such numbers were a sharp shift for the industry, which only a few years ago was satisfied with filling 65 to 75 percent of seats.
''Be prepared to confront your own claustrophobia when flying this summer, because it is going to be congested,'' Mr. Winship said. ''This is going to translate directly into high levels of discomfort for customers. If you are thinking of having an empty middle seat on your flights this summer, the odds are very good that you will be disappointed.''
Ask Liz Elder, who stepped off a flight from Salt Lake City to visit one of her sons in New York recently. It was her fifth time flying since February. ''Every flight I've been on this year has been absolutely packed,'' she said. ''Planes are absolutely stuffed.''
Online Correction: June 10, 2011, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the airline offering a $664 round-trip fare between San Francisco and Boston. It is United Airlines, not Airways.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A busy La Guardia Airport in Queens. Although fares are rising, the number of people flying is expected to increase during the summer. (B1)
 Passengers at La Guardia Airport. Ticket prices have returned to levels not seen since the before the financial crisis. But fuel prices have surged, too, and that has carriers concerned. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); TICKET SALES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); STATISTICS (72%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (67%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (90%); LUV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



411 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Big Kindergarten Wait List Limits City's Pre-K Slots

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
There were more applications for children to enter prekindergarten classes in New York City this year than last, but a smaller proportion of them ended up getting in: 68 percent, down from 72 percent.
The increased number of applications -- 28,815, compared with 25,487 last year -- and long waiting lists for kindergarten led to the higher rejection rate, as crowded schools across the city cut pre-K classes to make room for the older children, portending a potential crisis in early-education services, which have suffered repeated budget cuts in recent years.
Some principals were told they would have to get rid of a prekindergarten class weeks ago. Others found out the day before the letters were sent. Many are worried about running out of space in school buildings that are at or near capacity: a kindergarten class has up to 25 children, 7 more than are allowed in pre-K. 
''Either we don't take any kindergarten students in 2012, which is probably not an option, or I won't have room for my incoming fourth graders that year,'' said Cecilia Jackson, principal of Pioneer Academy in Corona, Queens, an elementary school that has been phasing in a grade a year since opening in 2008.
The city ordered Pioneer, which had the second-largest kindergarten waiting list in the city, to give up one of its two full-day prekindergarten classes and replace it with two more kindergarten classes in the fall. Public School 107 in Park Slope, Brooklyn, whose building is so crowded there is no auditorium or gym, will trade its only prekindergarten class for more kindergartners.
Students who were not matched can have applications submitted again during the summer for seats that might be vacant or created if the city and the state provide more money for the program.
''This is by no means the last chance,'' said Matthew Mittenthal, a spokesman for the Education Department.
The space crunch stems partly from the cuts endured in recent years by the Education Department and the city's Administration for Children's Services, which offer prekindergarten services at day care centers.
In 2007, the city got an additional $61 million from the state to pay for two and a half hours daily of prekindergarten services for all 4-year-olds enrolled in children's services programs. But when the economy foundered in 2008, the city cut its funding to day care centers that provided prekindergarten programs, eliminating about 300 seats.
The next year, children's services stopped offering kindergarten for some 5-year-olds as a way to save money, sending 3,000 of them into the public school system, helping drive up average class sizes, according to an analysis by the city-financed Independent Budget Office.
Some 60 percent of prekindergarten services in New York are offered outside the public schools, including community-based organizations that receive public subsidies. Betty Holcomb, policy director at the Center for Children's Initiatives, an advocacy organization, said it enrolled about 36,000 children in the current year in its prekindergarten classes.
Ms. Holcomb said if the budget proposed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg last month remained unchanged, 200 more classrooms in day care centers, including many that offer prekindergarten services to 4-year-olds, will be affected.
''We're just shrinking capacity, and as a result, parents are being closed out everywhere they turn,'' Ms. Holcomb said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



412 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Plunge Amid Worries Over Growth

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Graham Bowley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Investors anxious about the outlook for global economic growth sent stocks sharply downward on Friday as the Dow closed below 12,000 for the first time since March.
The drag on stocks is especially troubling because it suggests that one of the few bright spots for the United States economy may be starting to fade. Just six weeks ago, the Dow Jones industrial average seemed poised to break through the 13,000 mark, closing at 12,810 on April 29. But on Friday it fell 172.45 points, or 1.42 percent, to close at 11,951.91.
It had not been below 12,000 since March 18, and it has now suffered a loss for six consecutive weeks, its longest weekly slump since the fall of 2002. 
''In general, we have had such a long string of disappointing economic data, not only domestically but to some extent globally as well, that people are perhaps at last shifting their outlook,'' said Kathy Jones, fixed-income strategist at Charles Schwab.
The pressure points for the Dow's slump included concern that China's high-powered export economy could be slowing and a growing sense that Europe will be unable to reach a consensus on how to end the Greek debt crisis that has troubled markets for more than a year.
In the United States, a rash of sluggish indicators -- especially related to the job market, manufacturing, consumer confidence and home sales -- has economists worried about a stalled recovery. The nervousness was heightened this week when the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said the economic recovery remained uneven but did not say the Fed would continue to intervene. Investor enthusiasm has cooled with signals from the Fed that it will end its purchase of $600 billion dollars in Treasury securities at the end of June.
The continued political wrangling over the raising of the national debt ceiling has fueled additional concerns. Moody's Investors Service said last week that it might downgrade the United States credit rating if lawmakers did not increase the nation's debt limit ''in coming weeks.''
''The marketplace is spooked,'' by the recent bad economic news, said Ciaran O'Kelly, head of equities at Nomura in the United States.
Whether the uncertainty for investors and the markets will lift, or whether stocks will continue their decline, is as unclear as the muddled economic signals. But Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist for the Economic Outlook Group, said the markets were finally coming to a realization of how much worse things had become.
''This is not rocket science,'' he said. ''Up until a month or two ago, investors thought the headwinds against the recovery were transitory. But they may now last a lot longer.''
In addition to the Dow's decline, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 18.02 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,270.98. The Nasdaq composite index was down 41.14 points, or 1.5 percent, to 2,643.73, and that exchange is down for the year.
''The markets on the whole are reacting to what we think is a slowdown period of both the U.S. and the broader economy,'' Jason D. Pride, the director of investment strategy at Glenmede, said.
''And to put a cherry on top of the scenario, as far as downside pressures, you have this significant unease surrounding exactly what is going to come from the Greek debt issues.''
Mr. Pride said the financial markets were plowing through uncertain times.
''We are going through a period where the economic expansion is likely to be coming in a bit softer than in the past,'' said Mr. Pride. ''Anytime you have a slow period like this, the concern that we are going to have a relapse starts coming up in the minds of investors.''
While the Dow is now down seven of the last eight trading sessions, it is still up by nearly 3 percent from its lowest close this year, which was 11,613.30 on March 16.
In the United States on Thursday, stocks had risen after the nation's trade data showed the highest exports on record, reaching $175.6 billion in April. The gains ended a six-day losing streak and were the first time stocks rose in June.
Phil Orlando, chief equity market Strategist at Federated Investors, said Friday's decline likely was a retracing of Thursday's rally as the weekend approached.
''The fact that today is a Friday might be significant,'' he said. ''Investors have a tendency to not want to be long over a weekend. And the reality is that this euro zone and sovereign debt issue is very much in play.''
As stocks fell, Treasury prices rose, partly riding the wave of recent strong sales of short and long bonds. The Treasury's 10-year note rose 7/32, to 101 10/32. The yield fell to 2.97 percent, from 3 percent late Thursday.
''The bond market does look to be in a sound position with momentum on its side after the Treasury's successful sale'' this week, said Kevin H. Giddis, the executive managing director and president for fixed-income capital markets at Morgan Keegan & Company.
Energy stocks led the declines on the broader equities market, falling 1.88 percent, after reports that Saudi Arabia would increase oil production.
Crude oil in New York fell $2.64 to close at $99.29 a barrel.
Exxon Mobil fell 1.72 percent to $79.78. Chevron was down 1.54 percent at $99.67; Schlumberger declined 2.54 percent to $83.66 and Halliburton was 2 percent lower at $48.
The S.& P. was weak across the board, with consumer discretionary, industrials and materials among the sectors declining more than 1 percent.
Financial stocks were also lower by more than 1 percent during the day, but closed down by about 0.7 percent.
There is little relief in sight, Mr. Orlando said.
''We have had a steady drumbeat of weak economic news,'' Mr. Orlando said. ''There is really nothing on the horizon to suggest in the very near term that trend is going to change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Dow Jones industrial average closed below 12,000 for the first time since mid-March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW GOMBERT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B7) CHARTS: DOW (A1)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBT CEILING (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (73%); EURO CRISIS (71%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); EMPLOYMENT (51%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (64%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (59%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



413 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Imports Rises, Despite Dip in Fuel Costs

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Prices of goods imported into the United States unexpectedly rose in May as increasing costs for consumer goods like autos and clothing overshadowed the first drop in fuel expenses in eight months. 
The 0.2 percent increase in the import-price index, its eighth consecutive gain, followed a revised 2.1 percent climb in April, Labor Department figures released Friday showed. Economists projected a 0.7 percent decrease for last month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Costs advanced 12.5 percent from May 2010, the biggest 12-month increase since September 2008.
Growing demand from economies in Asia and Latin America, paired with a weaker dollar, is pushing up the cost of goods from abroad for businesses. At the same time, Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has reiterated that he expects elevated commodity costs to moderate.
''Higher prices given the weaker dollar are something that the economy is going to have deal with going forward,'' said Russell T. Price, a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial in Detroit. ''Retailers and food vendors are seeing their costs rise.''
Projections in the Bloomberg survey of 55 economists ranged from decreases of 2 percent to increases of 0.3 percent.
Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 12.5 percent, the biggest 12-month gain since September 2008. They were forecast to increase 11.2 percent over the last 12 months.
The cost of imported petroleum decreased 0.4 percent from the prior month and was up 45 percent from a year earlier.
Excluding all fuels, import prices increased 0.4 percent from the prior month. They were up 4.4 percent from May 2010, matching the year-over-year gains in the prior two months as the largest since October 2008.
Costs of imported automobiles increased 0.5 percent from the prior month, Friday's report showed. Consumer goods excluding vehicles showed a 0.3 percent gain, led by a 0.7 percent gain for cotton apparel.
Imported food prices fell 0.5 percent, the first decrease since June 2010.
The cost of goods from China rose 0.3 percent, while those from Japan were unchanged.
American export prices increased 0.2 percent after rising 0.9 percent the previous month. Prices of farm exports fell 2 percent, while those of nonfarm goods climbed 0.5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT PRICES (91%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); FOOD PRICES (79%); EXPORT PRICES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (69%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



414 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Flee in Sudan as North-South Clashes Grow, U.N. Says

BYLINE: By JOSH KRON and JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

 BODY:
NAIROBI, Kenya -- The northern Sudanese military is on a ''house-to-house'' hunt for opposition forces in the embattled city of Kadugli, near Sudan's disputed internal border, as intensifying clashes are forcing tens of thousands of people to flee, United Nations officials said on Friday.
Recent aggression by the government in Khartoum, Sudan's capital, has put the possibility of normalized relations with the United States ''into grave jeopardy,'' a top American official said. 
Heavy fighting in Kadugli, the capital of Southern Kordofan -- a northern Sudanese state where many of the people are aligned with the southern Sudanese -- erupted on Sunday, just weeks before the scheduled separation of southern Sudan from the north on July 9.
Many of the soldiers who fought alongside the south during the long civil war with the north are from Southern Kordofan, particularly the Nuba Mountains area, and the state was due to hold vaguely defined ''popular consultations'' on its political future this year.
But last week the northern military deployed tanks and thousands of soldiers to Kadugli to forcibly disarm the southern-allied soldiers there. Fighting soon broke out in a number of locations and has spread.
Many analysts believe that the sudden flurry of military activity -- the north occupied the contested region of Abyei last month in overwhelming numbers and a few days later sent a letter to southern Sudanese officials saying it was going to do the same in two more politically volatile states, including Southern Kordofan -- is part of a calculated, hard-knuckled negotiating strategy to pressure the south into conceding more oil or money as Sudan prepares to split into two.
While the south holds roughly 75 percent of Sudan's oil reserves, the north has the refineries and pipelines; conventional wisdom argues that the two sides need each other for their economies to survive.
The United Nations officials' reports of house-to-house searches in Kadugli were corroborated by church groups in the Nuba Mountains. The United Nations also said the northern Sudanese military conducted aerial bombardments on four locations in the area on Thursday.
The United Nations has said it would try to protect civilians, but there have been reports that northern Sudanese forces were abducting people from a displaced-persons camp next to a United Nations peacekeeping base in Kadugli.
''The S.A.F. are trying to consolidate their grip over the town,'' said Hua Jiang, a spokeswoman for the United Nations in Sudan, referring the northern Sudanese army.
''The fighting has been ongoing,'' Ms. Jiang said. ''Looting is ongoing, and some of the U.N. agencies' warehouses and offices have been ransacked.''
''This is a very serious situation,'' she added.
The United Nations also said that the northern army bombed a southern Sudanese military base along the border on Thursday. One United Nations official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, warned that if negotiations over the next week between northern and southern officials failed, the tensions could ''blow.''
The southern Sudanese military on Friday said that the bombing had occurred 12 miles into southern Sudanese territory, but that the army would not retaliate.
''Definitely it is an attack on southern Sudan, and we are expecting more attacks,'' said Col. Philip Aguer, a spokesman for the southern Sudanese military, adding that he feared northern land forces were advancing toward southern territory.
''The borders have not been demarcated,'' Colonel Aguer said, ''and they are occupying what they think the border should be.''
Northern Sudan has agreed to honor the independence of the south in part because the United States, which helped broker a 2005 peace agreement between the two sides, indicated that it was willing to lift sanctions on the north and normalize diplomatic relations if the government in Khartoum, Sudan's capital, met certain conditions.
But Susan E. Rice, the American ambassador to the United Nations, said the recent northern aggression, especially in Abyei, was not helping Khartoum's case.
''They have put into grave jeopardy the implementation of the roadmap,'' she said. ''Because they have not only not fulfilled their obligations, they are doing the opposite.
''But if they were to pull out and withdraw their forces, and allow for a neutral peacekeeping presence'' in Abyei, Ms. Rice said, ''it's not necessarily too late. But they have to hurry. The world is watching and waiting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Refugees at a United Nations shelter after fleeing Kadugli, where northern Sudanese forces were said to be on a ''house-to-house'' hunt for opponents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL BANKS/UNITED NATIONS MISSION IN SUDAN, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); ARMIES (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); DISARMAMENT (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (68%); MOUNTAINS (67%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (88%) SUDAN (97%); KENYA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



415 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Now Lobbying for a Poor Indian State

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
KOLKATA, India -- Amit Mitra was recently telling visitors why he had just left his cushy job as corporate India's top lobbyist to brave the tumultuous politics of his home state, West Bengal, by becoming its finance minister. A colleague barged into his office.
It was the public works minister, reminding Mr. Mitra that his department needed $32 million to cover bills that had gone unpaid since the state's previous government declared a spending freeze last December.
''I'll speak to the finance secretary,'' Mr. Mitra told his colleague, Subrata Buxi. ''It will be done by 4 today.''
If only Mr. Mitra, an economist trained at Duke University, could solve all of West Bengal's financial problems so easily. 
Mr. Mitra, 63, whose party won a landslide victory last month against a communist coalition that had ruled the state for 34 years, is the point man for one of India's biggest domestic economic challenges.
West Bengal, with a population of 91 million, was once seen as an industrial model for the rest of the nation. Fifty years ago, the state had India's highest per-capita income, and its biggest city, Kolkata, formerly Calcutta, was the nation's de facto business capital.
But in recent decades, the city's and state's growth rates have lagged behind the rest of the country's.
The communist government's restrictive economic policies, authoritarian rule and penchant for strikes prompted many businesses to leave. The country's largest bank, the State Bank of India, moved its headquarters to Mumbai, the current financial capital. In a 2009 World Bank report, Kolkata ranked last among 18 Indian cities based on ease of doing business.
But in an election last month, voters replaced the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) and its allies with a young political party, the Trinamool Congress, that made reviving the state's economy a central plank of its platform.
''We are very hopeful,'' said Rana Sinha, chairman of the Kolkata-based eastern region of the trade group Confederation of Indian Industry.
But success will require more than replacing a communist government with favorable business talk. Mr. Mitra spent 18 years in New Delhi at the helm of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the nation's premier business lobbying group. But his new boss, Mamata Banerjee, is a firebrand politician who has sometimes made the corporate community wary.
Ms. Banerjee, West Bengal's new chief minister -- the equivalent of an American governor -- built a large populist following by opposing controversial industrial projects that had been backed by the previous government. Critics say she was often an absentee manager of the national railways, which she oversaw the last two years as a federal minister, because she was focused on winning in West Bengal.
What is more, she and Mr. Mitra have inherited a state debt of 2 trillion rupees ($44 billion), among the highest in the country relative to the size of its economy.
The state's potential revival is not important just for its own sake. Most of India's poorest people live in a dozen northern and eastern states, including West Bengal. Economists and political analysts say that if India is to start approaching its potential, state governments must take the lead in providing their people with better financial opportunities and social services.
Now that Ms. Banerjee has been elected, her supporters promise that her full attention will be devoted to the state. Her campaign to overthrow the communists attracted support from across Bengali society, including former communists, police officers, writers and at least some business executives. One, Sabeer Bhatia, a founder of the American company Hotmail, volunteered to improve the party's communications department.
But perhaps the business person she will need to rely on most is her finance minister, Mr. Mitra.
Ms. Banerjee and Mr. Mitra lifted the state's spending freeze early this month by tapping into federal government money at their disposal. They also are negotiating an aid package from the national government, which is run by the Trinamool Party's ally, the Congress Party.
But to really fix the state's finances, economists say, the government must attract new investment and expand its tax base, which may prove difficult.
Many Indian business executives remember Ms. Banerjee for leading the charge against a manufacturing complex proposed by Tata Motors, India's largest automaker, in Singur, a village north of Kolkata. The company wanted to produce the Nano, a $2,500 car, at the plant. (She also opposed a proposed chemical complex at Nandigram, south of Kolkata.)
In Singur, Ms. Banerjee protested the government's decision to forcibly acquire land for the project, siding with 2,000 farmers who did not wish to give up 400 acres for the 1,000-acre site. At the time, Mr. Mitra, and most of India's business establishment, defended the project.
Tata abandoned the Singur site in 2008, moving the factory to Gujarat, a western state. Today, a couple of large empty buildings remain at the walled-off site as grim testament to that struggle. In 2008, Mr. Mitra said Tata's decision to leave would ''create problems for the state.''
Ms. Banerjee later recruited Mr. Mitra, who like her grew up in West Bengal, to lead a committee to help the railways work with private companies. It was during the year and a half he spent in this advisory role, Mr. Mitra said, that he came to appreciate Ms. Banerjee's position on Singur. He said the previous government ''completely botched up'' the project by seizing land from farmers without negotiating prices, a conclusion that even some communist leaders now acknowledge.
Mr. Mitra has changed in other ways, too. His attire, formerly tailored suits, is now more traditional. At a recent interview, he wore a Bengali dhoti kurta, a wrapped pantaloon-tunic combination.
At times, the rough and tumble of politics has seemed to wear Mr. Mitra down. Near midnight on the day the new government was sworn in last month, he was taken to the hospital suffering from dehydration. He said he had not eaten in 16 hours.
But Mr. Mitra is no political parvenu. He comes from a well-known political family: his father was deputy speaker of the West Bengal legislature and his mother's uncle was the venerated freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose, who is remembered for having rejected Gandhi's nonviolent struggle and raising an army to fight the British.
Mr. Mitra said he joined Ms. Banerjee because it was a momentous opportunity to help turn around his home state. Using another version of Ms. Banerjee's name, he said, ''If we do not join Mamata Bandopadhyay in this resurgence of Bengal, the historic change into the future, we would not be able to go to sleep comfortably.''
Lapsing into a chamber of commerce cadence perfected in his previous job, Mr. Mitra said businesses were calling him almost daily to explore opportunities in the state. ''Country after country, corporation after corporation, today are beginning to see that there is a great opportunity here.''
Many businesses, however, are still on the fence. The Tata Group, India's largest business conglomerate, for instance, has not committed to running a factory on the undisputed 600 acres in Singur that Ms. Banerjee now says the company may have.
D. P. Nag, the secretary of the Bengal National Chamber of Commerce, said Ms. Banerjee might have been elected on a populist platform but must now deliver on economic development. ''Now that they are in power,'' he said, ''they have to do something.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Under new political leadership, Kolkata, India, is struggling to attract investment for economic growth. (B1)
Laborers with puffed rice in Kolkata, India, formerly Calcutta. A communist coalition that long ruled the state has been replaced.
 Tata Motors abandoned a factory in West Bengal, left, shifting it to Gujarat. Amit Mitra, the finance minister, is working to entice Tata and other companies back. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PRASHANTH VISHWANATHAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (65%); RANKINGS (63%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); GOVERNORS (57%)

COMPANY: STATE BANK OF INDIA (90%); COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: SBIN (NSE) (90%); SBID (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (94%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (95%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



416 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
AS SUDAN'S CITIZENS FLEE,
SOLDIERS SEARCH FOR REBELS
The northern Sudanese military is on a ''house-to-house'' hunt for opposition forces in the embattled city of Kadugli, near Sudan's disputed internal border, as intensifying clashes are forcing tens of thousands of people to flee, United Nations officials said on Friday. Page A4
PINPOINTING E. COLI SOURCE 
After days of confusion, German authorities said that they had concluded that contaminated sprouts from an organic farm in the country's north were the most likely cause of one of the world's worst outbreaks of E. coli. Page A5
RUSSIAN KILLER FOUND SLAIN
A former Russian tank commander who was paroled early after being jailed for the murder of a young Chechen woman was shot to death in central Moscow in what the police said was probably a contract killing. Page A9
VIOLENCE SWELLS IN SOMALIA
Protests and violence wracked in Somalia's capital, incited by the announcement the day before that the country's popular prime minister had resigned. Page A9
KARZAI ARRIVES IN PAKISTAN
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan arrived in Pakistan for a two-day visit, which was being viewed as an effort to ensure Pakistani help in the peace talks he has initiated with the Taliban. Page A8
National
SURVIVORS OF TORNADO
AFFLICTED BY RARE FUNGUS
Several people who were injured when a tornado devastated Joplin, Mo., last month have become sickened by an uncommon fungal infection; at least three have died, although public health officials said Friday that a link between the infection and the deaths was not certain. Page A12
THE MEDIA'S SMALL ARMY
News organizations mobilized teams of reporters and online volunteers to scan the 25,000 pages of e-mails from Sarah Palin that were released. Some critics have accused the news media of overkill at best and vigilantism at worst. Page A12
New York
CUOMO SEEKS TOUGHER LAWS
FOR TEXTING WHILE DRIVING
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, joining officials in other states who have sought steep penalties for phone-wielding motorists, said that he would introduce legislation to crack down on drivers who text, post on Twitter or otherwise distract themselves with handheld electronics while at the wheel. Page A15
Obituaries
BRIAN LENIHAN, 52
He served as Ireland's finance minister and led the nation's effort to fend off bankruptcy after the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the subsequent freezing of global credit markets exposed years of reckless lending by Irish banks to support an inflated property market. Page D8
Business
FOR AIRLINES, HIGH PRICES
AND FULL SEATS MAY SLOW
This year, the airlines have been able to repeatedly raise ticket prices while still filling their planes. But there are signs the situation may cool after a hot summer vacation season. Page B1
PANDORA INCREASES PRICE
As Pandora Media's initial public offering approaches, the online music service has upped its price tag. But analysts remain skeptical of Internet brands' profitability. Page B3
TOYOTA SAYS PROFITS WILL FALL
Toyota Motor said that it expected its annual profit to fall almost a third from the previous year, hurt by production disruptions after the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan in March. Page B3
SPAIN PASSES LABOR MEASURE
The Spanish government approved measures intended to reduce chronically high unemployment by introducing more flexibility in labor relations despite failing to win support from employers and unions for the changes. Page B4
Arts
SINGLE MOTHER DOING IT ALL AND OUT-SLEUTHING THE MEN
Increasingly on television, there's never enough time because men are lazy and that's why women do almost all of the work, Alessandra Stanley writes. That is certainly the premise of ''The Protector,'' in which Ally Walker plays a divorced homicide detective trying to raise two sons. Page C1
Sports
FOR WEST VIRGINA COACH,
A HAZY FUTURE LOOMS
As reports swirled that Bill Stewart, soon-to-be former coach of the West Virginia Mountaineers, might be running a smear campaign against his successor, Dana Holgorsen, fans were not sure what to think. Page D1
OP-ED
Joe Nocera PAGE A19
Charles M. Blow PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); TALIBAN (78%); ARMIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); E COLI (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); MURDER (74%); PAROLE (74%); TICKET SALES (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); TORNADOES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); NEWS REPORTING (68%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (67%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); CREDIT CRISIS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); PRICE CHANGES (62%); AIRLINES (62%); TEXT MESSAGING (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); PRIME MINISTERS (52%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); PANDORA MEDIA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: P (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (65%); SARAH PALIN (50%); ANDREW CUOMO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) MISSOURI, USA (79%) SUDAN (94%); SOMALIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



417 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Christmas in June for Skiers

BYLINE: By WINA STURGEON

 BODY:
LITTLE COTTONWOOD CANYON, Utah -- At the base of a slope that at this time of year usually tests the skills of mountain bikers, roughly 60 skiers and snowboarders, hoping to get first tracks on the mountain, waited for the 8 a.m. opening of the tram at Snowbird resort.
These were not bitter-enders hoping to eke out runs on a thin swatch of snow. At this northern Utah resort, it is still winter. There is hardly a bare spot on the mountain. Piles of snow line the vast parking lot. With much of the country in the grip of record-high temperatures, it was 31 degrees here Friday morning. Snowbird has announced that it will be open for snow sports three days a week until July 4. And it could stay open even later.
An unusually heavy winter snowfall and a cold, wet spring have resulted in a record snowpack in much of the mountain regions of the West. Bob Bonar, the general manager at Snowbird, said the mountain received more than 775 inches of snow this season, well above its average of 500. 
''We even got 20 inches of powder over Memorial Day weekend, and our current average base is more than 15 feet,'' Bonar said. ''The holiday may not even be the end. We may stay open a few weekends longer if the snow stays good.''
But if the giant snowpack remains a boon to skiers at Snowbird and at Snowbasin Resort about 70 miles to the north, it has been problematic to others.
Ed Chauner, director of the Intermountain Cup Mountain Bike Racing Series, said he had to change the site of a race last month because the original site, Sundance Resort, still had 10 feet of snow. A race planned at Snowbird on July 2 is also in jeopardy because, Chauner says, ''there's still 20 feet of snow on parts of the course.''
''All this weather is killing us,'' Chauner said. ''No one can get out and train during the week, because it's been so cold and wet. If they can't train, they don't come out to race. Our rider numbers have been way down.''
The La Nina phenomenon is behind the weather anomaly, said Lindsay Storrs, a meteorologist at KUTV in Salt Lake City. In a La Nina year, she said, cooler than normal water temperatures in the Pacific off the coast of Chile leads to cooler and wetter weather in winter and spring in the western United States.
''Troughs develop along the West Coast of the U.S. when this occurs,'' Storrs said. ''That allows storms to continuously drop out of the Gulf of Alaska, giving the western U.S. above average precipitation.''
Snowbird's full parking lot is testimony to the attraction of this season's late snow.
''I have skied for 72 years, and I've never skied snow like this in June,'' said Eric Jucker, 75, a Swiss citizen who travels back and forth from Laguna Beach, Calif., to Salt Lake City.
Martin Martinov, a Bulgarian biophysicist living in Park City, Utah, got off the tram Friday and said, ''I've never seen snow like this that you didn't have to hike to get to at this time of year.''
The record conditions are even attracting out-of-towners. Bradley Rieders of Woodbury, N.Y., traveled to Snowbird with his sons, 23 and 26.
''We came out here to ski and golf on the same day,'' Rieders said. ''We flew all the way out here just for that. The weather is beautiful, the skiing is fantastic; it's paradise, just unbelievable.''
Snowbird has its large tram and two lifts operating, offering access to every run on the mountain. By extending the closing date to July 4, it will be open 202 days this season, a record by one day.
''There are places on the mountain that will probably retain snow all summer long,'' said Emily Moench, the resort's communications manager.
The fact that summer is still a long way off for Utah's Wasatch Mountains works out well for the United States freestyle team, which is training at Snowbird. Scott Rawles, the moguls head coach, said the team was saving money by not having to travel to South America. Winter in the Southern Hemisphere doesn't usually begin until August, and the only available snow in June and July is on glaciers crowded with the national teams of other countries.
''That is huge for us,'' he said.
But just as the snow has hampered Chauner's mountain bike series, it has even had an adverse effect on the overall operations at Snowbird, which likes to present itself as a four-season destination. The resort would normally be starting summer activities by now.
''Aside from the fact that the weather is cold and wet, the Alpine Slide track is buried under many feet of snow,'' Moench said, referring to a popular summer attraction.
Jeff Robins, chief executive of the Utah Sports Commission, which works to attract major sporting events to the state, said the unusual weather had been particularly disruptive in the north.
''We're seeing the golf season starting later this year,'' he said, ''and the weather has created issues for the spring sports that are typically played in high school and college -- from tennis to track and field, soccer, baseball, softball, the weather has created challenges for competitions typically held in spring. It's not just snow in the mountains, but rain that is affecting recreational activities like fishing, kayaking, camping, mountain biking and hiking.''
While the delay for northern Utah's summer activities will have an economic impact on the state, it may be the least problematic of the overall weather effects.
''The snowpack we have right now is 525 percent of normal,'' said Brian McInerney, the hydrologist for the National Weather Service in Utah. ''The lower level snowpack from 7,500 to 6,000 feet is already gone, but the mid-elevation snow from about 7,500 to 9,000 feet is still there.''
He added: ''Our soils were already saturated starting in March due to a heavy rainfall in early spring. Now, if you try to ride or hike on these soils, they will still be wet, still be saturated. If you use the trails at all, especially for mountain biking, it's going to screw them up.''
The most serious consequence of the huge snowpack in the Wasatch Mountains may be lurking well below the summits, especially if the weather changes rapidly to the typically hot northern Utah temperatures of late June and July.
''Once it starts going, the inertia of melting snowpack goes pretty fast,'' McInerney said.
The speed of the melt has state officials concerned about flooding. Some rivers have already breached their banks and inundated homes and hundreds of acres of farmland. And though snow-riders are still loving the snow, it remains a threat, a vast rush of water just waiting to pour down on the valleys below.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric Jucker, 75, is among the many skiers attracted to Snowbird in Utah. The resort is scheduled to stay open for snow sports until July 4, and may remain open later. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM SMART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The United States freestyle team is at Snowbird, where the moguls coach Scott Rawles gave pointers to Taryn Baker, 13, above left. Snowboarders are also enjoying the resort, which had 775 inches of snow this season. It averages 500. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WINA STURGEON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (93%); SKIING (92%); WEATHER (90%); SNOWBOARDING (90%); RESORTS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (89%); EL NINO & LA NINA (89%); CYCLING (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); METEOROLOGY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (95%); WEST USA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (75%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



418 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Rainbow Flag Goes Up; Letters Flow In

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
RICHMOND, Va. -- The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond ran a rainbow flag up its flagpole last week and has been hearing about it ever since.
From conservative groups who are outraged. From gay rights groups who are pleased. And from state lawmakers on both sides who just cannot seem to stop talking about it.
The bank unfurled the flag on June 1, at the request of a group of gay and lesbian employees in honor of gay pride month. 
One day later, Bob Marshall, a Republican in the House of Delegates and an outspoken opponent on gay rights issues, was moved to write a letter to the bank's president, saying that the flag was inappropriate for a quasi-governmental entity.
Gay and lesbian ''behavior,'' he wrote, ''undermines the American economy, shortens lives, adds significantly to illness, increases health costs, promotes venereal diseases,'' among other things.
That prompted a series of outraged rejoinders from gay rights advocates, including Adam Ebbin, a gay lawmaker from Northern Virginia who said that despite Mr. Marshall's views, things had ''gotten better for L.G.B.T. Virginians.''
In many ways, the controversy mirrors the changing demographics of this fast-growing state, whose traditions and habits are mixing with an influx of immigrants and young professionals in the northern part of the state.
Jim Strader, a spokesman for the bank, said the bank had fielded hundreds of phone calls and as many e-mails about the flag. The flag, he said, symbolizes ''values of being open and inclusive,'' and shows that the bank is ''a place that doesn't discriminate.''
That is important in Virginia, said James Parrish, executive director of Equality Virginia, because House Republicans have twice blocked a bill that would protect state employees from discrimination by sexual orientation.
Rainbows, which festoon entire neighborhoods in some cities during gay pride month, are hard to spot in Richmond, and Mr. Parrish said the flag outside the bank was ''noticeable.''
''This is not Greenwich Village or Hell's Kitchen,'' he said.
One of the most popular arguments by the flag's opponents was that the bank is a government institution and so should not be displaying a flag that promotes a cause. And now that they are, the argument goes, they have an obligation to other causes.
''We hope there would be an even hand played when a Christian requests the Christian flag in September during Christian Heritage month,'' said Victoria Cobb, president of the Family Foundation, a conservative advocacy group.
Mr. Strader's response is that the bank is in fact privately owned, as are all regional Federal Reserves, and that it considers requests by employees -- this was the first one -- but not the general public.
Mr. Marshall, 67, has been vocal on gay issues. He told The Washington Post last year that he was concerned gay troops would spread venereal disease. He was also a sponsor of Virginia's ban on gay marriage.
Mr. Strader said the bank ''anticipates'' that it will respond to Mr. Marshall's letter. Meanwhile, Mr. Marshall has written an opinion article that he said is scheduled to run on Sunday in The Richmond Times-Dispatch.
''I am sure this flag and or Fed story will not end here,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rainbow flag, flown at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Va., by request, has drawn a flurry of commentary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHMOND TIMES-DISPATCH, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (94%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (93%); RED HAT INC (52%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%); NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



419 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Government Says 2 Materials Pose A Risk of Cancer

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The government issued warnings on Friday about two materials used daily by millions of Americans, saying that one causes cancer and the other might.
Government scientists listed formaldehyde as a carcinogen, and said it is found in worrisome quantities in plywood, particle board, mortuaries and hair salons. They also said that styrene, which is used in boats, bathtubs and in disposable foam plastic cups and plates, may cause cancer but is generally found in such low levels in consumer products that risks are low.
Frequent and intense exposures in manufacturing plants are far more worrisome than the intermittent contact that most consumers have, but government scientists said that consumers should still avoid contact with formaldehyde and styrene along with six other chemicals that were added Friday to the government's official Report on Carcinogens. Its release was delayed for years because of intense lobbying from the chemical industry, which disputed its findings. 
John Bucher, associate director of the National Toxicology Program, which produced the report, said evidence of formaldehyde's carcinogenicity was far stronger than for styrene and that consumers were more likely to be exposed to potentially dangerous quantities of formaldehyde.
The federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration warned in April that a hair-care product, Brazilian Blowout Acai Professional Smoothing Solution, contained unacceptable levels of formaldehyde, and salon workers have reported headaches, nosebleeds, burning eyes, vomiting and asthma attacks after using the product and other hair-straighteners.
Studies of workers like embalmers exposed to high levels of formaldehyde have found increased incidences of myeloid leukemia and rare cancers of the nasal passages and upper mouth.
Dr. Otis Brawley, chief medical officer at the American Cancer Society, said that formaldehyde is both worrisome and inescapable. ''It's the smell in new houses, and it's in cosmetics like nail polish,'' he said. ''All a reasonable person can do is manage their exposure and decrease it to as little as possible. It's everywhere.''
Consumers can reduce their exposure to formaldehyde by avoiding pressed-wood products or buying only those that are labeled as U.L.E.F. (ultra-low-emitting formaldehyde), N.A.F. (no added formaldehyde) or C.A.R.B. (California Air Resources Board) Phase 1 or Phase 2 compliant.
Styrene is mostly a concern for workers who build boats, car parts, bathtubs and shower stalls. Studies of workers exposed to high levels of styrene have found increased risks of leukemia and lymphoma and genetic damage to white blood cells. There is also some evidence that styrene increases the risks of cancer of the pancreas and esophagus among styrene workers, the report found. Consumers can be exposed to styrene from the fumes of building materials, photocopiers and tobacco smoke.
As for styrene's presence in plastic utensils and other consumer products, Dr. Brawley likened the risk from such products to that of coffee and cellphones -- uncertain and slight.
An industry spokesman said the action will hurt small businesses.
''It will unfairly scare workers, plant neighbors and could have a chilling effect on the development of new products,'' said Tom Dobbins of the American Composites Manufacturers Association. ''And our companies are primarily small businesses, and this could hurt jobs and local economies.''
Cal Dooley, president and chief executive of the American Chemistry Council, a trade association that represents companies that make and use polystyrene and formaldehyde, rejected the report's conclusions. ''We are extremely concerned that politics may have hijacked the scientific process,'' he said.
Some in the industry have promised to continue fighting the report, and will appeal elements of its findings. But some manufacturers already have begun using alternatives to formaldehyde in their products.
This is the 12th cancer list released by the toxicology program at the National Institutes of Health, and each has been controversial. In 2000, controversy erupted over the ninth report's listing of secondhand smoke and tanning beds. The 11th report's listing in 2005 of naphthalene, which is used in mothballs, caused similar concern.
That this latest report would warn about formaldehyde and styrene has been suspected by industry since shortly after the release of the previous report, and industry groups have fought the process behind its release ever since. As a result, the government added numerous public comment periods to the process, and even after it was written, officials at the Department of Health and Human Services delayed the report's release for months to cope with industry complaints.
''Industry held this report up for four years,'' said Jennifer Sass, a senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''They have tried to create the impression that there was real scientific uncertainty here, but there's not.''
The report also lists aristolochic acids, found in plants and sometimes used in herbal medicines, as a known carcinogen and added to the list of probable carcinogens other substances like captafol (a fungicide no longer sold in the United States), finely spun glass wool fibers (used in insulation), cobalt-tungsten carbide (used in manufacturing), riddelliine (plants eaten by cattle, horses and sheep) and ortho-nitrotoluene (used in dyes).
Aristolochic acids are sometimes used in herbal medicines to treat conditions like arthritis and gout. In 2001, the Food and Drug Administration warned against the use of products containing aristolochic acids after seeing an increase in kidney disease among users. Products using the chemical are Rheumixx and BioSlim Doctor's Natural Weight Loss System Slim Tone Formula.
Glass wool fibers are finely spun fibers of glass that form a mass resembling wool. They are commonly used for insulation or filtration, and people can be exposed to them when they install or remove insulation during home improvement projects. Animal studies have shown that glass wool fibers cause lung tumors, but there is little evidence from human studies of a risk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARCINOGENS (93%); ALDEHYDES (92%); CANCER (91%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); STYRENE (90%); LEUKEMIA (89%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); TOXICOLOGY (77%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (77%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); PLASTIC PLUMBING FIXTURES (76%); CHEMICALS (76%); CHEMICALS MFG (75%); COSMETICS (75%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (75%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (73%); LYMPHOMA (73%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (66%); ASTHMA (50%)

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



420 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Computer Studies Made Cool, On Film and Now on Campus

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
NEW HAVEN -- When Keila Fong arrived at Yale, she had never given much thought to computer science. But then last year everyone on campus started talking about the film ''The Social Network,'' and she began to imagine herself building something and starting a business that maybe, just maybe, could become the next Facebook.
''It's become very glamorous to become the next Mark Zuckerberg, and everyone likes to think they have some great idea,'' said Ms. Fong, a junior, who has since decided to major in Yale's newly energized computer science program.
Never mind that Mr. Zuckerberg, like other tech titans, did not major in computer science -- or even finish college. Enrollment in computer science programs, and degrees from them, are rising after a decade of decreases, despite much handwringing about the decline of American competitiveness in technology and innovation from President Obama on down. And educators and technologists say the inspiration is partly Hollywood's portrayal of the tech world, as well as celebrity entrepreneurs like Steven P. Jobs of Apple and Mr. Zuckerberg who make products that students use every day. 
''It's a national call, a Sputnik moment,'' said Mehran Sahami, associate chairman for computer science education at Stanford, referring to the Soviet satellite launching in 1957 that pushed the United States into the space race. ''Students are users of Facebook or Google, and they think about how the people who created it are not that much different than themselves. The realization that I can do this too is a powerful motivator.''
The number of computer science degrees awarded in the United States began rising in 2010, and will reach 11,000 this year, after plummeting each year since the end of the dot-com bubble in 2004, according to the Computing Research Association, which tracks enrollment and degrees. Enrollment in the major peaked around 2000, with the most degrees -- 21,000 -- awarded four years later. The number of students who are pursuing the degree but have not yet declared their major increased by 50 percent last year.
To capitalize on the growing cachet of the tech industry, colleges nationwide, including Stanford, the University of Washington and the University of Southern California, have recently revamped their computer science curriculums to attract iPhone and Facebook-obsessed students, and to banish the perception of the computer scientist as a geek typing code in a basement.
Even universities not known for computer science or engineering, like Yale, are seizing the moment. The deans of the Ivy League engineering schools recently started meeting to hatch ways to market ''the Ivy engineer.''
The new curriculums emphasize the breadth of careers that use computer science, as diverse as finance and linguistics, and the practical results of engineering, like iPhone apps, Pixar films and robots, a world away from the more theory-oriented curriculums of the past.
''The old-fashioned way of computer science is, 'We're going to teach you a bunch of stuff that is fundamental and will be long-lasting but we won't tell you how it's applied,' '' said Michael Zyda, director of the University of Southern California's GamePipe Laboratory, a new games program in the computer science major. With the rejuvenated classes, freshman enrollment in computer science at the university grew to 120 last year, from 25 in 2006.
Still, computer science graduates do not come close to filling the jobs available. Technology is one of the few bright spots in the economy, with jobs growing at double the rate of job growth over all, according to federal statistics. And colleges say they do not have enough resources or professors to teach interested students. Meanwhile, the programs woefully lag in attracting women and many minorities, though the share of computer science degrees granted to women climbed 2.5 percentage points last year to 14 percent.
Vint Cerf, Google's chief Internet evangelist, said that while mobile devices had fueled interest in building software, the excitement was nowhere near what he and his colleagues felt in the 1960s. ''It's still a problem,'' Mr. Cerf said.
But the numbers tell a hopeful story.
At Stanford, which has never lacked computer science students, majors nearly doubled after a new curriculum in 2008 let students choose a focus, like artificial intelligence. At the University of Washington, enrollment in the introductory computer science course is at a record high of 1,700. At Harvard, the size of the introductory computer science class has nearly quadrupled in five years. This year's course ended with an all-night ''hackathon'' with pizza, Chinese food and breakfast at IHOP.
To hook students, Yale computer science professors are offering freshman seminars with no prerequisites, like one on computer graphics, in which students learn the technical underpinnings of a Pixar movie.
''Historically this department has been very theory-oriented, but in the last few years, we're broadening the curriculum,'' said Julie Dorsey, a professor.
She also started a new major, computing and the arts, which combines computer science with art, theater or music to teach students how to scan and restore paintings or design theater sets.
Professors stress that concentrating on the practical applications of computer science does not mean teaching vocational skills like programming languages, which change rapidly. Instead, it means guiding students to tackle real-world problems and learn skills and theorems along the way.
''Once people are kind of subversively exposed to it, it's not someone telling you, 'You should program because you can be an engineer and do this in the future,' '' said Ms. Fong, the Yale student. ''It's, 'Solve this problem, build this thing and make this robot go from Point A to Point B,' and you gain the skill set associated with it.''
With other students, she has already founded a Web start-up, the Closer Grocer, which delivers groceries to dorms.
Some question whether the surge in interest is a passing fad fueled by frenzy over iPhone apps and LinkedIn's soaring initial public offering, just as enrollment in computer science spiked during the dot-com bubble of the late 1990s.
But educators say this time is different.
''What we're seeing now is a better-motivated upsurge,'' said Ed Lazowska, a professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Washington, ''students who understand that they really need to know this material.''
And the movie can't hurt, he said, because at least it has transformed the image of a programmer. Computer scientists are finally getting the treatment that doctors got with ''Grey's Anatomy'' and reporters with ''All the President's Men.''
''We've been saying for 15 years, 'If we could just get a show like the lawyer and doctor shows that make being a software person sexy,' '' Mr. Lazowska said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: High school students, above, considering science-related majors, visiting an engineering lab at Yale. Left, Keila Fong, a junior at Yale. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHART: The Facebook Factor: Interest in computer science has grown in recent years, reflected in a rebound of undergraduates majoring in the subject. (Source: Computing Research Association) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCIENCE (93%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); CURRICULA (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); CELEBRITIES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (62%); COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH (62%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (88%); STEVEN JOBS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Social Network, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



421 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Drug Bust

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW. 
Gail Collins is on book leave.

 BODY:
Friday marks the 40th anniversary of one of the biggest, most expensive, most destructive social policy experiments in American history: The war on drugs.
On the morning of June 17, 1971, President Richard Nixon, speaking from the Briefing Room of the White House, declared: ''America's public enemy No. 1 in the United States is drug abuse. In order to fight and defeat this enemy, it is necessary to wage a new, all-out offensive. I have asked the Congress to provide the legislative authority and the funds to fuel this kind of an offensive. This will be a worldwide offensive dealing with the problems of sources of supply, as well as Americans who may be stationed abroad, wherever they are in the world.'' 
So began a war that has waxed and waned, sputtered and sprinted, until it became an unmitigated disaster, an abomination of justice and a self-perpetuating, trillion-dollar economy of wasted human capital, ruined lives and decimated communities.
(Since 1971, more than 40 million arrests have been conducted for drug-related offenses.)
And no group has been more targeted and suffered more damage than the black community. As the A.C.L.U. pointed out last week, ''The racial disparities are staggering: despite the fact that whites engage in drug offenses at a higher rate than African-Americans, African-Americans are incarcerated for drug offenses at a rate that is 10 times greater than that of whites.''
An effort meant to save us from a form of moral decay became its own insidious brand of moral perversion -- turning people who should have been patients into prisoners, criminalizing victimless behavior, targeting those whose first offense was entering the world wrapped in the wrong skin. It feeds our achingly contradictory tendency toward prudery and our overwhelming thirst for punishment.
Last week, the Report of the Global Commission on Drug Policy, a 19-member commission that included Kofi Annan, a former U.N. secretary general; George Shultz, President Ronald Reagan's secretary of state; and Paul Volcker, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve, declared that: ''The global war on drugs has failed, with devastating consequences for individuals and societies around the world. Fifty years after the initiation of the U.N. Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, and 40 years after President Nixon launched the U.S. government's war on drugs, fundamental reforms in national and global drug control policies are urgently needed.''
The White House immediately shot back: no dice. The Obama administration presented a collection of statistics that compared current drug use and demand with the peak of the late 1970s, although a direct correlation between those declines and the drug war are highly debatable. In doing so, it completely sidestepped the human, economic and societal toll of the mass incarceration of millions of Americans, many for simple possession.
No need to put a human face on 40 years of folly when you can swaddle its inefficacy in a patchwork quilt of self-serving statistics.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Tragic Trajectory: Indicators of drug war performance spanning 1971 to 2012*. Not for all variables shown for all years. (Sources: Bureau of Justice Statistics, National Drug Control Budget) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (94%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (87%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); RACE & RACISM (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF JUSTICE STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (77%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



422 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: President to Nominate Vice Chairman of F.D.I.C. to Lead It

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama said Friday that he would nominate Martin J. Gruenberg to run the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the agency that guarantees bank deposits and cleans up failed banks. 
The announcement is the administration's first effort since last year to address the growing number of vacancies atop the agencies that regulate the financial industry. The White House still must submit more than half a dozen names to the Senate to fill other vacant top-level positions.
Mr. Gruenberg, a Democrat, has served as the agency's vice chairman since 2005. He would replace Sheila C. Bair, who completes a five-year term as chairwoman in July. She has guided the F.D.I.C. to greater prominence and power through fierce advocacy for consumers and community banks.
Republicans have forced the withdrawal of Mr. Obama's two most recent nominations for regulatory positions, but Mr. Gruenberg is viewed as a likely candidate to break that blockade. He worked for years as a Democratic staff member on the banking committee, which will consider his nomination, and maintains good personal relationships with members of both parties.
Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who is chairman of the committee, issued a statement applauding the nomination and promising swift action.
''I am confident that his intellect and years of experience in financial services, including distinguished service on the staff of the Senate Banking Committee, will make him an outstanding chairman,'' said Mr. Johnson. ''It is vital that we have strong leaders in place at our financial regulators as we continue the economic recovery.''
The office of the ranking Republican, Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, did not respond to a request for comment.
Mr. Gruenberg joined the F.D.I.C. after working for more than a decade as a senior counsel to former Senator Paul S. Sarbanes.
Mr. Gruenberg has since provided reliable support for Ms. Bair in her frequent clashes with other regulators, as the F.D.I.C. has pressed for increased consumer protections, stricter rules for large banks -- and leniencies for the smaller state-chartered banks that the F.D.I.C. is charged with overseeing.
''Marty's long tenure at the F.D.I.C. and significant expertise in financial services issues make him an outstanding selection for this position,'' Ms. Bair said.
The White House still must fill three vacancies on the F.D.I.C.'s five-member board. Two of those seats are held by the heads of other regulatory agencies, the Comptroller of the Currency and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. One is the vice chairman's slot left open by Mr. Gruenberg.
Tradition dictates that the vice chairman not be a member of the president's political party. Mr. Obama is considering a number of Republican candidates, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The White House also is considering the nomination of the F.D.I.C.'s other board member, Thomas J. Curry, to head the comptroller's office, which regulates most of the nation's large banks.
Mr. Curry, a political independent, is a former commissioner of banks in Massachusetts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martin J. Gruenberg, vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SHEILA BAIR (78%); TIM JOHNSON (57%); RICHARD SHELBY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011



423 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Ideologies That Fail Upwards

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Doing doing that voodoo, no matter how often it fails. 

 BODY:
CBPP reminds us that the Bush tax cuts totally failed to deliver, even before the financial collapse:
And the story is even worse for believers in tax-cut magic if you include the Clinton years; some of us remember the confident predictions that the 1993 tax hike would lead to a catastrophic recession.
You might have thought that an ideology that failed so dramatically would have been to at least some extent abandoned. But noooo: belief in tax-cut magic is central to the Ryan plan, and aspiring GOP candidates like Pawlenty seem to be in a race to see who can go more overboard in supply-side faith. Oh, and if you don't believe their claims, you don't trust the American people.
What will it take before the GOP drops voodoo as its official religion?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); TAX INCREASES (73%); RELIGION (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



424 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: Relevance

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times Recent developments among candidates on the right have intensified questions for those in charge of Iowa's Republican caucuses about how relevant the outcome will be. Newt Gingrich's entire Iowa staff resigned this week, Mitt Romney announced Thursday that he would skip the state's Republican straw poll and Jon M. Hunstman Jr. conceded that he was likely to skip the Iowa caucuses altogether. The Times's Michael D. Shear reports on signs that the state's influence on the nominating process could be ebbing, and the nature of the voters who tend to turn out for the Republican caucuses is discouraging some candidates from competing there. Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi sent a thank-you note to Congress for criticizing President Obama in a resolution that was passed last week over his involvement in the NATO-led military campaign in Libya. "I want to express my sincere gratitude for your thoughtful discussion of the issues," Colonel Qaddafi wrote in the letter, a copy of which was supplied to The Times by a person seeking to defend the administration's policy. He expressed hope that the lawmakers would continue to pressure the administration, although the resolution that was submitted by Speaker John A. Boehner did not advocate withdrawing from the operation, The Times's Mark Landler reports. As more gay men and lesbians from both parties seek public office, one group is becoming a force behind the trend, raising money, providing advice and endorsing candidates. The Times's Sheryl Gay Stolberg reports on the Gay and Lesbian Victory Fund and its crash course in campaign strategies that offer stark evidence of how far gay and lesbian politicians have come - and how quickly. Some 24,000 e-mails of Sarah Palin's were released by the State of Alaska on Friday, showing in minute detail how she went overnight from being a small-state governor midway through her first term to a dominant figure in Republican politics. The Times's Jim Rutenberg and William Yardley report from Juneau, Alaska, on the unusual event that provides an intimate look into a governor's day-to-day interactions and draws criticism from Ms. Palin's supporters of the intense media scrutiny surrounding the documents.
Weekly Address This week's address came in the wake of the president's announcement of an agreement between the private sector, colleges and the National Association of Manufacturers that will make it possible for 500,000 community college students to get an industry-approved manufacturing credential. "If you're a company that's hiring, you'll know that anyone who has this degree has the skills you're looking for," he said. "If you're a student considering community college, you'll know that your diploma will give you a leg up in the job market." He used the new initiative to promote his efforts to revive the still-sluggish economy. His goal, he said, is not to rely on the government for job creation, but to partner with the private sector to spur growth. "These are steps we know will make a difference in people's lives - not just 20 years from now, or 10 years from now, but now, and in the months to come," he said.Around the Web The scandal surrounding Representative Anthony D. Weiner of New York has started a different kind of trend on Twitter - members of Congress have changed their tweeting habits and become even more cautious with messages sent over the social networking site. Lawmakers have tweeted 30 percent less after Mr. Weiner's accident, The Atlantic reports.Happenings Around Washington For the 16th straight week, Libyan-Americans will have a demonstration in Lafayette Park to show solidarity with the people of Libya. A group of American history enthusiasts will host a viewing of a Civil War-era passenger balloon on the National Mall.

        
The Early Word: Derailed
        
The Early Word: Competition
        
The Early Word: Replacement
        
The Early Word: Rebuked
        
The Early Word: Warning

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (83%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); TRENDS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (95%); ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



425 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Don't Quit This Day Job

BYLINE: By KAREN S. SIBERT. 
Karen S. Sibert is an anesthesiologist.

 BODY:
Los Angeles
I'M a doctor and a mother of four, and I've always practiced medicine full time. When I took my board exams in 1987, female doctors were still uncommon, and we were determined to work as hard as any of the men.
Today, however, increasing numbers of doctors -- mostly women -- decide to work part time or leave the profession. Since 2005 the part-time physician workforce has expanded by 62 percent, according to recent survey data from the American Medical Group Association, with nearly 4 in 10 female doctors between the ages of 35 and 44 reporting in 2010 that they worked part time.
This may seem like a personal decision, but it has serious consequences for patients and the public.
Medical education is supported by federal and state tax money both at the university level -- student tuition doesn't come close to covering the schools' costs -- and at the teaching hospitals where residents are trained. So if doctors aren't making full use of their training, taxpayers are losing their investment. With a growing shortage of doctors in America, we can no longer afford to continue training doctors who don't spend their careers in the full-time practice of medicine. 
It isn't fashionable (and certainly isn't politically correct) to criticize ''work-life balance'' or part-time employment options. How can anyone deny people the right to change their minds about a career path and choose to spend more time with their families? I have great respect for stay-at-home parents, and I think it's fine if journalists or chefs or lawyers choose to work part time or quit their jobs altogether. But it's different for doctors. Someone needs to take care of the patients.
The Association of American Medical Colleges estimates that, 15 years from now, with the ranks of insured patients expanding, we will face a shortage of up to 150,000 doctors. As many doctors near retirement and aging baby boomers need more and more medical care, the shortage gets worse each year.
The decline in doctors' pay is part of the problem. As we look at Medicare and Medicaid spending cuts, we need to be careful not to drive the best of the next generation away from medicine and into, say, investment banking.
But the productivity of the doctors currently practicing is also an important factor. About 30 percent of doctors in the United States are female, and women received 48 percent of the medical degrees awarded in 2010. But their productivity doesn't match that of men. In a 2006 survey by the American Medical Association and the Association of American Medical Colleges, even full-time female doctors reported working on average 4.5 fewer hours each week and seeing fewer patients than their male colleagues. The American Academy of Pediatrics estimates that 71 percent of female pediatricians take extended leave at some point -- five times higher than the percentage for male pediatricians.
This gap is especially problematic because women are more likely to go into primary care fields -- where the doctor shortage is most pronounced -- than men are. Today 53 percent of family practice residents, 63 percent of pediatric residents and nearly 80 percent of obstetrics and gynecology residents are female. In the low-income areas that lack primary and prenatal care, there are more emergency room visits, more preventable hospitalizations and more patients who die of treatable conditions. Foreign doctors emigrate to the United States to help fill these positions, but this drains their native countries of desperately needed medical care.
If medical training were available in infinite supply, it wouldn't matter how many doctors worked part time or quit, because there would always be new graduates to fill their spots. But medical schools can only afford to accept a fraction of the students who apply.
An even tighter bottleneck exists at the level of residency training. Residents don't pay tuition; they are paid to work at teaching hospitals. Their salaries are supported by Medicare, which pays teaching hospitals about $9 billion a year for resident salaries and teaching costs as well as patient care.
In 1997, Congress imposed a cap on how many medical residencies the government could subsidize as part of the Balanced Budget Act. Last year, the Senate failed to pass an amendment to the health care bill that would have created thousands of new residency positions. Even if American medical schools could double their graduating classes, there wouldn't be additional residency positions for the new doctors. Federal and state financing to expand medical education will be hard to find in today's economic and political climate.
We often hear the argument that nurse practitioners, nurse anesthetists and physician assistants can stand in for doctors and provide cheaper care. But when critical decisions must be made, patients want a fully qualified doctor to lead the health care team.
Policy makers could encourage more doctors to stay in the profession by reforming the malpractice system to protect them from frivolous lawsuits, safeguarding their pay from further Medicare cuts and lightening the burden of bureaucratic regulations and paperwork. And in a perfect world, hospitals and clinics could keep more female doctors working full time by setting up child care centers -- with long operating hours -- on site.
In the meantime, we can only depend on doctors' own commitment to the profession.
Students who aspire to go to medical school should think about the consequences if they decide to work part time or leave clinical medicine. It's fair to ask them -- women especially -- to consider the conflicting demands that medicine and parenthood make before they accept (and deny to others) sought-after positions in medical school and residency. They must understand that medical education is a privilege, not an entitlement, and it confers a real moral obligation to serve.
I recently spoke with a college student who asked me if anesthesiology is a good field for women. She didn't want to hear that my days are unpredictable because serious operations can take a long time and emergency surgery often needs to be done at night. What she really wanted to know was if my working life was consistent with her rosy vision of limited work hours and raising children. I doubt that she welcomed my parting advice: If you want to be a doctor, be a doctor.
You can't have it all. I never took cupcakes to my children's homerooms or drove carpool, but I read a lot of bedtime stories and made it to soccer games and school plays. I've ridden roller coasters with my son, danced at my oldest daughter's wedding and rocked my first grandson to sleep. Along the way, I've worked full days and many nights, and brought a lot of very sick patients through long, difficult operations.
Patients need doctors to take care of them. Medicine shouldn't be a part-time interest to be set aside if it becomes inconvenient; it deserves to be a life's work.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RIIKKA SORMUNEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (95%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); AGING TRENDS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); TUITION FEES (74%); MEDICARE (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); MEDICAID (70%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



426 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FIRST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: STICKER SHOCK AND AWE

BYLINE: By AMANDA FORTINI. 
Amanda Fortini is a writer who lives in Livingston, Mont.

 BODY:
Saturday night, Las Vegas. In this mecca of extreme retail, shops remain open as late as midnight, like fancy bodegas, because even a craving for Balenciaga ballet flats should have the option of satisfying itself on demand. While overall consumer spending still hasn't recovered from the recession, there are signs that luxury spending may be on the rise. High-end retailers (Tiffany & Company, Hermes, Saks Inc.) have reported first-quarter gains. In America, analysts note, the wealthiest 2 percent of the population has been doing most of the buying. Where does this leave Las Vegas, purveyor of luxury for the masses?
A trickle of pedestrians, some of them glinting in cocktail attire, many of them well on their way to being drunk, are crossing the footbridge that leads from the chic new Cosmopolitan hotel to Crystals, the soaring cathedral of ultra-high-end shopping. Crystals is the Rodeo Drive of the desert. Its tenants include Tiffany & Company, Cartier, Harry Winston, H. Stern, Van Cleef & Arpels, Mikimoto and Bulgari. And those are just the jewelers. 
Crystals is also the dark heart of CityCenter, the $8.5 billion, 67-acre resort and entertainment complex that has become a legendary symbol of prerecession hubris. Conceived of in 2004 by MGM Mirage, CityCenter was to be the largest privately financed construction project in American history, a conglomeration of hotels, restaurants, retail shops and condominiums. But it had the poor timing to open in December 2009, in the thick of the recession, in a city that has seen some of the highest unemployment and foreclosure rates in the nation. Many of its condos languish unfilled. Who needs one in a sea of cheap hotel rooms?
At Crystals' massive, multilevel Prada store, a blond saleswoman outfitted in black, a dainty diamond charm at her neck, chats on her cellphone in Russian. As she talks, she languidly rolls her head from side to side as though stretching for a 5K run. Her name is Olga, she tells me, when I finally catch her attention. Here, on the first of three floors that make up this 23,000-square-foot store, there are exactly three human beings: Olga, a male security guard and me. ''Is it ever busy at this time of night?'' I ask. ''If it wasn't, I don't think we would stay open,'' Olga tells me sharply.
The deserted second floor is a mirrored gallery of shoes. The emptiness, the exhibitlike display of merchandise and the bizarrely lifelike mannequins (posed as though engrossed in trying on shoes, with creepy humanoid hair gathered into Princess Leia buns) combine to create the feeling of a mall-based sequel to ''Night at the Museum.'' A young salesman bobs up out of nowhere, like a plastic toy in a bath. He has been striding up the down escalator, possibly to pass the time. ''How are you tonight?'' I ask him. ''Amazing,'' he says. ''Why amazing?'' I ask. ''Why not? Livin' the dream,'' he replies happily, without a hint of sarcasm. His uncomplicated optimism causes me to choke up, suddenly, with some unnameable emotion.
Perhaps there's something poignant about shopping anywhere right now, at this moment when the American consumer is so beleaguered. But Las Vegas -- in its tendency to dilate every phenomenon to its supersize extreme -- has produced the saddest shopping center on the planet. Crystals is the world's most splendid ghost mall.
That's not to say that Crystals is devoid of people, only that the people shopping at Crystals seem devoid of spirit. The handful who have come to stroll its echoing arcades -- the couples sipping from three-foot-long bong-shaped plastic tubes of alcohol, the wandering party girls wearing handkerchief-size dresses purchased at H&M or Target -- rarely enter a store. And who can blame them? The shops are intimidating showcases, as forbidding and isolating as empty stages. Standing in Louis Vuitton or Gucci surrounded by woefully understimulated salespeople is like eating a meal in a restaurant when you're the only customer and the owner is hovering beside your table, asking how you like your food.
At Roberto Cavalli, where an $18,500 sparkly blue evening gown hangs near a $21,500 chinchilla bolero shrug (''It's not inexpensive,'' says a middle-aged man as he examines it), I ask the saleswoman: Who buys this stuff? She looks at me as though I am an alien, an idiot, and says nothing. ''Celebrities?'' I venture. ''Anyone,'' she replies, grimacing with disdain. Never mind that I haven't seen anyone make a single purchase all evening.
Yet the lack of visible shoppers doesn't necessarily mean that no one is buying. A recent article in Vegas Inc, a Las Vegas business magazine, argued that the purchasing of luxury goods no longer occurs out in the open: customers are apparently ''shopping in stores' private rooms while sipping chilled Champagne from elegant glass flutes, or having stacks of couture delivered to their hotel rooms high above the Strip, or sending their personal shoppers to the stores hours before the elegant retailers open.'' As the retail consultant Pamela Joy Ring told Vegas Inc, ''It's more about what you're not seeing in these malls than what you are.''
At another boutique with Italian origins, a dark-haired saleswoman tells me that their typical patrons are ''internationals.'' Another, a blonde with diamond rings on both of her second toes, shows me two silk gowns that cost $7,995 each and says, ''Casino owners buy these for their wives.'' The brown dress, I'm told, Eva Longoria wore to an awards ceremony. But surely Eva Longoria (who happens to be a co-owner of Eve and of Beso, the nightclub and restaurant at one end of Crystals that filed for bankruptcy protection in January) isn't keeping the store afloat by herself. What about less glitzy sorts? ''A lot of people come in and say, 'I love that dress!' and when you tell them it costs $1,200, they turn around and walk out without saying anything,'' the first woman says. ''What do you think,'' she says as she turns to address her colleague, ''that's 70 percent of the people?''
Las Vegas may cater to the high-rolling rich, but its mainstay has long been the middle class from Middle America it makes to feel like royalty. And experts who study the retail industry say that shoppers who are well-off but not rich have significantly curbed their luxury spending. ''Back in the boom years of 2006 and 2007, they were living large and viewing themselves as more affluent,'' says the luxury-market specialist Pam Danziger. ''Now they have to go back to spending their real income. And that means, from their perspective, that they view themselves as distinctly and decidedly middle-class.'' Gone are the days of charging a status watch or an ''it'' bag on the credit card. Gone are the days of buying simply because the attenuating hotel mirrors and the oxygenated casino air make you feel like the best, most glamorous version of yourself, innately deserving of the finer things. Gone, it seems, are the days of shopping as entertainment. At least here. To be fun, a mall needs the cheerful bustle of actual commerce.
Crystals is a monument to a more aspirational era. Some retailers, however, have begun to realize that consumers now have less-lofty goals. The weekend I visited Las Vegas, a 60,000-square-foot H&M celebrated its grand opening at the Forum Shops at Caesars Palace, asserting its middle-brow right to reside among Burberry, Valentino and Christian Dior. Meanwhile, the boutiques at the Cosmopolitan, which opened in December, are more Elizabeth Street than Madison Avenue, emphasizing products that are unique rather than expensive. ''Because of the time that we were opening, we'd had the opportunity to see that luxury in the eye of the consumer has been redefined,'' said John Unwin, C.E.O. of the Cosmopolitan hotel. ''We mostly targeted items that were between $40 and $400. That's what we thought was the sweet spot.''
Las Vegas is scaling back its bets but staying in the game. Among the locals, the dominant attitude is one of cautious, white-knuckled hopefulness. ''Next year,'' a cab driver told me, ''it should be good.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES JOYCE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); JEWELRY (76%); RESTAURANTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); RESORTS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); HISTORY (65%); FORECLOSURE (64%); RUNNING (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (91%); SAKS INC (72%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (67%); VAN CLEEF & ARPELS INC (55%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (91%); SKS (NYSE) (72%); MGM (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (91%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (91%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (67%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



427 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 4740 words

HEADLINE: THE GETAWAY CAR

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABAN

 BODY:
For a long time now, I've been looking forward to this year with apprehension: 2011 is when my daughter, Julia, now 18, will undertake that very American rite of passage and ''go away to college'' -- a phrase whose operative word is ''away.'' We live in Seattle, and in the Pacific Northwest, ''collegeland,'' as my daughter calls it, is centered in New England and New York, where most of her immediate friends will be going in September.
Though I've lived for 21 years in the U.S., I still have an Englishman's stunted sense of distance. I think of 300 miles as a long journey, and all through last summer and fall, I would wake at 4 a.m. to sweat over the prospect of losing my daughter -- my best companion, my anchor to the United States, the person with whom I've had the longest, most absorbing relationship of my adult life -- to some unimaginably distant burg on the East Coast. So I was as elated as she was when she heard she'd been accepted by Stanford, her first choice. Same coast, same time zone -- Within driving distance was the thought I clung to. 
Interstate highways dull the reality of place and distance almost as effectively as jetliners do: I loathe their scary monotony. I wanted to make palpable the mileage that will stretch between us come September and feel on my own pulse the physical geography of our separation. We would take the coast road and mark out the wriggly, thousand-mile track that leads from my workroom to her future dorm in California.
Julia and I are old hands at taking road trips on her spring breaks, and stuffing our bags into the inadequate trunk of my two-seater convertible on a damp Sunday morning in early April, I sensed that this one might turn out to be our last. In the same car, or its identical predecessor, we'd driven to the Baja peninsula, the Grand Canyon, eastern Montana, British Columbia, on minor roads and with the top down, to open us as far as possible to the world we traveled through.
The rain that morning was the fine-sifted Northwest drizzle that grays this corner of the country for weeks on end; too heavy for the windshield wipers on intermittent and too light for slow, when the wipers skreak and whine on dry glass. To quicken us on our way, I steeled myself to take the Interstate as far as Olympia, the state capital, 60 miles to the southwest, from where we'd branch out to the coast. On the freeway, tire rumble and the kerchunk-kerchunk of our hard suspension's rattling over expansion joints made conversation impossible, and the car felt as small as a pill bug, likely to be squashed flat by the next 18-wheeler. Julia wired herself to her iPod.
She was 3, going on 4, when her mother and I separated, and she could barely remember a time when she hadn't commuted between two Seattle houses, twice a week, under the terms of the joint-custody agreement. First she moved with her stuffed bear, then with bear plus live dog; nowadays she traveled with so much stuff that she looked like an overladen packhorse when she staggered out the door with it. College offered her the promise of a life more secure and regular than any she had known since 1996 -- an end to all that house-to-school-to-the-other-house gypsying that she managed with forbearing grace. Much as I feared her going away, I knew what a luxury it would be for her to have her books, clothes and bed in one room for the length of a college quarter.
Above the level, industrial sprawl of auto dealerships, self-storage units, U-Haul depots and the like, the colossal bulk of Mount Rainier appeared, then disappeared, then reappeared as a pale shadow on the sky. The volcano's next eruption might send mudflows down the river valleys that would submerge much of the low-lying, densely populated terrain between Seattle and Tacoma. Coming from a country where the earth's crust is relatively quiescent, I'm stirred by the ongoing geological violence of the West Coast, where the tectonic plates of the ocean bed continuously rub against and collide with the continental, North American plate. Our trip south would lead through the Cascadia subduction zone, then down the line of the San Andreas fault, through a crumpled landscape of fracture, rift and upheaval.
Freed from the Interstate, we headed due west on a road, quiet for Sunday, that led through dairy farms and plantations of second- or third-growth Douglas firs. The rain steadily thickened. You might have mistaken the trees for forest, but they were all roughly the same height, their trunks of the same diameter. Here and there in the dark undergrowth lay the rotting remains of enormous stumps; all that was left of the original fir and western red cedar forest, now supplanted by so-called tree farms run by timber companies like Weyerhaeuser. Julia had removed her earbuds and was looking out the rain-streaked window, her expression hard to read.
''What's in your head, Bird?''
''Oh, just a kind of nostalgia, I guess.''
''Homesick already?''
''I was thinking of how bare and dry California will seem after Washington.''
Rounding a bend, we were met by the shock of a not-so-recent clear-cut, the hills on either side of the road reduced to stumps and piles of slash. Beyond the clear-cut, as the road ran down toward Willapa Bay, we passed the first of the tsunami-warning signs that would keep us company all the way down the coast: a curling white wave against a blue background, chasing a stylized human figure running up a hill. Seen so soon after the Japanese earthquake and tsunami of March 11, the warnings had a sharpened vitality: the Cascadia subduction zone is capable of producing quakes equal to the magnitude-9.0 temblor that raised the 30-foot wave that drowned the coast of eastern Japan. It's no bad thing to be insistently reminded every few miles that our flimsy tenure here can be ended in seconds by a slight technical adjustment in the crust beneath our feet.
We ran out over the four-mile bridge across the Columbia River estuary that joins Washington State to Astoria in Oregon. The tide was ebbing fast, and the tan-colored water, breaking in short, steep waves against a stiffening wind from the west, exposed a maze of glass-smooth sandbanks close inshore. Astoria was lost behind a veil of rain. Julia, for whom this trip was also a project for her 12th-grade photography class, focused her camera on the city as bits and pieces of it became distinct, framed by the cross-braced girders of the elevated main span on the Oregon side.
Route 101 winds down the Oregon coast for 350 miles. That rainswept Sunday, the splendors of the coast, preserved in a string of state parks, where we drove through stands of hemlock, fir, madrona and lodgepole pine on low bluffs immediately above the ocean, were offset by the forlorn air of the straggling resort towns that punctuated them. Colored flags, frayed and sodden, held rigid by the wind, said, ''Open'' and ''Welcome'' and ''Antiques'' and ''Donuts'' and ''Gallery'' and ''Sale'' but attracted no customers. Every motel had an illuminated vacancy sign. Many businesses were shuttered -- some for the season; some, by the looks of them, forever.
The wind built to near gale force, diagonal rain overwhelmed the wipers, and driving felt like heavy-weather sailing as we ran through the long, centerless sprawl of Lincoln City, an out-of-focus blur of tossing stoplights, where Julia spotted a flag blazoned with the face of Jesus Christ and the message ''PERHAPS TODAY,'' like a tsunami warning. This was the coldest, wettest spring on record in the Northwest, and it was hammering the Oregon coast's tourist industry. Would-be visitors, those undeterred by recession and the leap in gas prices, were being kept home by the vile weather. More towns went by, nixed as overnight stops because they appeared too desolate to be bearable. Finally we stopped at Yachats, more compact and lively looking than its neighbors, its main street sloping down to the Yachats River in a broad S-bend. The motel parking lot was empty, the two-bedded room big and bare, within sight and sound of the monotonous clamor of the surf that broke a couple of blocks beyond the window.
The previous week, Julia passed her driver's test -- but in her mother's car, an automatic. We planned that on this trip she would learn to drive a stick shift, and the motel lot seemed a good site for the first lesson. She put her feet in the right places, started the car in neutral and shifted into first, and for a millisecond the car leapt forward, as if in the starting grid at Indianapolis, then shuddered horribly and stalled. She tried again, and again, with similar results, as I watched her face blanch and her teeth lock over her lower lip. After 15 minutes of lurching back and forth around the lot, she handed me the keys, saying, ''I'm going to learn this, but for the sake of your sanity, my sanity and our relationship, I need to do it slowly.''
At the restaurant just down the street, a fleet of colored umbrellas hung from the ceiling, a guitarist sang American standards from the '60s and '70s and departing diners had to stop at several tables to say good night on their way out. Julia said, ''What I really need to know is exactly how a clutch works.''
I wouldn't recognize a clutch if I saw one in a repair shop. I made a cockamamie diagram on a paper napkin: engine, drive shaft, rear axle, with an egg-shaped mystery labeled ''transmission,'' and rattled on vaguely about how the clutch engaged and disengaged the power of the engine.
''Yes, but how does it work?''
''Perhaps I can explain it better after a glass of wine. Or not, as the case may be.''
''Don't worry,'' she said, ''I'll Google it.''
The next morning, the sky was clear, the air was calm and the long ocean swell rolled smoothly to the surf line. We fell into our old road-trip routine: the quick pack; the patrol of bedroom and bathroom, with me searching for her overlooked stuff and she for mine; the parking of our keys on the dresser; the early getaway. Fifty miles down the road, we stopped for breakfast in Reedsport, then put the top down. I borrowed Julia's sunglasses, and we sped south, the sea lost to view behind a broad band of high sand dunes, heaped up and molded by the wind. Every few miles, we'd cross a bridge over another grand river -- the Siuslaw, the Umpqua, the Coos, the Coquille, the Rogue. Most of these bridges were part of a single New Deal project, the development of the Oregon Coast Highway. Their bold and graceful engineering was in violent contrast to the rickety, improvised architecture of the towns they linked, many of which looked as if they were put together by an odd-jobs man with a hammer and a box of nails.
We slid through the recession-battered city of Coos Bay, where I remembered the wide inner harbor as busy with ships in the early '90s. Now I saw just one small cargo vessel on its far side.
The road hiked inland for a while and reconnected with the sea at Bandon, a town that had memories for me: we stayed in a beach cottage here in 1994, and I could see Julia, a tiny figure in forsythia-yellow rain gear, with gumboots and sou'wester to match, being first appalled then thrilled by the ocean as she faced the growling surf after a big storm.
''You were proud of the word 'creature' and applied it to everything -- crabs, shrimps, sea anemones, starfish. 'Creature running,' 'Creature sucking,' 'Creature swimming.'. . .''
Julia disentangled herself from her iPod. ''Sorry, what did you say?''
Port Orford. . . . Gold Beach. . . . Brookings. . . . The towns went past, unstopped at, as the road, now running straight and level beside the shore, now threading sinuously around the edge of a rocky hillside that fell steeply to the sea, led at last to the gold-lettered sign saying, ''Welcome to California.''
Whether the change of state primed us to look for them, or whether they really began there, redwoods made themselves suddenly visible: much taller than Douglas firs, their coarse bark grooved and knotted like the overmuscled torso of a body builder, these California trees, seen in warm sunlight that dappled the pavement through their branches, made Julia's college, still nearly 500 miles to the south, now seem very near.
In late October, she and I visited the campus, taking the 90-minute flight from Seattle to San Francisco and renting a car at the airport. We were trespassers then, cautiously intruding on an alien but seductive world.
''I felt that just being there and liking it was going to jinx my application,'' Julia said, as we bowled through a stretch of farmland near Crescent City.
This time, it would be different. She'd be staying in a dorm and going to classes with her student host, with whom she had been exchanging e-mails all week. She talked about the two freshmen whose room she'd be sharing, one from California, the other from Brooklyn, and their varying degrees of ''chill.'' As she began to take possession of her new life, I felt her rising excitement almost as my own.
The road was a freeway now, skirting towns that were just names on exit signs. I turned off for Eureka, whose old downtown was repaved and gussied up for the tourist trade with the usual assortment of boutiques and gift shops. We passed a few exuberantly Californian, 19th-century houses, built in witchy Victorian gothic to exhibit what grotesque marvels could be perpetrated on redwood with lathe and chisel. We found a room, with old furniture and thin curtains, in a mildly down-at-heel hotel that dated to 1888 and had an ''Irish pub'' on its ground floor, where I sat at the bar while Julia left with her camera to hike around the town.
I asked for a Bushmills and water, no ice. I was 50 when Julia was born. What I needed now was the equanimity with which a normal, 50-year-old father would bring to his daughter's going off to college. The whiskey failed to help with the impossible math.
That night, we talked dorms and courses over dinner.
''It's the special-dorm thing that worries me,'' Julia said. ''Everyone says you make your closest friends in freshman year, and if I take S.L.E.'' -- Structured Liberal Education -- ''I'll be walled up with all these other humanities types and losing out on people who are going to major in physics or engineering or computer science or whatever. But I'm still trying to keep an open mind. That's one of the things I really need to ask about on Thursday.''
Immediately below our hotel was a dark vacant lot on the waterfront, where she took over the driver's seat again and lurched over the uneven ground, stalling less than on the previous evening. But her heart wasn't in the exercise. If I had expected her to become my co-driver on the trip, she clearly wanted to remain the passenger, and I thought that this stick-shift business might be the last remnant of childish dependency on her father's adult skills. I wasn't against that. After a half-dozen circuits of the lot, we swapped places. I wondered if the same thought had occurred to her.
On Tuesday, a thin sea fog fuzzed the outlines of Eureka when we set off but was lost as the road began to climb into the forested hills of the coast range, where redwood worship appeared to be the local religion and a considerable source of tourist dollars. Ignoring garish posterboards for ''The Drive-Thru Tree,'' we stuck to the highway, passing roadside stands selling painted chainsaw sculptures of bears and other animals, some so large that it would take a 6-liter, V-8 truck to carry off your purchase.
The hucksterism stopped when we turned off at Leggett for Highway 1, taking the long way around to San Francisco. The road, narrow as an English country lane, looped and wound through mixed woodland over the steeply ridged low mountains. Bluebells, ferns and nettles were overhung with trees that turned the road into a dark cloister, intermittently penetrated by shafts of sunlight. Medicinal whiffs of eucalyptus came from the woods. It was like driving through a folktale, without the woodcutters and charcoal burners. Invisible and to me unidentifiable birds chattered in the spring foliage overhead; otherwise, nothing -- no cars, no people, no houses in sight.
I'd never been disappointed by the sight of the Pacific, but when the road arrived at an open clifftop, where a big R.V. was parked on a scenic pullout, the ocean, barely alive under the midday sun, was tinged with the banality of seasides everywhere. Then, as the road resumed its anfractuous course, clinging to the extreme margin of this tumbled and chaotic coast, the fun began. It was impossible to count the roller-coaster climbs and downward swoops; ravines skirted; rivers ingeniously bridged; bends tight as the loops in a thumbprint; naked rockfaces; cliff-edge encounters, hundreds of feet above the ocean, each of which induced a sickly pang of vertigo. For brief intervals, the road flattened and ran more or less straight across a marine terrace -- once a beach but lately, a few million years ago, violently upthrust in one of the myriad geological convulsions that shaped western California's boisterous and disorderly character. Here, placid cattle grazed on gently sloping uplands in the sun, but 60 seconds later I would be back to steering intently, continuously changing gear and thankful, for both our sakes, that I, not Julia, was at the wheel.
In gullies and ravines, large blackish raptors, six or seven at a time, soared in circles, tilting from side to side on stiff, outstretched wings, each at a different altitude from the others, like planes stacked above an airport. Turkey vultures, I thought, and I admired the air of waitful menace they brought to a landscape in which a moment of miscalculation could turn us into carrion for the birds.
Taking a hook-shaped bend too fast and too wide, and stupidly hitting the brake in midmaneuver, made me realize that we had better stay the night at the next available town. At Jenner, where the Russian River makes its slantwise junction with the ocean, I stopped at the inn. The woman at the desk walked us out to an elderly two-story vacation house. Grander than our usual quarters, shrouded in green stuff, with white calla lilies in bloom at its front and a rufous hummingbird zipping from bush to bush, the house was pleasantly furnished in a scruffy-genteel way; the sort of place where the patrician absence of a TV adds to the price. As we went in, I asked the woman about the local wildlife.
''I live 12 miles away, but we get black bears, cougars, bobcats. . . .''
Julia bagged the upstairs bedroom and went off on a photographic walk.
The bar and dining room at the inn were closed for the season. We ate in an Indian restaurant on the far side of the river, pleased more by the view (two low-flying vultures circling outside the window) than by the food, and tried to answer Julia's question of why ''California is so Californian, even in its most rural parts.''
It was dark when we got back to the house. Wherever we stayed, Julia took long-exposure night shots of everything she had photographed that afternoon, and she went upstairs to fetch her camera and tripod from her room. From the chilly porch, I looked out into the thick, country darkness. The moon, two days after full, had risen over the mountains to the southeast but was so low in the sky that it cast precious little light on Jenner. The inn was dark, and the woods seemed to have crowded in around us. I begged Julia to skip tonight's photography session.
''It'll spoil the series. Anyway, it's perfectly safe.''
''You don't know that. Remember, 'Black bears, cougars, bobcats'?''
We wrangled over this for a minute or two, then Julia, with an irritated sigh, said, ''O.K., if you really, really don't want me to go, I won't,'' and began to take her gear upstairs again.
''No,'' I said, ''I'm being silly. You go. Please. Go.''
''Really?''
''Really. But take care. Listen for noises. For God's sake, don't go into the bushes or the woods.''
She padded across the lawn and faded into the dark.
I stood on the deck, listening -- for what, I didn't know. I heard a truck go by on Highway 1 and saw the sweep of its lights. Then nothing. I passionately willed Julia to return out of the deep silence, wine glass trembling in my hand. When she did, after a long age, she said cheerily: ''Well, at least you made me really paranoid about cougars. I spent half the time looking behind me.''
She went up to bed. I still had the jitters and sat at the dining table trying to read. It didn't take long to see that my near hysteria had little to do with bears and cougars; it was all about my own shabby self-interest and the solitude in which I would be engulfed when she went away to college. That night I slept poorly and woke, groggy and chastened, to a damp morning of Pacific Northwestern gray.
We breakfasted at Bodega Bay, a dozen miles south of Jenner, in a restaurant hung with stills and posters from ''The Birds,'' which Hitchcock filmed here in 1962. Julia had never seen this tale of nature rising to revenge itself on humankind. Sitting at a window table on the waterfront, I saw why Hitchcock chose Bodega Bay. The sea below our table was oil smooth, the harbor a sheltered lagoon, blocked off from the ocean by the long, hilly, granite bulk of Bodega Head. The director needed a tranquil and secluded village (those farmers, fishermen and sweetly singing schoolchildren) on which he could let loose his flights of murderous birds; a place so seemingly safe and snug that it cried out to be violently disturbed.
We were sitting right astride the San Andreas fault; the 1906 San Francisco earthquake rifted apart Bodega Harbor's shoreline, and everything on the fault's western side traveled several feet northward. Nature isn't to be trusted here, and when Hitchcock's birds turned nasty, they were just conforming to the fearsome seismic spirit of this coast and shaking settled lives to their foundations, as they deserved.
Closely adhering to the San Andreas fault line, with the sky clearing and the top down, we corkscrewed our way toward the Golden Gate Bridge. For a few moments, San Francisco, a few miles across the water, jumped out at us from behind the shoulder of a sandstone bluff, then was lost for 20 minutes but returned to view just as we reached the threshold of the bridge. Driving through the city's west side, I was aware of Julia hungrily taking it in: the near-universal urban vernacular of narrow row houses with stoops and bay windows, along with San Francisco's particular addiction to its medley of revival styles -- Spanish, Italianate, Moorish -- sitting haunch to haunch with American Art Deco and New Brutalist, with everything done up in faded pastel shades of green, pink and beige. Julia, gazing out at storefronts and street life, remarked that we were ''really'' just 90 minutes from Seattle.
Quickly -- too quickly -- the city thinned into seaside suburbia, with Pacific beaches at the ends of streets, then farmland littered with isolated housing developments, as we ran along the western flank of the Santa Cruz Mountains and turned left, 30 miles or so south of San Francisco, to climb into the hills.
On this moist side of the mountains, the forest had grown back as a thick pelt of green, with trees, close-packed and lush, overshadowing the narrow, twisting road: fir, pine, redwood, madrona, sycamore, maple and other species that I couldn't name. It felt more gardened than wild, more arboretum than forest; nature conserved by reams of legislative small print. The road crested a ridge, and the trees cleared to disclose a wide-open view of Silicon Valley, 2,500 feet below; the country of young money, whose tycoons are much nearer to Julia's age than to mine. Somewhere down in that low-rise, greeny gray slurry of built-over land, was the college.
Twenty minutes later, we were there. ''You can afford to like it now,'' I said. ''You're entitled.''
We sat out on the brick terrace of a bar-cafe near the center of the campus, looking out on our surroundings in quite different terms. Sipping a glass of rather bad red wine, I saw the place in long shot through a fisheye lens -- broad, close-shaven lawns; palm trees; fountains; flame-colored roof tiles; pale pink stucco and buff stone; Spanish arches under the slanting sun. Julia -- 7-Up untouched, wordless, unconsciously smiling -- was raptly intent on the immediate foreground, the swarm of students on foot and on bikes, shouldering backpacks or with bookbags slung over their handlebars. I watched her watching them as if she could intuit her next four years from the flow of faces, T-shirts, shorts, dresses, sandals, as it swept past the terrace. I mentally planted her aboard a bicycle; she merged seamlessly into the crowd.
I'd booked a room at the place we stayed in October; a vintage motor-court motel on El Camino Real, Silicon Valley's interminable Main Street. On a trip otherwise devoted to change and upheaval, it was good to be on familiar ground. Checking in, I greeted the manager as an old friend and took reminiscent pleasure even in the scent of cleaning fluid in our room, identical to the one we occupied five months before. We played at being creatures of habit: after supper at a restaurant we ate in twice the last time around, Julia stopped by the video store, and came back with a DVD of ''The Birds.'' Sprawled on twin king-size beds, we watched the movie. She found it scary and cheesy by turns; I just saw the malignant birds, lined up along the rooftops, waiting to visit my house.
At noon the next day, I dropped her off at the college quad and watched her walk away to meet her freshman host. Suddenly without purpose or direction, I drove along El Camino Real, where a single tall palm tree or telephone pole could still dominate the view. I lunched. I visited a bookstore. My daughter's absence was a hollow hard to fill. Hours passed. I saw that the new adaptation of ''Jane Eyre'' was playing at a cinema just across from the motel, and for the first time in years I went to a movie in the afternoon. A life of desolation on the rainswept Yorkshire moors was a fine distraction, but it ended too soon, and I came out of the theater dazed by California sunshine and the prospect of more hours to fill. I ate at an Italian restaurant, thinking of Julia, then watched ''The Birds'' again.
Late the following morning, I picked her up from beside the quad. Her grin was uncontrollable as she got into the car, and her voice, usually measured, was a barely punctuated garble of names and details. Had I read Andrey Platonov's ''Foundation Pit'' (she'd been to a class on it)? She met this kid who. . . . It was pledge night for boys trying to get into fraternities. . . . There was a picnic. . . . Everybody's door was open. . . . They stayed up until after midnight, talking and singing. . . . She played a borrowed ukulele. . . . There was a boy who'd been a year ahead of her at elementary school in Seattle. . . . Everybody said. . . .
She'd picked up the slang and was talking ProFros and RoHos.
''I haven't seen you like this since you were 7,'' I said.
''I'm so excited, it'll make the rest of high school unbearable if I get to thinking too much about it.''
She calmed down over lunch. Her great worry, she said, had been that she would never again have friends as close as those she made at high school; that college students would keep themselves to themselves and be hard to get to know. Overnight all her fears had been gloriously dispelled. Her two-house life in Seattle had, she said, helped ready her to go away. ''At least I know I can survive without one parent at a time.''
Our drive down was a rehearsal for the real thing. Very soon now, the chaotic heap of stuff in her room at my house will be gathering dust, and the smell of burned incense sticks, relics of the 11th-grade school trip to Cambodia, will fade out of the air. Her absence will swell to fill the house. I can feel the soft, unstable ground trembling under my feet and am bracing myself for the full shock of the quake.
I was grateful when someone I know, close to my own age, who lives on the West Coast, told me of how, when his own youngest daughter recently went off to begin her freshman year in New York City, ''it broke my heart, of course.'' Heartbreak comes in different sizes, and the departure of an 18-year-old child for a far college has to be treated as a very benign form of the disease. Or so I tell myself as I count down.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Father and daughter take a break off Highway 101 in Sausalito before reaching the Golden Gate Bridge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DRU DONOVAN) (MM51)
From left, near Willapa Bay, Wash.
crossing the Astoria-Megler Bridge over the Columbia River
after dinner in Yachats, Ore.
near Jenner, Calif.
the motel in Laytonville, Calif.
 the last day of the trip, in Naselle, Wash. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIA RABAN) (MM52-MM53) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



428 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Rachel Hare, Joshua Bork

 BODY:
Rachel Julia Hare, a daughter of Isadora and Philip Hare of Rockville, Md., is to be married Sunday to Joshua Alan Bork, a son of Gail and Paul Bork of Sharon, Mass. Rabbi Jacob Blumenthal is to officiate at the Woodend Nature Sanctuary, a property of the Audubon Naturalist Society, in Chevy Chase, Md. 
The bride, 29, will keep her name. She is a research associate at the Community College Research Center of the Teachers College at Columbia University, and is a teaching assistant at the Columbia School of International and Public Affairs. She is a doctoral candidate in politics and education at Teachers College and received a master's in comparative politics from the London School of Economics. She graduated from Johns Hopkins.
Her father, a lawyer, retired from private practice in Washington. The bride's mother is the health specialist for the Maternal and Child Health Bureau of the Health Resources and Services Administration, part of the federal Department of Health and Human Services in Rockville.
The bridegroom, 30, is a science teacher at the Winston Preparatory School in New York, a middle and high school for students with learning disabilities. He graduated from New York University.
His mother is a fund-raiser for the South Shore Hospital Charitable Foundation in South Weymouth, Mass. The bridegroom's father is a partner at the Boston law firm Foley Hoag.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TEACHER EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (75%); PARAEDUCATORS (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (70%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); CHARITIES (65%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (51%)

COMPANY: BOSTON LAW FIRM LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH BUREAU (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES (56%); HEALTH RESOURCES & SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: PHIL HARE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



429 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: The Worry Meter May Overlook Some Warning Signs

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHILE market risks appear to be climbing -- stocks have lost ground for six consecutive weeks as the economy seems to have hit another soft patch -- most traditional gauges of volatility show no noticeable jump in market anxiety.
So can investors calm down? 
Unfortunately, the answer is no. The problem with traditional volatility gauges is that they've never been great predictors of future market activity. For example, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, which measures fear based on Standard & Poor's 500 options contracts that are used to hedge volatility, was near its historical average and showed no worrisome rise in jitters on Oct. 9, 2007, at the start of the last bear market.
In fact, it wasn't until November of that year, when stocks had already lost 10 percent of their value, that the VIX started flashing a warning sign, climbing to a reading of 30 -- about twice the average.
''We know that huge shocks in the market can trigger large movements in the VIX,'' said Jason Hsu, chief investment officer at Research Affiliates, an investment consulting firm in Newport Beach, Calif. ''But it's not clear that nervousness in the stock market can be picked up in the VIX before big movements in the market are felt.''
The same goes for another gauge of market skittishness -- one that tracks fear by tallying the number of trading days when stock prices swing -- up or down -- by 1 percent or more.
By this standard, market fear is virtually nonexistent today, as the S.& P. 500-stock index is on track this year to post 25 days of such 1 percent moves, according to InvesTech Market Research. That's down from 76 days last year, 117 in 2009, and 134 in 2008.
But investors shouldn't necessarily assume that smooth sailing is ahead.
Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist for S.& P. Equity Research, studied days when the market had lost at least 1 percent of its value, going back to 1956. He found that in the final three months of bull markets, the S.& P. 500 has only 5.7 such down days, on average. Yet in the three months after a new bear market begins, that number nearly doubles, to 11.
''A pickup in volatility seems to be more of a coincident indicator than a leading one,'' Mr. Stovall said. Or, as I'd put it, volatility isn't a problem until it becomes a problem. Still, this doesn't mean that classic gauges of market jitters are worthless in analyzing risk. In fact, volatility gauges can be useful to bulls and bears alike.
Market optimists, for example, can take comfort in knowing that volatility readings tend to jump at big transitional moments in the market when there's a great debate as to the general direction of stocks and the economy.
That may be why the biggest rise in volatility tends to take place in the first year of a new bull or bear market, when it's hard for market participants to tell that a shift has even taken place. In the first year of a new bull market, for example, the market averages 29 days when losses exceed 1 percent, according to S.& P. But in second years, that figure falls to 16. And in the third year of a rally, it drops to 11.
Mr. Hsu argues that there are plenty of reasons for investors to be worried these days -- among them, slowing corporate earnings growth and continuing, tough fiscal challenges among governments worldwide. But the lack of a meaningful rise in volatility would seem to indicate that investors for the most part agree that we're in store for a slowdown, and not another recession and bear market.
''This is more of a sign of lowered expectations, not a double dip,'' he said.
Nevertheless, bearish investors would do well to keep tabs on volatility, market strategists say.
That's because volatility can be a contrarian indicator. Indeed, ''some of the most dangerous periods for the market have come when volatility was at its lowest,'' said James B. Stack, editor of the InvesTech Market Analyst newsletter. ''That's when you have the most widespread sense of complacency in the market.''
A perfect example of this was in 2007, when the financial crisis was just starting and the VIX hovered between 16 and 18, about where it is today.
TIMOTHY W. HAYES, chief investment strategist at Ned Davis Research, said that the ''time to be concerned is when volatility readings really start to pick up at the same time you see the market breaking down.''
So far, investors have witnessed half of that combination, as stocks have lost around 7 percent of their value since late April.
If selling should continue as volatility starts to climb, investors may really need to worry.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: An Indicator, or a Laggard?: Volatility indexes often rise sharply only after stock markets turn bullish or bearish. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (87%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (72%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



430 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: The Power of the Pets

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re '' 'For the Dogs' Has a Whole New Meaning'' (June 5), which noted that the $55 billion pet industry appears so healthy in a lackluster economy: 
The article should have looked less at products like candles to help dispel pets' flatulence and more at the consumer-driven demand for better pet foods. The recall of melamine-tainted food in 2007 made pet owners really study the ingredients of mass-produced pet foods they had been feeding their animals -- and that is why you see more all-natural and holistic choices today.
Just as it's not recommended that humans eat fast food three times a day, we should not propose that a dog or cat eat the same grain-based diet daily. Just as a healthy person meets his nutritional needs with a varied diet of fresh food, so does a dog or cat.
Pet industry consumers are pet lovers who rejoice in the glossy coats, bright eyes and vitality of their properly fed companion animals.
Kelly Schlesinger
Houston, June 7
The writer is a sales representative at Natural Pawz, which operates health food stores for pets.
To the Editor:
I applaud people who take excellent care of their animal companions even during difficult economic times, but not all dogs and cats are lucky enough to have gourmet treats and organic food. Some have lost everything, including their homes and the families they love.
Animal shelters across the country are overflowing with animals that have been surrendered by people who have lost their homes or jobs. Other animals have been left behind in empty homes to starve or have been tossed out on the streets like trash.
I encourage caring people to consider donating to an animal food pantry, animal shelter, or low-cost spay/neuter clinic, to help dogs and cats that aren't as fortunate as their own.
Lindsay Pollard-Post
Holland, Mich., June 7
The writer, who has been a volunteer at a local animal shelter, works for the PETA Foundation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETS (92%); DOGS (90%); ANIMAL FOODS (90%); PET FOODS (90%); CATS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); ANIMAL WELFARE (89%); WRITERS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); ORGANIC FOODS (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (76%); FAST FOOD (76%); VETERINARY SERVICES (73%); FOOD RECALLS (71%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (70%); NUTRITION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



431 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: The Uncertainty Tax

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
If you want to understand why the unemployment rate has been stubbornly lodged around 9 percent, a good place to start is with the eye-popping mortgage statistics released last week by the economic analysis firm CoreLogic: 38 percent of homeowners with second mortgages are underwater. They borrowed against the value of their homes, and they now owe more than their houses are worth. The total number of underwater homeowners in America, with first and second mortgages, is a stunning 22.7 percent. In Nevada alone, 63 percent of all mortgaged properties are worth less than the owners paid; in Arizona 50 percent, Florida 46 percent, Michigan 36 percent and California 31 percent.
When people are so underwater, they find it hard to move to take new jobs, they find it hard to borrow or raise cash for education or start-ups, and banks become even more cautious about lending. Until we as a country figure out how to divvy up these losses on housing and let these markets clear and move on, they will be a serious drag on employment. 
Indeed, this mortgage mess just feeds the three other big problems undermining U.S. job growth today: weak aggregate demand, structural impediments and an epidemic of uncertainty about what the future holds for everything from health care to the rate of taxation to Social Security and Medicare spending to the availability of credit to the general direction of the economy -- the sum of which has people holding back and thus undermining the government's stimulus.
We need to be working on all three at once, and urgently. How? Others have focused on the aggregate demand problem, so I'd like to address some of the structural impediments and uncertainty.
On Friday, the McKinsey Global Institute released a long study of the structural issues ailing the U.S. job market, entitled: ''An Economy That Works: Job Creation and America's Future.'' It begins: ''Only in the most optimistic scenario will the United States return to full employment before 2020. Achieving this outcome will require sustained demand growth, rising U.S. competitiveness in the global economy and better matching of U.S. workers to jobs.''
Over the last 20 years, McKinsey notes, with each recession more employers have used the downturn to replace workers with machines and software, so it takes much longer for full employment to come back. I've been working on a book that required talking to a lot of entrepreneurs and have been struck by how many told me some version of: ''I used the recession to downsize and get really efficient. None of those jobs are coming back. I am doing a little hiring now, but for people with more skills.''
At the same time, you talk to U.S. companies doing advanced manufacturing and many will tell you they struggle even now to find workers with the blue-collar skills they need to replace their retiring employees. Thanks to a credit bubble over the last decade, we created a lot of jobs for people -- in construction and retail -- who did not have globally competitive skills or post-high school degrees. Those workers will need retooling.
McKinsey says its research found that ''too few Americans who attend college and vocational schools choose fields of study that will give them specific skills that employers are seeking. Our interviews point to potential shortages in many occupations, such as nutritionists, welders, and nurse's aides -- in addition to the often-predicted shortfall in computer specialists and engineers.''
The report concludes, ''Progress on four dimensions is needed: Ensuring that the work force acquires skills needed for the jobs that will be in demand, finding ways for U.S. workers to win 'share' in the global economy'' -- by encouraging more foreign investment in the U.S. and by getting companies who have off-shored jobs to take advantage of falling telecom prices to on-shore them to low-cost American cities and towns instead -- ''encouraging innovation, new company creation, and scaling up of industries in the United States, and removing unnecessary impediments that slow business investment and job creation.''
Today, everything from patent delays to overlapping or conflicting land use regulations inhibit start-ups and factory creation. According to the World Economic Forum, America now ranks 27th on the ease of getting a construction permit, behind Saudi Arabia.
But do not underestimate uncertainty as a silent jobs killer. Congress and the White House seem paralyzed in deciding the future of taxes and spending. Where are we going in these areas? Investors and companies who have to make hiring decisions have no clue. ''The economy is paying a high uncertainty premium right now,'' says Mohamed El-Erian, the C.E.O. of the world's largest bond fund, Pimco. ''With such uncertainty, people delay as many decisions as possible.''
Any good news? Yes, U.S. corporations are getting so productive and sitting on so much cash, just a few big, smart, bipartisan decisions by Congress on taxes and spending (and mortgages) and I think this whole economy starts to improve again. Workers with skills will be the first to be hired.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); SECOND MORTGAGES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); MEDICARE (65%)

COMPANY: CORELOGIC INC (58%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



432 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: The Way America Eats

 BODY:
Last week, under the headline ''Invitation to a Dialogue: The Way America Eats,'' we continued a new feature in which we invite readers to respond to an interesting letter, in hopes of spurring a dialogue. Here is the original letter, followed by a sampling of reader responses, and a reply from the first writer.
THE ORIGINAL LETTER 
To the Editor:
Re ''Hooked on Meat,'' by Mark Bittman (column, June 2):
The other day, I asked the manager of our local chain grocery store why we were offered only Peruvian asparagus in the springtime. Remember when fresh, locally grown asparagus would come in? No longer. Why eat produce that has no flavor? Why not go next door and grab a salty, fatty burger in a bag? It's so much easier.
Why do we eat so much meat? Mr. Bittman has some strong answers: evolutionary psychology, convenience and propaganda posing as marketing. Might we add all the misinformed diets promoting proteins while vilifying grains and carbohydrates?
Why does the whole world want to eat like us?
Doesn't it know that our American diet is killing us and our economy? Health care skyrockets out of control mainly because we have no convenient access to fresh produce and tasty, humanely raised meat products.
Americans want to eat the good stuff, but it must be readily available. We're busy and misinformed.
JANE McCLAREN Southern Pines, N.C., June 6, 2011
The writer is the author of ''Honest Eating.''
READER RESPONSES
To the Editor:
Jane McClaren is indeed fortunate to be able to eat a diet high in carbohydrates, presumably without weight gain, since her grocery bill will be considerably less than that of those of us who must restrict carbs.
It is not so much low carb versus low fat as that humans' dietary needs vary from person to person and sometimes change with age. When it comes to nutrition, we cannot declare a ''winner,'' but most of us can agree with Ms. McClaren that fresh is better.
PHYLLIS O'REILLY Pompton Plains, N.J., June 8, 2011
To the Editor:
The most basic, simple fact of the human diet is that people need protein and fat to maintain and restore their bodies, and absolutely do not need to consume carbohydrates for their health.
Protein and fat, beyond their essential building-block roles, are also most capable of providing all the energy a person would ever need.
Jane McClaren writes, ''Why do we eat so much meat? ... Might we add all the misinformed diets promoting proteins while vilifying grains and carbohydrates?''
This statement is sadly typical. Carbohydrates are a convenient and enjoyable form of energy, but no person, especially if he or she is overweight, needs any.
Regarding protein, the expression ''high protein'' is a frequent connotation of an unhealthy diet. The proper expression is low or restricted carbohydrates. Additionally, while proteins are broken down, fats are incorporated directly into the production of cell walls. You are what you eat; choose healthy fats for healthy cells.
WARREN BURHOLT Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., June 8, 2011
To the Editor:
Perhaps I'm naive -- if people are really eating 15-ounce steaks, I suppose that's too much meat -- but I don't believe that the problem is the quantity of the meat so much as the quality.
Individual and planetary health both suffer to the extent that mass-produced meat is eaten. Meat harvested from containment animal feeding operations, where confined animals stew in E. coli-infested sewage -- well, need I say more?
Containment animal feeding operations produce noxious methane clouds as well as meat of low quality, taken from cows eaten as cows were never meant to be eaten.
Meat taken from pasture-raised animals killed in the field -- never shipped, trucked, contained and poisoned with grain or leftover M & M's -- yields omega-3-rich meat, richer soil producing greener grass, and a recycling of a significant amount of the methane produced by the animals.
Eat local, eat from small farmers, and whether it's meat, milk, eggs or vegetables, you'll be doing better for yourself and the planet than by eating Peruvian asparagus!
DEBORAH GORDON Ashland, Ore., June 8, 2011
The writer is a doctor specializing in complementary family medicine.
A REPLY FROM JANE McCLAREN
To the Editor:
To enjoy the gifts of our planet, let's not go to extremes by avoiding an entire food group and ingesting too much of another. Don't most of us want healthy nourishment and satisfaction? Our bodies seek balance. Contrary to Phyllis O'Reilly and Warren Burholt, we need protein, fats and carbohydrates to fulfill this balance.
Proteins and fats are found in animal products as well as in plant foods. Carbohydrates include fruits, vegetables, whole grains and legumes. Who would want to deny himself this long list of luscious foods? We've forgotten how to celebrate and gain pleasure from food.
As for the weight-control issue raised by Ms. O'Reilly and Mr. Burholt, I believe that variety is key, and denying ourselves certain foods like carbohydrates only leads to cravings that can end in disaster.
There are other reasons to eat healthy carbohydrates. First, the antioxidants found in colorful foods are essential to a healthy immune system, the key to health and longevity.
Second, our digestive system constantly chugs away, gleaning nutrients from our food choices and eliminating waste. Let's ease this process and keep our digestive track healthy, unclogged and clean by eating high-fiber, easy-to-digest foods all found in carbohydrates. Adhering to good food-combining practices will also aid digestion and help build a strong metabolism. I know because I've done this; food combining works.
America, let's get back to enjoying food. Let the profit-over-health food industry know that we want flavor. Tell your local grocery-store chain that you want access to quality. Most important, support your local farmers.
Choosing to eat life-force foods, foods that are organic and lightly processed -- meaning as local as can be, as Dr. Deborah Gordon suggests -- gives us health, energy, variety, satiation and satisfaction. Now that's a winner!
JANE McCLAREN Southern Pines, N.C., June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NUTRITION (89%); WRITERS (89%); DIETING (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); OILS & FATS (73%); MEATS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



433 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; LIFESTYLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Suburban Hip Is Where It's At

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
No one knows how things will end in the busted love affair between Manhattan and the wandering bankers of UBS. Fifteen years ago, the Swiss bank jilted Manhattan for the fresh face and roomy digs of Stamford, Conn. Now, it appears some aspiring masters of the universe are balking at working outside New York City and UBS is pondering coming back home, like the ending of a weepy Meg Ryan romance.
The tale doesn't even need an ending to appeal to Manhattan's imperial pride, hence its appeal as news before it's really news. For the more geekily inclined, it plays into a parallel narrative of urban renaissance and suburban decline that has appealed to hopeful urbanists for as long as there have been suburbs to look down on. 
Still, for all the buzzy talk of knowledge industry synergy and urban appeal, census figures show that UBS's return would be bucking the demographic trends rather than reflecting them and that the suburbs, however unloved by tastemakers and academics, remain where the growth is.
Joel Kotkin , a writer who specializes in demographic issues, says that the 2010 census figures show that during the past decade just 8.6 percent of the population growth in metropolitan areas with more than a million people took place in city cores. The rest took place in the suburbs, which are home to more than 6 in 10 Americans.
The 8.6 percent is even lower than in the 1990s when the figure was 15.1 percent. New York City did better than the national average, getting 29 percent of the growth in the metropolitan area, but that was down from 46 percent in the 1990s. Of the 51 metropolitan areas with more than 1 million residents, only three -- Boston, Providence, and Oklahoma City -- saw their core cities grow faster than their suburbs. And the growth is hardly the mono-dimensional suburbia of hoary stereotype.
In 1970 nearly 95 percent of suburbanites were white, Mr. Kotkin writes. Now minorities constitute over 27 percent of the nation's suburbanites.
What happens next is less clear. A presentation this year at the convention of the National Association of Home Builders suggested that the nation's 80 million millennials wanted an urban living environment rather than McMansions and Miracle-Gro. But, as Melina Duggal , a principal with the real estate adviser RCLCO said in her talk, what unmarried college grads want at 22 might not match their response 15 years later. And, she added, there are plenty of suburban areas (like Stamford) that now offer a walkable, dense environment that can provide an urban experience without a big-city zip code. Beyond that, according to a report last year by Morley Winograd and Michael D. Hais, co-authors of the book ''Millennial Makeover: MySpace, YouTube, and the Future of American Politics,'' 43 percent of millennials describe suburbs as their ''ideal place to live,'' compared with just 31 percent of older generations. It found that 54 percent of millennials live in suburban America, and most of those who do say they want to raise their own families in similar settings.
Green building trends, high gas prices, changing cultural preferences and the housing bust may help encourage urban growth and more city-like options in suburban settings. But, experts say, pampered young bankers are the ultimate economic outliers. For most others, that cool, urban lifestyle remains more an aspiration or a transition than a likely long-term destination. Herbert Gans, the Columbia University sociologist, now retired, who has studied the urban/suburban divide for decades, said people live where they can afford to, and that's still the suburbs. So even the young bankers ten years and a few children down the road are likely to end up there -- perhaps joining their friends still living at home with mom and dad in today's nightmare job market.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (88%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CENSUS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); TRENDS (74%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); WRITERS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (91%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (91%); UBS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



434 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 35A

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Pay Dispute Splits Bay's Shippers And Bar Pilots

BYLINE: By JOHN UPTON. 
jupton@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
The nearly 60 bar pilots who navigate commercial ships through San Francisco Bay might be earning an average of $530,000 a year each by 2015.
Shippers warn that the amount is excessive and could drive commerce and shipping traffic to other regions. 
The bitter dispute over bar piloting rates has pitted international shipping companies against the crack seamen who navigate their vessels in and out of the Bay Area's often treacherous ports.
Each side accuses the other of greed as they squabble over spoils of the multitrillion-dollar international shipping industry. The spat could reach the California Legislature next week.
The bar pilots, who are independent contractors, take over commercial ship masters' duties and charge flat fees to shipping companies to navigate large vessels between the Golden Gate and San Francisco Bay's ports, docks and refineries.
Rates are based on a variety of factors, like where the bar pilot boards and debarks. With their pooled fuel and commercial rent costs rising while shipping traffic remains sluggish after the economic downturn, the pilots argue that they are due for a raise.
Their average earnings fell 20 percent over four years, to $393,000 last year. They are pushing to increase rates by 12 percent over the next four years and to add transportation, rent and fuel surcharges.
''They're looking at their own costs; they're looking at what other pilot groups around the country make and the fact that there hasn't been a rate increase in five years,'' said Charlie Goodyear, a spokesman for San Francisco Bar Pilots.
Shipping companies that spent $34.5 million last year on bar pilots working in San Francisco Bay and connected waterways want the rates frozen.
A 2009 study found that it cost more to pilot a container ship into the Port of Oakland than into Long Beach, New York or seven other locations studied.
''We're concerned with the overall viability and competitiveness of our Bay Area ports,'' said Michael Jacob, vice president of the Pacific Merchant Shipping Association, a group that represents shipping companies and marine terminal owners.
After a series of hearings, the Board of Pilot Commissioners for the Bays of San Francisco, San Pablo and Suisun, a state agency, in late May recommended rate changes that promise bar pilots a fraction of what they had sought.
Under the recommendations, which Assemblywoman Fiona Ma, Democrat of San Francisco, said she would introduce as legislation, bar pilots could increase their rates 1.5 percent annually for four years and charge some new fees.
''Foreign-owned companies would pay the increase,'' Ms. Ma said. ''Nearly all of the ships that are coming in right now are foreign owned and operated.''
But it is difficult to determine exactly what the rate changes would mean for the bar pilots.
The shipping companies calculate that the pilots will be earning $530,000 a year by 2015 if the rate change is adopted, based partly on an anticipated increase in ship traffic.
The pilots dispute the companies' assumptions and say the new formula would mean they would be taking home just $432,000 by 2015.
The bar pilots commission cannot say which figure is accurate.
''No one has a crystal ball,'' said the commission's executive director, Allen Garfinkle.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ruben Rocci, a bar pilot, descended from the tanker ship Target on Thursday after guiding it into San Francisco Bay
 Jason Morris watched. Above, a pilot ship neared the tanker Overseas Reymar on Thursday as it entered the bay. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE SHIPPING (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ARMED FORCES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: PORT OF OAKLAND (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



435 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: The Sickness Beneath the Slump

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER. 
Robert J. Shiller is professor of economics and finance at Yale and co-founder and chief economist of MacroMarkets.

 BODY:
THE origins of the current economic crisis can be traced to a particular kind of social epidemic: a speculative bubble that generated pervasive optimism and complacency. That epidemic has run its course. But we are now living with the malaise it caused.
News accounts of the economic crisis rarely put it in these terms. They tend to focus on distinct short-term developments or on the roles of prominent people like Federal Reserve governors, members of Congress or Wall Street financiers. These stories grab attention and may be supported by some of the economic statistics that the government and private institutions collect. 
But the economic situation is primarily driven by hard-to-quantify sociological factors that play out over many years.
The uptick in the unemployment rate, to 9.1 percent from 8.8 percent two months earlier and the drop in stock prices over the last month have attracted notice, yet in a sense they are symptoms of a deeper economic sickness.
Real estate prices have been a significant indicator of this ailment. An unprecedented bubble in American home prices started in 1997 and ended five years ago. Home prices rose 131 percent in that time, or 85 percent in real inflation-corrected terms, according to the S.& P./Case-Shiller National Home Price index. (I helped to develop that index, along with Karl Case of Wellesley College.)
Around the same time, there were bubbles in the nation's commercial real estate and farmland. And there were real estate bubbles in many other countries, too.
Consider this: Home prices rose nearly 10 percent a year on average in the United States from 1997 to 2006, long enough for many people to become accustomed to the pace and to view it as normal. The conventional 30-year fixed mortgage rate averaged 6.8 percent over those years, far below the appreciation rate on housing, so even if you had a substantial mortgage, you were becoming wealthier by the day, at least on paper. People who owned a home over that period had reason to feel pretty well off and proud of their investment acumen. That fed a contagion of optimism and helped to drive the speculative bubble, propelling the economy and the stock market in a feedback loop that repeated year after year.
Professor Case and I have conducted annual spring surveys of home-buyer attitudes for many years. We ask about long-term expectations: ''On average over the next 10 years how much do you expect the value of your property to change each year?''
The survey we conducted in spring 2005, near the end of the bubble, included 407 home buyers. In it, the median expectation for home price appreciation over the next decade -- until 2015 -- was 7 percent a year. That is substantially less than the 10 percent a year that Americans had recently experienced.
But expected increases of 7 percent a year still implied another doubling of home prices by 2015. And about a quarter of our respondents in 2005 anticipated increases of at least 15 percent a year for the next decade. Something was very wrong with this picture, but few noticed it.
As it turned out, of course, those expected increases didn't happen. Instead, home prices tumbled 34 percent nationally from the peak in the first quarter of 2006 to the first quarter of 2011 -- or 40 percent in real terms -- and they still appear to be falling. The brief ''recovery'' in home prices of 2009 and 2010 was most likely spurred by federal housing stimulus measures like the home buyer tax credit. After that stimulus ended, prices resumed their downward trend.
During the bubble, the sense of rising wealth and high expectations gave people a good reason to spend and a greater willingness to plunge into investment, too. Government policy makers breathed in the same optimism, which no doubt encouraged them to be lax on regulatory restraint.
The mood is far different now. Our latest survey, covering April and May of this year, included 296 home buyers, and their median expectation for annual home price appreciation over the next decade was down sharply, to just 3 percent. And, in comparison with the 2005 results, few people had extravagant expectations.
The 3 percent figure is well below prevailing rates for 30-year mortgages, now hovering between 4.5 and 5 percent. Amid such low expectations, buying a home with a mortgage certainly isn't being viewed as a way to get rich.
Even for people who have other reasons to buy a house, there may be little urgency to do so. Our 2011 survey found that the median expectation for home price appreciation next year is just 1 percent. So it won't be surprising if new home sales remain abysmally low and few jobs are created in the hard-hit construction industry. And it shouldn't be a shock if the personal savings rate stays at around 5 percent, as it has recently, up from around 1 percent in 2005. This would mean that consumer spending will not drive a strong recovery.
A half-century ago, there was a lively discussion among economists about the dynamics of price expectations. For example, Alain C. Enthoven, then of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Kenneth J. Arrow of Stanford wrote in 1956 that expectations that extrapolate past price increases can produce economic instability. But that thinking was largely cast aside in the 1960s, when my profession embraced the theory that efficient markets formed by people holding rational expectations could explain virtually all economic activity.
As a result, economists in recent decades have not developed expectations theory much further. That needs to be corrected in coming years. In the meantime, this failing helps explain why the current crisis was generally unpredicted, and why its future course is so poorly understood.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); STATISTICS (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



436 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; VIDEO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: Italian Neorealism in Softer Hues

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
ROBERTO ROSSELLINI'S reputation continues to rise -- his large body of work on film and video seems to have inspired a whole branch of academic film studies -- while the standing of Vittorio De Sica, the director most responsible with Rossellini for the worldwide propagation of neorealist filmmaking in the late 1940s, appears to be descending just as rapidly.
Once considered brothers in arms the two now seem to share little more than their historical moment. Though both (along with many collaborators and competitors) were deeply engaged in the creation of a new sense of cinematic realism in the immediate aftermath of World War II, their ways of approaching that ever-elusive goal were radically different.
Where Rossellini, in films like ''Rome, Open City'' (1945) and ''Paisan'' (1946), worked to create a sense (illusory but effective) of raw data dispassionately recorded, De Sica -- a brilliant light comedian and longtime showbiz veteran before turning to directing -- happily employs all the tricks of his trade in films like ''Shoeshine'' (1946) and ''Bicycle Thieves'' (1948): likable protagonists who invite audience identification, self-consciously poetic metaphors that pump a lyricism into everyday events, a musical score that constantly cues an emotional response. 
It's suggestive that ''Shoeshine,'' apart from a substandard edition that appeared and quickly vanished from the marketplace in 2002, has never been available on American DVD until now, with Entertainment One's release of a newly restored version. (The United States edition appears to be based on an excellent disc in the Masters of Cinema series from Britain, from which it borrows the critic Bert Cardullo's interesting commentary but not the supplementary documentaries.)
Set in Rome, soon after the American Army had driven out the Germans but before the wider war was over, ''Shoeshine'' is the story of two boys -- the cherubic, towheaded Giuseppe (Rinaldo Smordoni) and the slightly older, more experienced Pasquale (Franco Interlenghi) -- who make a living polishing the boots of American soldiers and dabbling in the black market. The boys dream of raising the money to buy a beautiful white stallion that has somehow entered their lives before the film begins (De Sica's first sacrifice of plausibility to poetry), and in their eagerness allow themselves to serve as innocent dupes in a robbery attempt set up by Giuseppe's brother (the first of De Sica's sentimental evasions; couldn't the boys have been just a little bit guilty?).
Sent to a juvenile prison, the boys are put in separate cells and fall in with a much tougher population, learning the value of keeping their mouths shut. But a guard tricks Pasquale into betraying Giuseppe's brother by staging a phony beating. (When Pasquale hears what he believes to be his best friend's screams of pain, he confesses everything he knows.) When Giuseppe learns of Pasquale's betrayal, the boys' beautiful friendship is destroyed. But this too seems like an evasion: Couldn't the guards have been just a little bit guilty? Corporal punishment could hardly have been unknown in the juvenile facilities of the time, but De Sica seems reluctant to challenge authority.
Much like ''Bicycle Thieves,'' ''Shoeshine'' comforts as it criticizes by insisting on a lack of agency: It's no one's fault, no one's responsibility, but life sure is tough. Though by no means a bad movie, ''Shoeshine'' seems toothless next to many Warner Brothers social-problem pictures of the early '30s, with little of the bite and outrage of, for example, William Wellman's similarly themed ''Wild Boys of the Road'' (1933).
De Sica gradually fell out of favor with the critics, but he maintained his populist touch. Two of his most popular films, both starring the Italian cinema's mythic couple, Sophia Loren and Marcello Mastroianni, have recently been released on Blu-ray from Kino-Lorber: ''Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow'' (1963) and ''Marriage, Italian Style'' (1964). Also in this batch is De Sica's unfortunate and pompous ''Sunflower.''
The films seem almost a parody of the neorealist ideals of the 1940s: street-level realism replaced by a Disneyland version of an eternal Italia populated by squalling babies, big-hearted prostitutes, shy seminarians, preening Lotharios and periodic cries of ''Mangia! Mangia!'' Huge international hits in their time, these films played the useful role of keeping the art-house doors open between more audacious and difficult work by Antonioni, Pasolini, Olmi and others. And for that we owe Vittorio De Sica a large vote of thanks.
The Italian cinema of the '50s and '60s continues to turn up riches unknown in America, many from outside the art-house circuit. The broad movement known as Commedia all'Italiana transposed the critical perspective of neorealism to a more commercial context, moving toward satirical stylization in films like Mario Monicelli's ''Big Deal on Madonna Street'' (1958) and Pietro Germi's ''Divorce, Italian Style'' (a piercing social satire that predated De Sica's conciliatory ''Marriage'' by three years).
Antonio Pietrangeli's ''Adua and Her Friends'' (1960), new from Raro Video, seems to straddle the two traditions, combining the moral heart of neorealism with the gimlet eye of commedia. When a law closes Rome's brothels, four enterprising sex workers, led by the redoubtable Adua (Simone Signoret, dubbed but no less imposing), decide to open a restaurant in the country, which will provide a cover for practicing their old occupation upstairs. The restaurant unexpectedly becomes a success, and the women themselves attract admirers who promise to normalize their lives.
Signoret's suitor is played by Mastroianni, in a subtle, self-deprecating performance (as a sleazy but basically decent used-car dealer) far removed from his hyperbolic work for De Sica. Pietrangeli establishes an open visual field and a relaxed pace that create a sense of new-found freedom and possibility for the four women, but just as the film seems ready to veer into a conventionally redemptive happy ending, the harsh facts of economic necessity and ingrained prejudice reassert themselves, leading to a final sequence of stunning harshness.
Pietrangeli died young -- a car accident in 1969 -- leaving behind a tragically shortened career that contains at least one other highly accomplished film, the 1965 ''Io la Conoscevo Bene'' (''I Knew Her Well''), with Stefania Sandrelli as an aspiring starlet. There are likely more revelations to come. (''Shoeshine,'' Entertainment One, $29.98, not rated; ''Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow,'' ''Marriage, Italian Style'' and ''Sunflower,'' Kino-Lorber, Blu-ray $29.95 each, box set of all three $49.95, not rated; ''Adua and Her Friends,'' Raro Video, $29.98, not rated.)
ALSO OUT THIS WEEK
BATTLE: LOS ANGELES Aaron Eckhart is the Marine staff sergeant who gallantly delays his retirement to defend Los Angeles from an army of alien invaders. Jonathan Liebesman directed; with Michelle Rodriguez, Ramon Rodriguez and Bridget Moynahan. ''The City of Los Angeles has been destroyed so many times in recent years -- perhaps as wishful thinking on the part of cynical movie-industry people, perhaps as superstitious inoculation against the real thing -- that 'Battle' feels a bit like the routine training mission its characters first think they are being called up for,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times in March.(Sony, Blu-ray/DVD combo $38.96, Blu-ray $34.95, DVD $28.95, PG-13)
HALL PASS Owen Wilson and Jason Sudeikis as middle-aged buddies whose wives (Jenna Fischer and Christina Applegate) grant them one week of freedom to pursue other women. Richard Jenkins, Amanda Bynes and Alyssa Milano co-star in this comedy from Peter and Bobby Farrelly. ''The Farrellys aren't the only contemporary filmmakers who have a tough time making marriage funny, even if it is heartening to see them try,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times in March.(Warner Home Video, Blu-ray $35.99, DVD $28.98, R)
THE MAKIOKA SISTERS The changing Japan of the 1930s as experienced by four sisters who struggle to keep their family's kimono-manufacturing business going in spite of rising militarism and the slow adoption of Western tastes. Kon Ichikawa (''The Burmese Harp'') directed this 1983 feature.(Criterion Collection, Blu-ray $29.95, DVD $19.95, not rated)
RED RIDING HOOD The fairy tale recast as a ''Twilight''-style parable of young-adult sexual longing. Amanda Seyfried dons the red cape; Max Irons and Shiloh Fernandez are the available men; Gary Oldman and Virginia Madsen are the responsible grown-ups. Directed by Catherine Hardwicke, who filmed the first ''Twilight'' movie. Ms. Seyfried has an ''otherworldly, unthreatening beauty -- she has the saucer eyes and heart-shaped face of an anime pixie -- and that elusive gift of cinematic presence,'' Ms. Dargis wrote in The Times in March.(Warner Home Video, Blu-ray $35.99, DVD $28.98, PG-13)
THE BEST OF THE DEAN MARTIN VARIETY SHOW Six discs of highlights from the long-running (1965-1974) television show hosted by the supremely casual entertainer, who disdained rehearsals and retakes. Among the guests: Bob Hope, John Wayne, Orson Welles, Don Rickles, Don Adams, George Burns, Peggy Lee, Jack Benny, Nipsey Russell, Rodney Dangerfield, Jonathan Winters, Sammy Davis Jr. and Paul Lynde. (Time-Life, $59.95, not rated)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From top, Sophia Loren in Vittorio De Sica's ''Marriage, Italian Style'' (1964)
one of the incarcerated boys in De Sica's ''Shoeshine,'' from 1946. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LORBER FILMS
 ENTERTAINMENT ONE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM SCHOOLS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); ARMIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (66%); POETRY (65%); ARMED FORCES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



437 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
FEARS OVER NUCLEAR POWER PROMPT PROTESTS IN JAPAN
Three months after a devastating tsunami set off a nuclear crisis, protesters in Tokyo rallied against the use of nuclear power. Anger over the handling of the accident at the Fukushima nuclear plant has erupted after revelations that the damage at the plant, and the release of radioactive material, was worse than previously thought. Page 6
COMEDY IN SAUDI ARABIA
Stand-up comedy in Saudi Arabia remains a somewhat clandestine affair, emerging from the raw local performers hired as warm-up acts for the mostly Arab-Americans who began touring the Middle East a few years ago. But Saudi comics are now coming into their own. Page 14 
TO CUBA, WITH GIFTS
With the easing of travel restrictions to Cuba, more Cuban-Americans are returning to visit their relatives. These visitors often bring cash and goods that the embargo has put beyond reach, which is feeding Cuba's budding private sector. Page 5
TALKS OVER DISPUTED LAND
The foreign ministers of Azerbaijan, Armenia and Russia met behind closed doors as international mediators ratcheted up the pressure for a breakthrough in the decades-long conflict over the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh. PAGE 16
National
TEXAS GOVERNOR DRAWS
CRITICISM ON PRAYER EVENT
When Gov. Rick Perry invited fellow governors to join him on Aug. 6 for ''a day of prayer and fasting on behalf of our troubled nation,'' some speculated that he was trying to raise his national visibility for a possible presidential run. His plan has drawn strong protests from advocates for the separation of church and state, who say an elected leader should not be leading what looks to be, in effect, an evangelical Christian revival. Page 25
REACHING A BUDGET DEAL
As hard as it may be for lawmakers and the White House to reach an agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling in the coming weeks, striking a budget bargain is just the beginning of the real work. Page 27
Metropolitan
THE LONG, HARD RIDE
OF DAMIAN LOPEZ ALFONSO
In July, Damian Lopez Alfonso is scheduled to race in Canada, the first event on his road to qualifying for the 2012 Paralympic Games in London. If all goes well, it will be the culmination of a nearly decade-long journey for Mr. Alfonso, a story of sudden tragedy, grim determination and a little help from a lot of perfect strangers in a bicycling community thousands of miles away. Page 1
Sports
THE YIPS, BANE OF GOLFERS,
MAY NOT BE ALL IN THE HEAD
For years, the yips were thought to have psychological or neurological roots, ideas supported by two Mayo Clinic studies. But a hypothesis has emerged pointing to a muscular source -- the result of a buildup of scar tissue in the forearms -- for the involuntary twitch that sets off the yips. Page 1
A MEANINGFUL MILESTONE
When Derek Jeter reaches 3,000 career hits, he will achieve more than a milestone. At that moment, Jeter will match the career hit total of Roberto Clemente, the Hall of Famer who collected exactly 3,000 hits before dying in a plane crash in 1972 while delivering relief supplies to earthquake victims in Nicaragua. Page 2
Obituaries
JORGE SEMPRuN, 87
He was a Spanish writer whose novelistic memoirs (or memoirish novels) drew on his experiences as a French Resistance fighter, concentration camp survivor, Communist organizer and Communist dissident. He wrote distinguished screenplays for Alain Resnais, Costa-Gavras, Joseph Losey and other directors. Page 32
Sunday Business
DEUTSCHE BANK CHIEF
CASTS A SHADOW IN EUROPE
Josef Ackermann of Deutsche Bank emerged from the panic of 2008 as the most powerful, and some would say dangerous, banker in Europe. Page 1
MAKING PASSWORDS SECURE
When creating a password, think about the number 10. If your password contains 10 characters, you should be able to sleep well at night -- perhaps for 19.24 years. Provided also that the password is encrypted and not a word in any language. />Page 3
PROFITING ON INNOVATION
Edison Nation is just one of several so-called open innovation companies that seek to encourage creativity and share in the profits when that creativity strikes pay dirt. Add to this the several innovation-seeking sites run by big corporations -- and you get a lot of places for non-pro tinkerers to turn. Page 3
Automobiles
A TINY FLEET OF TINY CARS;
PERFECT FOR SHORT TRIPS
Several new electric cars represent the emergence of a new segment: the commuter car. They're tiny and not capable of going very far but they could see a consumer niche. Page SP 10
Magazine
A JOURNEY TO THE FLIP SIDE
OF THE WORLD OF DISNEY
A parent taking his children to The Walt Disney World Resort in Florida learns that the word ''Disney,'' often works as a verb, and there is the implication of surrendering to something huge. Page 26
Travel
EXPLORING THE NORTHWEST
ONE MOUTHFUL AT A TIME
To eat in and around Seattle is not merely to eat well, writes Frank Bruni. It is to experience with great depth a profound sense of place. There, locavore living has become a true lifestyle. Page 1
Style
PARENTS FIND NEW APPROACH
TO CROSSING GENDER LINES
For generations, parents who saw their toddler boys put on tutus or play with dolls would either ignore the behavior as a phase, or reflexively repress it. But in recent years, more parents have chosen a different approach. Page 1
Book Review
WISE MUSIC IN WORDS
FROM A YOUNG GENIUS
Before he was 21, Arthur Rimbaud produced ''Illuminations,'' a masterly, innovative and influential body of poetry. Years later, his accomplishments remain dazzling and difficult to explain away. Page 1
Editorial
TROUBLING ECONOMIC SIGNS
SHOW NEED FOR MORE ACTION
The recent deluge of weak economic data has led to a guessing game among analysts. Is the weakness temporary? Or is there more bad news to come? Even if recent setbacks are temporary, the economy remains fragile and needs help, like direct federal job creation. Week in Review, Page 8
A DANGEROUS SILENCE
High unemployment numbers may be good for Republicans in the next election, which makes it disturbing that Republican leaders have blocked any discussion of stimulus policies that might succeed in putting people back to work. Meanwhile, Democrats remain dangerously silent. Week in Review, Page 8
A NEED FOR CLARITY
Making sense of the Armed Career Criminal Act's ''residual clause'' has become an almost annual rite for the Supreme Court. As a fourth attempt begins, Congress should clarify the language. Week in Review, Page 8
'THE WASTELAND' BY APP
A classic poem gets modern touches, but the voices remain those of T. S Eliot. Week in Review, Page 8
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
As we keep feeding our livestock antibiotics, we are creating a breeding ground for bacteria that can lead to untreatable ailments. Week in Review, Page 10
MAUREEN DOWD
The good husband: Newt Gingrich, who once called himself ''the defender of civilization,'' is now just the defender of of a good vacation. Week in Review, Page 9
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
Do not underestimate the threat of the paralysis in Washington: It is a silent killer of jobs. Week in Review, Page 10
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
Supporters on both sides of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict continue to criticize The Times's coverage. Week in Review, Page 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); RELIGION (89%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNORS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TSUNAMIS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); ARAB AMERICANS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CYCLING (70%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (65%); DEBT CEILING (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); CHURCH & STATE (50%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (50%); RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (91%); ARMENIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AZERBAIJAN (75%); CANADA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



438 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; MUSIC WESTCHESTER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Folk Heroes' Kin Keep Legacy but Carve Own Path

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LUTZ

 BODY:
WHEN Tao Seeger took the stage at the Tarrytown Music Hall in April at a benefit for the Hudson River Sloop Clearwater environmental organization, he quipped that he hoped his grandfather wouldn't come after him with an ax. He then began a free-form banjo performance whose electronic effects owed more to Jimi Hendrix than to the folk-singing legend Pete Seeger.
The younger Seeger was alluding to a famous incident at the 1965 Newport Folk Festival in which his grandfather reportedly balked at the Bob Dylan band's use of the electric guitar -- a radical departure for folk music -- and threatened to cut the sound system with an ax. The incident, Tao Seeger said in a recent interview, had been misreported: no ax had been present, and his grandfather had simply objected to the way electronic distortion drowned out the lyrics. But the point had been made: the next generation of folkies were going to do it their way. 
That point is likely to be reinforced at this year's Great Hudson River Revival, where, on June 18 and 19, more than 100 acts -- comprising at least 450 individual performers -- will fill seven stages at Croton Point Park in Croton-on-Hudson. The event, which has existed in some form since the 1960s and is commonly known as the Clearwater Festival, will feature a long list of folk-movement icons and their performing kin, appearing both with their own groups and in multigenerational assemblages.
Speaking from New Orleans, where he is building relationships with the Preservation Hall Jazz Band and other musicians outside the folk mainstream, Tao Seeger said his songwriting shared little technically with that of his grandfather, whose classics -- ''Turn! Turn! Turn!'' ''If I Had a Hammer'' and ''Where Have All the Flowers Gone?'' -- are lyrically more universal and musically less raucous than his grandson's songs.
''I'm just not wired like that,'' Tao Seeger said. At the festival, he will appear on June 19 on the Hudson Stage with the Tao Seeger Band: Laura Cortese on violin and vocals, Jacob Silver on bass and Robin MacMillan on drums. The band will venture into rock 'n' roll and other territory that an earlier generation of folk musicians largely avoided.
Bethany Yarrow, the daughter of another folk-singing legend, Peter Yarrow, also draws distinctions between the music she produces for her group, the Bethany and Rufus Roots Quartet, and that of her father, who wrote ''Puff, the Magic Dragon'' and helped introduce Pete Seeger songs to a mass audience as a member of Peter, Paul and Mary.
Ms. Yarrow said she and her father had performed his song ''No Easy Walk to Freedom'' at Tarrytown on his terms, but ''when we do the Roots Quartet stuff, it's not on his terms anymore.'' The quartet -- Rufus Cappadocia on cello, Yacouba Moumouni on flute and vocals, Gaston Jean-Baptiste on percussion and Ms. Yarrow on vocals and guitar -- draws on African and Caribbean traditions that predate American folk. The group will appear on June 19 on the World Dance Stage.
Whatever their styles, the different generations of folk performers can usually find common ground. Ms. Yarrow occasionally adapts material from the Peter, Paul and Mary songbook. And Tao Seeger has crafted a set of Spanish lyrics for Pete Seeger's ''Well May the World Go'' that some listeners find more potent than the original English version. He said he may sing the tune at the festival.
The points of agreement between generations will be highlighted when the clans gather after each day's performances. In addition to the Seegers and the Yarrows, these meetings will involve, among others, Arlo Guthrie, David Amram, Tom Chapin and their families -- all of whom, Tao Seeger said, will join in on some Pete Seeger favorites. Despite their differences musically, Tao Seeger said his grandfather had instilled in him a desire to use music to advance social justice.
''I'm an activist,'' he said. ''I can't help it. It's the way I was raised.''
The Clearwater Festival takes place June 18 and 19 at Croton Point Park, Croton-on-Hudson. Tickets: $60 to $150. (845) 418-3596 or clearwaterfestival.org..

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BOND: Pete Seeger performing with his grandson Tao in April. Tao Seeger will play at the Clearwater Festival on June 19. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ECONOSMITH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: HUDSON RIVER SLOOP CLEARWATER (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



439 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: Serving Pop Stars, but on a Skewer

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
ENGLEWOOD, N.J.
WHEN your strangeness is the first thing you want people to know about yourself, as Weird Al Yankovic has advertised in his stage name for more than 30 years, you should expect strange things to happen at your concerts.
When you play here at the Bergen Performing Arts Center, as Mr. Yankovic, the accordion-wielding pop-music parodist, did on a Saturday in May, you should take it in stride when a grown-up female admirer asks you afterward to sign her pink stuffed-toy poodle, then bursts into tears when you grant her request.
When you want to end with a set of ''Star Wars''-themed songs, you can expect that a battalion of local fans will join you onstage in Darth Vader and storm trooper costumes, asking for no more compensation than your handshake and a slice of pizza.
And when your computer servers crash midway through your show, just as you and your band are about to play your sendup of the treacly James Blunt love ballad ''You're Beautiful'' (which you, of course, call ''You're Pitiful''), you'd better have a cover of ''Radio Radio'' by Elvis Costello and the Attractions ready to go in its place. 
Following a concert in which he had dressed as various characters including a long-bearded rapper (for ''Amish Paradise,'' his take on the Coolio song ''Gangsta's Paradise'') and a giant peacock (for ''Perform This Way,'' his notorious parody of Lady Gaga's ''Born This Way''), Mr. Yankovic said his straight-faced cover of ''Radio Radio'' was an improvised solution to a technical glitch.
''It's my old D.J. training,'' explained Mr. Yankovic, who is about to put out his first new album in five years. ''I panic when things are dead onstage.''
But that ad hoc moment neatly illustrated how Mr. Yankovic, at 51, has carved out a career in the ephemeral field of novelty music by preparing for the unpredictable undulations of the zeitgeist. Even when things don't go quite as expected, Mr. Yankovic said, he can rely on the ''pop-culture Cuisinart'' that is his overstimulated, media-saturated brain.
''I just feed it as much input as possible,'' he added, ''and mix it all up and see what comes out.''
On June 21 Mr. Yankovic will release ''Alpocalypse'' (Volcano Entertainment/Jive Records) his 13th full-length studio album and his first since ''Straight Outta Lynwood'' in 2006. In that time he has continued to tour relentlessly, on the strength of musical pastiches and original numbers that have sold him millions of records, won him three Grammy awards and earned him a fan base of college-age ironists, middle-age parents and their children.
Though his act has not changed much over that period, rich in references to low-culture detritus and proud of its nerdiness, his bona fides remain strong, particularly among entertainers who have embraced their own geek status.
Andy Samberg, the ''Saturday Night Live'' star and member of the humorous pop group the Lonely Island, said of Mr. Yankovic: ''In the genre of comedy music, he is the end all, be all.'' Brett Ratner, the filmmaker and music-video director, said with awe that Mr. Yankovic was ''a real artist,'' adding, ''Even if he wasn't Weird Al Yankovic, he would still be a brilliant performer and musician.''
Over the last 5 years, or even the past 15, Mr. Yankovic, who lives in Los Angeles, hardly seems to have aged much. He is married and has an 8-year-old daughter, but in conversation in his austere dressing room, he came across as a gangly, giggly guy with a flowing mop of curly brown hair and a cultural appetite that is all over the menu.
''I like having gangsta rap and zydeco on the same album,'' he said. ''It works for me.''
Reflecting that eclectic sensibility, ''Alpocalypse'' is a grab bag of musical lampoons, parodying Miley Cyrus (whose ''Party in the U.S.A.'' becomes ''Party in the C.I.A.''), the White Stripes (whose blues-rock style is cribbed for a Charles Nelson Reilly tribute called ''CNR'') and T.I. (though in Mr. Yankovic's economy-minded version of that rapper's ''Whatever You Like,'' he offers his sweetheart ''dinner wherever you please/Like Burger King or Mickey D's'').
It is the album's leadoff single, ''Perform This Way,'' that has already garnered the most attention, largely because of Mr. Yankovic's public and uncharacteristically pointed response when he was first told by Lady Gaga's representatives that they would not give him permission to include it on ''Alpocalypse.''
In a post published April 20 on his personal blog, Mr. Yankovic recounted his lengthy back-and-forth with Lady Gaga's management over ''Perform This Way,'' in which he mocks that protean pop star for her outrageous couture. (Sample lyrics: ''I strap prime rib to my feet/Cover myself with raw meat/I'll bet you've never seen a skirt steak worn this way.'')
After submitting a short description of the song's conceit to team Gaga for its approval, Mr. Yankovic was told he needed to send his complete parody lyrics, which he hurriedly wrote during an Australian tour; he then cut short a family vacation to produce the song when he was told to supply a finished track.
When his efforts resulted in rejection, Mr. Yankovic was evidently, if entertainingly, peeved. ''It's not like there were any surprises in the finished song that she couldn't have foreseen by, you know, READING THE LYRICS,'' he wrote on his blog.
But with the help of Mr. Yankovic's two million Twitter followers his tale of frustration ricocheted around the Internet and throughout the news media, and by the end of that day he updated his blog to say that Lady Gaga had given the song her blessing -- and that an unnamed manager had never actually forwarded it to the singer for her approval.
Mr. Yankovic seemed somewhat chagrined by this incident one month later and said any causticity in his blog post came from fear that his work on ''Perform This Way'' would be wasted.
''My brain was going, 'Noooo, this has to happen,' '' he said, his voice raising an octave or two. '' 'It's meant to be, I don't understand. It's predestined.' ''
(A publicist for Lady Gaga declined to comment for this article, but the singer told Rolling Stone magazine in May that she appreciated ''the philosophy behind'' his version and found it ''very empowering.'')
Though he suspects his parodies would be protected under fair-use rules, Mr. Yankovic said he seeks permission for them partly out of respect for fellow musicians, partly to avoid lawsuits and partly to work out royalty arrangements. (Mr. Yankovic said the original artists retain their publishing rights on his parodies, while he splits songwriting credit with them.)
Some performers say they are flattered to have their songs parodied by Mr. Yankovic. Jason Geter, a manager who represents T.I., said he and that rapper were stunned that the same musician who in the 1980s turned Michael Jackson's ''Beat It'' into ''Eat It'' and ''Bad'' into ''Fat'' wanted to do a version of ''Whatever You Like.''
''This dude did Michael Jackson, and now he's asking to do you?'' Mr. Geter said. ''For sure, it was definitely a validation and a certification you have a real hit.''
And Mr. Yankovic has sometimes used rejection to his advantage. When Atlantic Records would not let him include ''You're Pitiful'' on ''Straight Outta Lynwood,'' he instead recorded ''White & Nerdy,'' a geek-culture parody of Chamillionaire's rap hit ''Ridin' '' that became his first-ever Top 10 single.
But in an increasingly fragmented recording industry, Mr. Yankovic said, it was too risky to put out a new album without a parody of a high-profile pop hit to help promote it. Though some of the tracks for ''Alpocalypse'' were previously released online in 2008 and 2009, and a batch of new songs was finished in November, Mr. Yankovic said, he waited several months until ''Born This Way'' strutted onto the catwalk.
''I can never tell my label, 'Oh, my album's going to be out in the fall or in the summer,' '' he said. With a rapid-fire chuckle, he added, ''The album's going to be out whenever there's a dramatic shift in the pop culture -- whenever that happens to be.''
The novelty-music genre has seen its own significant transitions: the era when performers like Allan Sherman or Ray Stevens could have their songs played on mainstream radio stations and sell millions of records, and Bob Newhart could win the Grammy Award for album of the year, is long gone.
And while Internet sites like YouTube have given aspiring parodists more power than ever to circulate their music, Dr. Demento, the novelty-music connoisseur and broadcasting alter ego of Barret Hansen, said, ''In terms of someone who's consistently making money at it, Al is pretty much it.''
That Mr. Yankovic has lasted as long as he has and continues to have a thriving career, Dr. Demento said, was the result of ''inspiration and perspiration.'' He added: ''He just works like a dog. He's the biggest workaholic in the field, with the single exception of the late Frank Zappa.''
As he prepares for the release of ''Alpocalypse,'' Mr. Yankovic was focused on more practical and less philosophical concerns: trying to keep a lid on details about his video for ''Perform This Way,'' and hoping that ''Party in the C.I.A.,'' with its references to waterboarding and targeted assassinations, won't be construed as a commentary on how Ms. Cyrus's original song became an unofficial anthem after the death of Osama bin Laden. (''It's a little eerie,'' Mr. Yankovic said of his parody. ''I hope people won't consider the song in bad taste.'')
But when he is not dressing up for his concerts as a Jedi knight or a morbidly obese gang member, Mr. Yankovic has reflected on whether, after three decades, the term novelty musician still applies to him.
''It implies here today, gone tomorrow,'' he said. ''But by definition, any time you're doing humor in music, it is novelty, because it's unexpected.''
He thought about the question for another moment, and as a grin spread across his face, he added with mock sincerity: ''I prefer alternative. I am the original alternative artist.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Weird Al Yankovic, above in Englewood, N.J., will soon release ''Alpocalypse'' (Volcano Entertainment/Jive Records), his 13th full-length studio album and his first in five years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); RAP MUSIC (76%); RECORD RELEASES (76%); NETWORK SERVERS (53%)

PERSON: LADY GAGA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



440 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN BROOKFIELD, CONN.; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: Exurb With Suburban Trimmings

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
WITH cul-de-sacs a hop, skip and short drive from major corporations, the town of Brookfield is in many ways a classic bedroom community. By that measure it has the look and feel of its Fairfield County neighbors.
But at 70 miles from Midtown Manhattan, Brookfield hugs the far edge of the county. On close inspection its 20 square miles, which roll between two large lakes, are more loosely settled than many nearby areas. In fact, it has the rural-weekend-destination ambience of Litchfield County, just across the line.
Long green ridges slice across the town, which lies far beyond the end of the line of commuter trains. Kayaks, motorboats, Jet Skis or all three are often kept close by front doors. And an expansive property that used to be a dairy farm, along Obtuse Hill Road, might have presented an irresistible development opportunity in other places but here has been conserved as a park.
The only thing that really differentiates Brookfield from the vacation getaways strung along Route 7 in Litchfield County -- Kent, for instance -- is its lack of a walkable shopping district. But town officials are aware of that; they hope to build one from scratch. 
They envision this new downtown for the Four Corners intersection, which now has a quartet of gas stations. Plans detail small stores with upper-floor apartments, on a road lined with benches and street lamps.
The idea has simmered since the 1980s, but the heat has recently been turned up. The most significant change was the completion in 2009 of a 2.3-mile bypass to divert traffic from the area, which means fewer cars crowd Four Corners every day, officials say. The bypass isn't universally loved. Gas station and restaurant owners say the diminished traffic is hurting business. And after contentious town referendums on spending, some residents say Brookfield can't afford big projects.
Yet for the first time in years, officials are hopeful that this gateway to town can be remade. ''There is frustration,'' said Katherine Daniel, the community development director, ''but I predict there will be momentum soon.'' She added that developers would be invited to submit proposals over the summer.
About 35 percent of Brookfield is open space, including parks, cemeteries and a public golf course, according to town data. Among the many beautiful views are those around Candlewood Lake, where Shari Sacks bought a place last summer. The relocation from her Upper West Side co-op was mostly to be closer to her job in Danbury, where she is a lawyer for a gas manufacturer. But it was also partly to indulge her green thumb. She lives in a gated community called Arrowhead Point, and peonies and tomatoes grow in the yard of her three-bedroom three-bath waterfront ranch, which cost $1.2 million.
The 1,400-square-foot house was previously a seasonal getaway for a Ridgefield family, in an area with a number of other part-timers, Ms. Sacks said. So, predictably, the interior was cabin-rustic. A fish was mounted on a wall, she said, and the hearth was framed in river rock.
She promptly removed both features. But she is fond of the rustic scenes she gets to watch through the front window, of people fishing from boats near her long dock. ''It's like I have a vacation home, when I get home from work.''
The transition is even more profound for Ben Jordan, a foreign exchange trader who leaves his office in Lower Manhattan every afternoon, and arrives two-plus hours later at an 1860s farmhouse where snapping turtles swim in a wetland in the backyard. Mr. Jordan's five-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath home cost $550,000 in 2005, he said. The country-in-the-suburbs vibe even stimulated his spirit for volunteerism: he did a stint with the fire department.
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
According to the most recent census, Brookfield has about 15,600 people, which works out to nearly 790 residents per square mile -- fewer than in Fairfield County over all, which has 1,410 residents a square mile. It is also less diverse than the county at large: 95 percent white, versus 79 percent. Most identify themselves as Italian, Irish or German.
Candlewood, the state's largest lake, flanks the town to the west, while Lake Lillinonah, a dammed portion of the Housatonic River, is to the east. Single-family homes near these bodies of water tend to be roomy and contemporary, with skylights and patios. But exceptions clearly exist, as in Candlewood Shores, one of many lakefront communities where modest ranches on tiny lots practically touch.
Midcentury stock is also found farther from the lakes, off Pritten Hill Road, where residents dress up their yards with wild grasses and bird feeders.
Properties dating to the town's incorporation in 1778 are mostly inland, particularly near the white-steepled church that graces Brookfield Center. Many, like a saffron-colored saltbox on Whisconier Road, are on the National Register of Historic Places.
The town also has huge newer homes, with windows of varying shapes and sizes, in mini-communities along dead-end streets with dual names, like Fieldstone Estates on Tori Lane.
Most of these homes are on one- to two-acre parcels with trees along their flanks. One example is the 1994 center-hall colonial owned by Julie Fleck, a dental receptionist, and her husband, Bill, which cost $500,000 in 2009, when Mr. Fleck was transferred to Danbury by General Motors.
But privacy doesn't mean aloofness, Mrs. Fleck said. ''It's not that people here are less friendly'' than in the Midwest, where she lived for years. ''You just don't see your neighbors as often.''
Condominiums, which are scattered through town, have recently become more numerous. Newbury Village, a 55-and-over community on the revitalized Still River, has 75 units. The Riverview at Brookfield, with 42 units and nine-foot ceilings, is now going up.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
In late May, 131 single-family homes were for sale in Brookfield, at an average of $516,200, according to data from the Greater Fairfield County Consolidated Multiple Listing Service, prepared by Patty McCarthy, a broker with William Raveis Real Estate.
They ranged from an unfinished three-bedroom Cape in Candlewood Shores that was a victim of a foreclosure, for $168,900, to a four-bedroom 1998 colonial with 5,200 square feet on Lake Lillinonah for $1.795 million. As for condos, 47 were on the market, at an average of $289,232.
Prices plunged during the recession but seem to have recovered somewhat.
In 2007, 161 single-family homes sold, at an average of $515,503, while 56 condos sold, at an average $274,941. In 2010, the number of single-family sales was 150, the average $450,324. Though that price is down 13 percent, comparable nearby markets like Bethel are off much more, brokers said.
Still, Ms. McCarthy said, 2011 has been sluggish, especially for listings around $1 million, which once drew relocating executives. General Electric, in Fairfield, ''used to send us a ton of people, but no so much anymore.''
THE SCHOOLS
Center Elementary School offers prekindergarten through first grade, and Huckleberry Hill Elementary School teaches second through fourth. On state exams last year, 87 percent of fourth graders met standards in reading, 96 percent in math and 98 percent in writing, versus 73, 85 and 87 statewide. For Grades 5 through 8 there is Whisconier Middle School, and Brookfield High School enrolls 1,000.
It offers French and Spanish, and through this year Italian, which will be phased out to meet a trimmed school budget. At $36.2 million, that budget was approved after the first vote ended in a recount. Ninety-two percent of graduates go on to college, said Anthony Bivona, the superintendent.
SAT averages last year were 534 in reading, 546 in math and 535 in writing, versus 509, 514 and 513 statewide.
WHAT TO DO
The campus of the Brookfield Craft Center, which according to town plans would be connected by paths to the new downtown, has since 1954 offered classes in jewelry-making, blacksmithing and woodcarving.
Shopping is plentiful, mostly in big-box stores on Federal Road in the southern part of town. Chains there include T. J. Maxx, Bed Bath & Beyond, and Raymour & Flanigan.
The Brookfield Theater for the Arts stages musicals in the old gym of a former 1800s prep school. And at Shakespeare's Garden, soft music provides a soundtrack for browsing the perennials.
THE COMMUTE
The closest Metro-North Railroad station is in Danbury, on a spur of the New Haven line. Four trains from 6 to 8 a.m. take 113 to 124 minutes to reach Grand Central Terminal; some require a transfer in South Norwalk. Monthly fares are $301.84 online.
Many commuters drive 20 minutes to Brewster, N.Y., on the Harlem line, where 10 trains depart from 6 to 8 a.m., and trip times range from 72 to 87 minutes. Monthly fares are $360 online.
THE HISTORY
The local historical society displays a handmade so-called copperhead flag that some Brookfield farmers flew during the Civil War to show their support for the slave-holding states. Arrayed over blue denim, it has 34 stars, one for each state in the Union in 1861.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WATER WINGS: A park on Candlewood Lake, along the western side of Brookfield, is popular with beachgoers. On the town's eastern flank is Lillinonah, a dammed portion of the Housatonic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GAS STATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAKES (76%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (75%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (74%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); CITIES (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); GOLF (70%); TRAINS (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); REFERENDUMS (62%); RELOCATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



441 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Red, White and Blah

BYLINE: By J. ROBERT LENNON. 
J. Robert Lennon is the author, most recently, of the novel ''Castle'' and the story collection ''Pieces for the Left Hand.''

 BODY:
MY AMERICAN UNHAPPINESS
By Dean Bakopoulos
277 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $24.
It's hard to think of a less privileged creation than the second novel. When we admire a writer's debut, it's like falling in love across a crowded room; we are seduced by a part that we have mistaken for the whole. And when the follow-up reveals, as it must, a more complex picture than we at first believed we saw, our feelings are mixed. And so Dean Bakopoulos's second novel, ''My American Unhappiness,'' is already at a disadvantage; if you liked his first one, you can be certain only that this one won't be the same. 
That first novel, ''Please Don't Come Back From the Moon,'' was a clever and occasionally affecting take on masculinity and working-class childhood. Like its spiritual antecedent, Jeffrey Eugenides's ''Virgin Suicides,'' it begins with an ingenious conceit: all the men in a small Michigan town, humbled by the weaknesses of the economy and of their gender, abandon their families and depart for the moon. The town's boys awkwardly fill their shoes, drinking and fighting and pursuing women. The book works well at first, giving us an elegant and lively portrait of the vicissitudes of early manhood. But in the end it strains against the limits of its conceptual framework, transforming itself into a too-conventional exploration of male angst and desire, underscored by a mawkish, if endearing, mash note to the literary world that fostered its creation.
If ''Please Don't Come Back From the Moon'' wasn't an unqualified success, it did showcase Bakopoulos's strengths: an unpretentious and versatile prose style, a keen ear for dialogue and a willingness to openly engage those workaday emotions often regarded as insufficiently complex for contemporary literature. The author approached his subject with good humor, intelligence and restraint: fine qualities in a first novel, and ones that left open the possibility of a strong follow-up that exploited them to their fullest.
So does the new novel deliver? I'm not so sure. You couldn't accuse Bakopoulos of repeating his formula, anyway. He's working here in a new, hypomanic prose style; the jokes come fast and furious, and the steady narration of the previous novel has given way to a wry, edgy self-mockery. But the author seems a bit lost, adrift in unfamiliar waters, and the book feels less like a second novel than it does another try at a first.
''My American Unhappiness'' is narrated by Zeke Pappas, a twitchy man of late youth infected by class discomfort, higher-education fatigue and liberal guilt. In his college town, Madison, Wis., Zeke is the last of his social circle, a disbanded group who once spent their time slumming in an old-man bar, ''discussing weighty books and foreign films, drinking can after can of Miller High Life in ironic appreciation for the cheap things in life.'' He lives with his mother and with twin nieces orphaned by the Iraq war and a car crash, works for a fading nonprofit agency and distracts himself with recreational empathy: his startlingly accurate guesses of what people will order at Starbucks, based on their appearance.
Zeke is hard at work on a professional project, intended to reveal the human misery behind his nation's cheerful facade: an inventory of American unhappiness. He has conducted hundreds of interviews, asking people why they're unhappy. (One respondent traces it back to fourth grade, when she realized that ''almost every day of my life I would have to get up and go somewhere I didn't really want to go.'') Meanwhile, Zeke's terminally ailing mother, a gentle right-winger who reads women's magazines and doesn't know what a barista is, worries that he's running out of time to get married.
Vexing as Mother can be, Zeke agrees with her, and so he goes on the make. A few possibilities stand out: there's the cutie at the coffee shop whom he delights with his uncanny consumer insights; the lithe, single mother of three next door; the leggy administrative specialist at his office he'd like to kiss from ''hips to toes.'' They all seem pretty hot for him, this 33-year-old bureaucrat, but he is plagued by self-doubt, and people keep telling him he looks as if he's been crying. Complicating matters are mysterious e-mails from a woman named Valerie who may be Zeke's presumed-dead wife, lost a dozen years before on a canoeing trip and never seen again.
But never mind -- Zeke gives himself a year to get hitched, a plan his mother codifies by stipulating in her will that he'll get custody of the beloved nieces only if he succeeds. So now it's an imperative: find love or lose the kids.
This narrative ploy arrives on Page 125, and not a moment too soon. As zany plot twists go, it's a good one, and adds needed urgency to a story that has so far demonstrated its protagonist's ennui by chewing, perhaps excessively, its own cud. With Mother on the wane and federal regulators closing in, Zeke sleeps with his sister-in-law, and then his barista, and then things really get out of hand.
But plot does not occupy a significant number of these pages. Instead, they are filled with idle banter between characters, or with Zeke's musings -- on Facebook, on Ben Franklin and depression, on the real lives of J. Crew models -- and the musings of his study subjects. All of these things are funny, as is the surreal turn near the end: a government conspiracy, the Tasering of a houseplant, an unlikely phone call and an even unlikelier Friend Request. But they feel like the author's jokes, applied at random to whoever or whatever is at hand, rather than the kind of organic comic flourishes that can emanate from strong character development.
At times ''My American Unhappiness'' is a winning distraction, a smart entertainment for smart guys. But its insistence on its own profundity is wearying. The book's copious pop-cultural and commercial references -- Amazon, Target, SmartWool, NPR -- feel like attempts to buttress thin material with a layer of timeliness. Its many contemporary literary name-droppings -- Cormac McCarthy, Charles Baxter, Nicholas Delbanco, Jim Harrison and one bafflingly gratuitous mention of Heidi Julavits -- seem intended to remind the author that he's in good company. And Zeke's pompous and overfamiliar declarations about the nature of American unhappiness serve only to foreground the book's essential frivolity: ''Everywhere I go, I can see it, such unhappiness, such an overwhelming need to be drugged and distracted, lest a moment of silent, melancholy self-reflection pierce our fragile hearts!''
Of course Zeke is a figure of fun -- his pontifications, along with much of this novel, are intended to be taken as ironically as Zeke's Miller High Life. I fear, however, that Bakopoulos is asking too much of his readers: that we are supposed to keep one eyebrow arched for the duration, and exit winking. There is only so much we can read this way before we are overwhelmed by the desire to drop the pretense.
In the end, I find myself charmed by this writer, or at least by some plausible iteration of him. There's enough originality and earnestness here, and in his previous book, to suggest the possibility of great future success. This isn't it, though: not quite, not yet.h

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL ZENDER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (89%); MEN (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (50%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: My American Unhappiness (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



442 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 35A

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: School Districts Look at Increase In Tax Rates

BYLINE: By MORGAN SMITH. 
msmith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Senator Steve Ogden, Republican of Bryan, is the latest lawmaker to say it: A $4 billion reduction in state financing does not have to mean teachers lose their jobs.
At the end of the legislative session, Mr. Ogden told his colleagues in the Senate that school districts could spend their reserve money. They could ''tighten their belts in other areas,'' he said. Or they could pursue what he called ''a good exercise in democracy'' and ask voters to raise local taxes.
Across the state, school districts are considering the last option. But will the same public that sent lawmakers to Austin in November with an overwhelming no-new-taxes imperative accept paying more locally to preserve programs and jobs? 
The local part of public education financing in Texas comes from property taxes: maintenance-and-operations rates set by school boards and, if applicable, a facilities bond interest rate.
In 2006, as part of an overhaul of the state's school finance system, the Legislature voted to reduce property tax rates by a third, setting the majority of districts' maintenance-and-operations rates at $1 per $100 of property value, with a cap of $1.17. Any district that wants to levy a tax rate higher than $1.04 must hold a ''tax ratification election.''
About 20 percent of districts have already reached the $1.17 limit, according to data from the Equity Center, a school finance lobbying and research organization. Most districts will probably set their budgets in August, but will begin finalizing expenses as soon as they know the exact details of the Legislature's new school finance plan.
While it is too soon to tell whether there will be a wave of property tax increases, there is little doubt that some districts will try to raise their levies.
''It's not a matter of if we are going to have a T.R.E. -- it's a matter of when,'' said Joe Smith, a former superintendent who runs texasisd.com, a clearinghouse of news and information for school officials.
Catherine Clark, an associate executive director at the Texas Association of School Boards, said her organization, which provides legal services to school boards, had received fewer inquiries about tax ratification elections this year than it had at this time last year. Districts were most likely still awaiting the final school finance plan and July property value appraisals, Ms. Clark said.
But a handful of districts have already taken the plunge.
Keller Independent School District, a district with an enrollment of about 31,000 in a suburb of Fort Worth, called an election for June 18 to raise its rates to a maximum $1.17 from $1.04. Mark Youngs, a deputy superintendent for the district, said the increase was intended ''purely to replace lost state dollars.'' The board wanted to hold the election in June, he said, so that if it failed, the district could lay off workers in time for them to find jobs elsewhere.
Districts often hold elections after Labor Day ''thinking that the good feelings of being back in school would increase the likelihood of passage,'' Mr. Youngs said. ''But then you are laying off in September and October, and districts have already staffed up.''
To push a tax increase successfully, districts usually need to demonstrate that they have explored all other options, and coping with $4 billion less in state financing will help them do that.
Residents of Canutillo I.S.D., a district of about 6,000 in El Paso County, approved a 13-cent increase on May 14, after two rebuffs in previous years.
Gustavo Reveles, a district spokesman, said news of the state budget cuts had shifted the mood of the community.
''It became apparent that the T.R.E. would be more than a luxury,'' Mr. Reveles said. ''It would be a necessity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); LOBBYING (79%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); TAX LAW (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SUBURBS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



443 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Shana Tabak, Louis-Alexandre Berg

BYLINE: By PAULA SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Shana Marie Tabak and Louis-Alexandre Berg are to be married Sunday afternoon. Rabbi Hayyim Angel is to officiate at the Fields Sculpture Park at the Omi International Art Center in Ghent, N.Y.
The bride, 32, is a visiting associate professor of law at the International Human Rights Clinic at George Washington Law School in Washington, where she teaches a seminar in international human rights law and supervises students working on human rights cases in United States courts and international tribunals. She graduated magna cum laude from Macalester College in St. Paul and received a law degree from Georgetown.
She is a daughter of Barbara Strain Tabak of Glendale, Wis., and Fred N. Tabak of Milwaukee. The bride's father is a lawyer in private practice in Milwaukee. Her mother retired as an editor from The Milwaukee Journal. 
The bridegroom, 33, who is known as Alex, is a candidate for a Ph.D. in international relations at Georgetown. He graduated magna cum laude from Brown and received a master's in public affairs from Princeton.
He is a son of Esme E. Berg and Roger E. Berg of Manhattan. The bridegroom's mother is a corporate and designer sales manager in Manhattan for Bernardaud, the French porcelain company. His father is a senior counsel in the New York office of the law firm Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman, for which he specializes in mergers and acquisitions.
Ms. Tabak and Mr. Berg met in September 2006 at 7:30 a.m. -- a time when neither of them was much inclined to make conversation.
Mr. Berg, in a suit and tie, was standing, cereal bowl in hand, in the kitchen of the Washington row house he was sharing with roommates when he looked up and saw Ms. Tabak, in jeans and a T-shirt, at the top of the stairs.
She had been waiting for Mr. Berg to finish and leave, so she wouldn't have to make small talk. But she could hold out no longer for breakfast.
''I had to be friendly with whoever was in the house; I was crashing,'' Ms. Tabak remembered. Upon meeting her, Mr. Berg said he quickly went from ''Oh, no! Now I have to make conversation'' to ''Who's this interesting, attractive woman, and why is she in my kitchen?''
Ms. Tabak said that she was starting law school and that she was friends with one of his roommates and was staying there while she searched for an apartment. Soon their conversation veered into how she had just returned from several years of human rights work in Israel and Bolivia, and how he was working on justice programs for the United States Agency for International Development.
Twenty-five minutes into their conversation, Mr. Berg found himself looking forward to seeing Ms. Tabak again.
But Ms. Tabak was off to spend time at someone else's house and returned three weeks later after an unsuccessful house search. All week, first with friends, and then just the two of them alone, they stayed up past 2 a.m. talking.
They started dating by the end of the week.
While their work has separated them and taken each to far-flung destinations, they have also managed to find ways to meet in places like Sierra Leone, where they camped on a beach, or in Jerusalem, when Ms. Tabak worked for the United Nations high commissioner for refugees.
In 2009, they were separated again, with Ms. Tabak moving to The Hague for a yearlong clerkship with the International Court of Justice, and Mr. Berg off to do research for his dissertation on post-conflict state building in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Kosovo, East Timor and Bosnia. After much of a year apart, they had a rendezvous in Otterlo, the Netherlands, where, as they rode bicycles in the sculpture park beside the Kroller-Muller Museum, they made a commitment to marry and stay together in the same place.
But one thing has not changed. ''Even to this day, we still don't speak to each other at 7:30 in the morning,'' Ms. Tabak said. PAULA SCHWARTZ

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (58%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%)

COMPANY: PILLSBURY WINTHROP SHAW PITTMAN LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



444 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 35A

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: These Big-City Mayoral Runoffs Are Civil, Too Civil

BYLINE: By JOE NICK PATOSKI. 
Joe Nick Patoski is a frequent contributor to these pages.

 BODY:
Joe Nick Patoski wrote this column for The Texas Tribune.
It would be nice if the two largest cities in Texas' largest metropolitan area were fired up about the June 18 runoffs that will determine their next mayors. But about the only thing voters in Dallas and Fort Worth have been engaged in is a collective yawn.
Actually, maybe that's not so bad. 
In Dallas's first-round elections in May, Mike Rawlings, a former Pizza Hut chief executive, finished first with 41 percent of the vote; David Kunkle, a former Dallas police chief, came in second with 32 percent. But fewer than 70,000 votes were cast, representing only about 14 percent of the city's eligible voters. Thirty miles west, Betsy Price, the Tarrant County tax assessor-collector for the past 10 years, took 43 percent and Jim Lane, the former city councilman, got 26 percent in the closest mayor's race in Fort Worth in 30 years. Yet only 33,860 of 326,623 registered voters participated.
Why the apathy? Blame both cities' weak mayor systems, in which the real power lies with their city managers. Blame the absence of a pitchfork-brandishing Tea Party candidate in either race. All four candidates have been exceptionally civil, keeping mudslinging to a minimum.
Most important, while both cities face infrastructure problems and budget challenges, the North Texas economy has led the nation in job growth over the past year, at 2.9 percent compared with 1.1 percent nationally, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Times are relatively good.
In Dallas, the prevailing narrative pits Mr. Rawlings's promise to do big things to put the Big back in Big D and run the city like a business -- a mantra that has been gospel for nearly a century there -- against Mr. Kunkle's pledge to focus on repairing city streets, fighting crime and improving quality of life in neighborhoods.
In Fort Worth, Ms. Price's fiscal conservatism is being contrasted with Mr. Lane's experience on the council and in his current position on the board of the Tarrant Regional Water District.
There are twists to each race. Mr. Rawlings, who has served as Dallas's homeless czar and as the director of the Dallas Parks Board, has spent more than $2 million on his campaign so far -- at least 10 times as much as Mr. Kunkle spent in the general election. Mr. Rawlings, despite being tagged as the candidate of North Dallas, has logged considerable time campaigning in underserved South Dallas, calling it the city's ''greatest untapped resource.''
Historically, Mr. Kunkle has stronger ties to South Dallas, where he patrolled as a Dallas beat officer 40 years ago and worked his way up to the chief's office. On his watch, Dallas's crime rate dropped 36 percent to its lowest rate since 1970. His campaign manager is former State Representative Steve Wolens, the husband of former Mayor Laura Miller, who appointed Mr. Rawlings as homeless czar.
In Fort Worth, the Seventh Street Gang, a group of business leaders, hand-picked Ms. Price, a long-distance cyclist and avid hunter, to run. Mr. Lane, who was endorsed by police and firefighter associations, is a good old boy who favors western hats and is responsible for creating the Herd, the longhorns that parade on red-brick Exchange Avenue in the Stockyards daily for the benefit of tourists. Both candidates attended Arlington Heights High School on the city's west side.
''From my perspective, the interest in the two elections is about the same -- which is not very much,'' said Tammye Nash, a senior editor at Dallas Voice. But Ms. Nash acknowledged that the comity between candidates in both races had been refreshing. ''It seems they're all moderates, and they're moving towards the middle,'' she said.
Indeed, if state politics have taken a hard-right turn, city politics are a different animal, as both runoffs demonstrate. Annise Parker of Houston is the first openly gay mayor of a major American city. Austin is, as ever, proudly liberal. Mayor Julian Castro of San Antonio is being touted as the great brown hope of the state's Democratic Party. Dallas, Harris and Travis counties all voted for President Obama in 2008, the first such hat trick in a presidential election since Lyndon B. Johnson ran in 1964.
While Dallas turned blue a few years back, Fort Worth remains staunchly Republican. But both cities maintain tolerant, welcoming and inclusive visions. If this keeps up, by next election, they'll be singing ''Kumbaya'' and joining hands across Interstate 30.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Kunkle spoke at a Dallas mayoral debate in April flanked by Mike Rawlings, left, now his runoff opponent, and Ron Natinsky. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART PALLEY FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BUDGETS (73%); COUNTIES (72%); STATISTICS (70%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); TAX ASSESSORS (54%)

COMPANY: PIZZA HUT INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (96%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



445 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: When Two-Thirds Isn't Enough

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IT'S one of the great anomalies of our ownership society: shareholders own companies, but executives can easily slap them down. The hired help, in other words, holds the cards.
The owners of Cedar Fair L.P., a leisure and entertainment company in Sandusky, Ohio, have learned this the hard way. Cedar Fair owns 11 amusement parks, including Cedar Point in Sandusky, Dorney Park in Pennsylvania and Knott's Berry Farm in California, as well as water parks and hotels. Last year, it generated almost $1 billion in revenue.
The company trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the happy symbol FUN. But its investors have not had much fun lately. From year-end 2005 through the end of 2010, Cedar Fair lagged behind the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the S.& P. 400 and the S.& P. index of movie and entertainment companies. 
Now that's a hat trick.
Given that Cedar Fair depends on people who are willing to spend money for a day out, it's perhaps no surprise that the recession hit its business hard. The company cut cash distributions to its investors to $1.23 per share unit in 2009, from $1.92 the previous year. The stock fell 8.9 percent that year.
This grim performance attracted a suitor in late 2009. Apollo Global Management, a big private equity firm, tried to take over Cedar Fair on the cheap. Apollo bid $11.50 a share that December. Cedar Fair urged investors to accept that offer, but investors, led by Q Investments, a money management company out of Texas that owns 18.1 percent of the units outstanding, voted down the buyout.
The stock has since rallied 63 percent, closing on Friday at $18.76 a share, as the company's results improved, and Q Investments has grown increasingly aggressive in pushing the board to be more responsive to stakeholders -- that is, the owners.
Indeed, Q Investments has become something of a thorn in the side of Cedar Fair's management and board. Late last year, the firm pushed for a special meeting of unit holders to vote on its proposal that the chairman of Cedar Fair's board be an independent director who has not served as an officer of the company or any of its affiliates. Cedar Fair's board urged unit holders to vote against this proposal, saying it would shrink the pool of candidates available for the position.
Nevertheless, the proposal passed, and Cedar Fair appointed a new chairman who is independent.
Q Investments mounted an even bigger fight earlier this year. It is trying to change the company's practice of barring unit holders from nominating candidates to the Cedar Fair board.
Cedar Fair is set up as a publicly traded partnership operated by a general partner. Because of this structure, unit holders do not have the right to nominate directors to the company's board. That right is reserved for the general partner.
''Giving shareholders the right to nominate directors is the most basic and fundamental right in corporate America,'' said Geoffrey Raynor, senior managing partner and founder of Q Investments. ''We cannot find one corporation in the Fortune 500 that does not allow shareholders this right.''
CEDAR FAIR'S board was unreceptive to the idea that the company's owners be allowed to nominate directors to represent them. So, last March, Q Investments put forward another proposal that would require Cedar Fair to allow unit holders to nominate directors. Unit holders voted on the proposal at a special meeting on June 2.
It passed resoundingly. Investors holding 67 percent of the Cedar Fair units outstanding voted in favor of letting shareholders nominate directors to the board, according to company filings. An even greater majority of the units that cast a vote on the proposal -- 96 percent -- supported it.
The shareholders had spoken. Did the company hear?
Not exactly. While acknowledging that a vast majority of its owners wanted to be able to nominate directors, Cedar Fair said that investors' wishes could not be granted. The partnership's regulations, Cedar Fair said, require that changes in the company's by-laws involving matters such as board elections, must receive the support of 80 percent of the units outstanding. So, even though more than two-thirds of the units outstanding had been cast in support of the change in the by-laws, the proposal failed.
Q Investments said that it had studied voting patterns among unit holders at the company and that roughly 30 percent of Cedar Fair units typically were not even cast at shareholder meetings. As a result, Q Investments said, the 80 percent threshold was virtually unachievable.
''This most recent vote was as close to unanimous as possible,'' Mr. Raynor said. ''Seventy percent of all unit holders voted, and 95 percent of those voting supported giving unit holders the right to nominate directors. Yet this board has refused to give unit holders this right.''
Stacy Frole, director of investor relations at Cedar Fair, said that the board could not abide by its owners' wishes and change the 80 percent threshold. ''These are the regulations of the general partner; we can't circumvent those,'' she said. ''Within the general partner regulations, it would require an 80 percent vote to change the 80 percent voting requirement.''
But Mr. Raynor pointed out that when the 80 percent threshold was instituted, back in 2004, on matters relating to governance issues, it was required to be passed with only two-thirds of the unit-holder vote. ''It's like a third-world dictator being elected by a simple majority and then unilaterally instituting a rule that says, 'in the future, any challenger must receive 80 percent of the vote,' '' he said.
Ms. Frole said that Cedar Fair was examining alternatives to try to assuage its big and loud investors. But it sure seems that effecting change at a company should not be that difficult for its owners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (78%); WATER PARKS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (69%); BOARD CHANGES (67%)

COMPANY: CEDAR FAIR LP (94%); KNOTT'S BERRY FARM FOODS INC (72%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (54%)

TICKER: FUN (NYSE) (94%); APO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



446 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: For Life's Next Stage, Gallows Humor and Sage Advice

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
They spoke of courage in an uncertain economy, warned against technology overload and tried to redefine success for a new generation. They railed against fear, conformity, stasis and self-involvement. And they asked row upon row of young men and women to do nothing less than save the world. 
They were this season's commencement speakers -- writers, politicians, executives, actors and, at the nontraditional Hampshire College, a cafeteria cashier -- charged with sending newly minted college graduates into the world with parting words of wisdom. Each year, the speeches gauge the national mood, youthful obsessions, geopolitical flashpoints and planetary health.
The New York Times measured the frequency of key words in 40 of the hundreds of speeches delivered this spring. Perhaps as an indicator of the still-guarded condition of the national economy, the words ''world,'' ''country'' ''love'' and ''service'' showed up far more often than ''money,'' ''happiness'' and ''success.'' The author Jonathan Franzen, at Kenyon College, rhapsodized about ''love'' and ''passion,'' using the words some 40 times; Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, said ''Facebook'' more than anyone else.
In contrast to last year, a new resignation about the job market seemed to have settled in. A kind of gallows humor wended its way like a soup line through the speeches, with jokes about the parental basement as the cool new bachelor pad. ''The games look better on their big screens anyway,'' Brad Ellsworth, a former Democratic congressman from Indiana, told graduates at the University of Southern Indiana.
Speaking to the most plugged-in generation in history, the actor Tom Hanks told Yale's class of 2011 to occasionally yank the plug, saying all the gadgets ''translated into a perpetual distraction in our lives -- in the bathroom, at the dinner table, in the back seat, at a wedding, at a bris, at a graduation day.''
Similarly, Mr. Franzen spoke of the shallow pleasures of ''liking'' as defined by Facebook, urging instead the riskier, more rewarding venture of love. ''Because the fundamental fact about all of us is that we're alive for a while but will die before long,'' he said. ''And you can either run from this fact or, by way of love, you can embrace it.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Class of 2011: Word usage in 40 speeches given at graduations this year. (CHART BY JONATHAN CORUM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (51%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: TOM HANKS (56%); BRAD ELLSWORTH (56%); SHERYL SANDBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



447 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2237 words

HEADLINE: Move Over, Estee Lauder

BYLINE: By MARTHA SHERRILL

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO
LESLIE BLODGETT'S color-splashed corner office on the 23rd floor overlooks the financial district, the cement-beige Ferry Building at the rim of the Embarcadero and, in the distance, the sullen grays of San Francisco Bay. The soaring panorama befits the high priestess of Bare Escentuals, a line of chemical-free mineral powders that have revolutionized the way millions of American women -- particularly those under 40 -- think about makeup.
Ms. Blodgett, a familiar face on QVC, has been compared to Max Factor, whose invention of pancake foundation swabbed on with a wet sponge in the 1930s transformed the cosmetics industry. Wander along the vanity aisle of any drugstore and Ms. Blodgett's influence is apparent, as giants like Revlon and L'Oreal have been compelled to come out with their own mineral lines. 
In her funky brown Gucci mules, straight Gap jeans, dappled-green scarf and blue jacket from Anthropologie, Ms. Blodgett, 48, hardly exuded the regal calm of an industry leader -- or even the Zen-centeredness of her adopted Bay Area home. ''I don't veg-out or chill,'' she said, wriggling in her seat like a child. At work, she is known for crazy marketing schemes and wackiness -- she did the splits onstage at the beginning of an all-company meeting in April, and led a group dance to Rihanna's ''Only Girl (In the World)'' -- not laid-back cool.
And perfectly groomed, creamy-smooth sentences are too much to ask. ''I have trouble just talking,'' Ms. Blodgett said, with her slight, but oddly beguiling, speech impediment. ''My vocabulary isn't large. I just keep saying 'amazing' and 'awesome.' ''
An unlikely QVC star, she communicates in other ways, with her expressive face and brown giant-orb eyes, which were surely created by a makeup god for liner and shadow. Her arms are always gesturing.
But let's zero in on the hands, the way the QVC camera does when she peddles the miracle minerals. Her manicure: short nails, clear polish. Her fingers: agile. The ring: an epic diamond surrounded by sapphires and emeralds, which, as Ms. Blodgett's social media followers know (it is the other way she communicates) was an early 20th anniversary present from Keith, her stay-at-home husband, and picked out at Tiffany's in New York in October. ''Actually, we went into the store just to replace my wedding ring,'' he said in a phone interview, ''but Leslie came out with that.''
On QVC, Ms. Blodgett's appearances have the trance-inducing sensuality of a Dionysian ritual, as she applies foundation to a bare-faced woman. In the Bare Escentuals world, this is called a ''make under.'' The minerals are light, almost translucent, and it is sometimes hard to know what, if anything, they are doing.
Ms. Blodgett's fingers grasp a small jar and twist off its black lid. A special brush appears (53 varieties are shown on the company's Web site) and soft bristles are swirled in minerals, which have now vanished from sight.
Swirl. Tap. Tap-tap. The brush is tapped on the edge of the lid. A trace of mineral smoke rises.
What comes next, like all things cosmetically radical, seems strange and scary and potentially the answer to your skin-care prayers. Ms. Blodgett gently sweeps the brush across the woman's face. In Bare Escentuals terminology, this is known as ''buffing.''
Not since Estee Lauder dabbed Youth-Dew behind the ears of thousands has a lone woman so influenced the beauty industry.
Last summer, in Lady Gaga's tour bus, Ms. Blodgett rolled across the East Coast on a 10-city tour, buffing initiates and meeting thousands of fans and self-described ''BE addicts'' who tape Ms. Blodgett's infomercials and confess on social networking sites that they are facing financial ruin from compulsive brush collecting. Women come with tearful testimonials (the product was originally marketed to those with rosacea and acne scars), and they are hungry for more tips.
Nothing is obvious, or easy, when transitioning to minerals. The conversion process is just that, a process.
''You have to explain this product almost the way you have to explain a person,'' Ms. Blodgett said. ''I am not good at selling, really. I am just an explainer, an educator.'' She added: ''It even took my mother a couple years to try it. I wasn't going to force it on her.''
Ms. Blodgett's mother comes up a lot. She is like an off-camera guest presence on QVC. Ms. Blodgett's father, who died 11 years ago, was a science teacher with his own community television science show for children, and would seem to be the inspiration behind her own success on TV. But Ms. Blodgett said it was her mother, Sylvia Abualy -- a 1970s feminist and home-economics teacher on Long Island at Smithtown High School West (which Ms. Blodgett attended) -- who nagged her to success.
Ms. Abualy was a prototypical Tiger Mom, but of the Hungarian-Italian variety. ''She pushed me, she gave me drive,'' said Ms. Blodgett, waving an old letter that she had brought to read. ''I love her, and she was an amazing mother,'' adding ''But if she wasn't such a bitch, I wouldn't be what I am today.''
''Leslie was an easy middle child,'' said Ms. Abualy, sounding almost docile. Retired from teaching, she is now a photographer in Santa Barbara, Calif. ''She was always able to set goals for herself. In seventh grade, Leslie announced that in two years she was going to go to the ninth-grade dance with the best-looking boy in the class. She thought he was really cute. And darned if she didn't.''
Their mother-daughter problems came later, when Ms. Blodgett chose to study modern dance at the State University at Oswego, N.Y. (''I wasn't too happy about that,'' Ms. Abualy said) and dropped out after two years. In 1981, she was living in Plantation, Fla., and working as a waitress at a Ponderosa Steakhouse when her mother persisted that she apply to a cosmetic marketing program at Fashion Institute of Technology taught by Hazel Bishop, the inventor of a smudge-proof lipstick.
Ms. Blodgett unfolded the letter she received from her mother at that time.
Dear Leslie,
Consider what you will do if FIT doesn't work out for next fall. Do you have an alternative plan? You'd better think about it or you'll be working as a waitress all your life. How does that sound?
That's all for now.
Love,
Mom
Ms. Blodgett was already a seasoned cosmetic industry executive (and wearing pancake) when she stumbled onto the minerals in a road-to-Damascus way in 1994. Her resume was a groaning pile of brand names. She had spritzed Estee Lauder fragrances while studying at FIT, and worked the Ultima II counter at Macy's Herald Square wearing as many as eight shades of eye shadow at once. (''The 1980s were all about color,'' she said.) An internship at Revlon led to product development at Max Factor, where she worked on colorless mascara.
''I loved creative marketing,'' Ms. Blodgett said, ''product development, and I was a color expert -- on shades and skin tone and blending.''
When Procter & Gamble bought Revlon in 1991, she and Mr. Blodgett, who was producing corporate films and commercials when they married, relocated to Baltimore, where their son Trent was born. (''That's when my career really died,'' Mr. Blodgett said.) Unhappy in Maryland, Ms. Blodgett took a job with Neutrogena in Los Angeles before a friend of a friend called, offering her a chance to rescue a failing business in the Bay Area, a string of natural body care and aromatherapy boutiques with the forgettable name Bare Escentuals.
Ms. Blodgett was busy repackaging the body products when she turned her attention to the ''mineral'' makeup sold in the boutiques.
It was finely ground powder, the consistency of confectioner's sugar, dry but weirdly creamy. ''I knew it was remarkable right away,'' she said. ''But I could see it would be complicated to sell. There was a huge learning curve.''
Made with only five natural ingredients, it was far less likely to cause skin irritations or breakouts, and didn't contain the questionable chemicals commonly found in most makeup. ''Here we are,'' she said, ''spending time growing organic vegetables or going to the farmers' market, but otherwise exposing ourselves to all kinds of bad stuff.''
Ms. Blodgett fiddled with the formula, tweaked the colors and settled on four hues. (There are 40 now.) She named the makeup line bareMinerals. ''It wasn't a Cinderella story,'' she said. ''It wasn't overnight.'' An expensive New York debut in 1995 generated only one article, in W. Sales were so bad that Ms. Blodgett began shuttering boutiques.
But the hours she clocked as a desperate insomniac paid off. In the middle of the night, she watched QVC and thought, ''I could do that.'' A year after she approached the shopping channel, she went on wearing a white suit and a fake $29 five-carat diamond. The minerals were natural, but the hippie thing had limited appeal.
''I would never have tried the stuff if it weren't part of my job,'' said Lisa Robertson, a former Miss Tennessee and Loretta Young lookalike who is Ms. Blodgett's on-air partner on QVC. ''I wore full-on hard-core liquid foundation, like everybody else, my whole life. I thought: 'Minerals? What? Don't even go there.' The first time I tried it, I didn't think it was working. I wondered, Emperor's New Clothes?''
Much has been made of the success that followed. Ms. Blodgett's first appearance wiped out her supply. In her second appearance, she sold $180,000 of foundation in 10 minutes. Before long, she was selling $1.4 million an hour.
QVC notified her that she was being talked about all over their message boards. ''We knew we really had something,'' said Ms. Blodgett, who logged onto the forum and wrote to customers directly.
Women who were confused or disappointed got even more attention. ''After we'd do a show, she would stay up late, for hours on the computer,'' Ms. Robertson said. ''Before Facebook or MySpace, she was doing social media. It was pretty intense.''
Detractors may wonder what the big deal is, but they cannot deny the revolution Ms. Blodgett created, the multibillion-dollar industry, or the generation of women who, having grown up with loose powder, are not likely to switch to pancake or liquid any time soon. The copycatting has been amazing.
''Bound to happen,'' Ms. Blodgett said with a shrug. ''When everyone I knew -- my family, my brother -- started sending me links to every new mineral line, and there were hundreds, 'Hey, did you see this,' that's when it got irritating.''
Nobody but Bare Escentuals has Ms. Blodgett, who sometimes seems more popular than her products. Last year, when the company was acquired for $1.7 billion by Shiseido, one of the largest takeovers in cosmetic industry history, one of the conditions was that Ms. Blodgett continue, not just as ''chairman,'' as she calls herself, but actively involved as the face of the brand.
But as the minerals head to Asia and Brazil, as planned, and Bare Escentuals expands into skin care (made with something called Active Soil, which seems meant to trigger jokes about washing your face with dirt), how do you sell a character like Ms. Blodgett?
''Leslie can't be everywhere, and all over the world,'' said Simon Cowell, who is in charge of global marketing and communications (and not the singing judge). ''So how do we work it? We want to infuse Leslie's spirit into the brand, her sense of humor, and make the brand even more approachable.''
Recently on QVC, Ms. Blodgett appeared in white pants and a tropical-print tunic for a selling blitz of Faux Tan, her sunless tanning minerals. Lying on a white shag carpet, she and Ms. Robertson applied bronzing powder to a model's bare legs. Application, as usual, required a specialty brush so big it looked like something you would groom a horse with, or wax a car.
''No snakeskin, no streaking!'' Ms. Robertson called out from the rug. ''Never wears weird!''
Swirling, tap-tapping, and the rhythmic buffing of the model's legs continued until Ms. Blodgett and Ms. Robertson looked like participants in a soft-core brush-porn fantasy. After five minutes, more than 1,200 kits of Faux Tan had been sold.
Whether or not Ms. Lauder had a private lavatory tucked next to her wallpapered office overlooking Central Park, Ms. Blodgett has no such luxury. At the Bare Escentuals headquarters, she walks along a narrow hallway to use a three-stall bathroom she shares with the other women on the 23rd floor. ''This is where I get my socializing done,'' she said with a laugh, ''while I wait in line.''
Ms. Lauder hung photographs of royals on the walls of her reliquary: Prince Charles, the Duchess of Windsor and Princess Grace of Monaco. They kept memories of a modest childhood in Queens at bay. Ms. Blodgett's walls are covered with hundreds of letters and photos of appreciative fans, adoring customers, friends and followers -- probably to keep memories of a badgering mom at bay.
''Until I was 39, I was driven to please her,'' Ms. Blodgett said. ''And I guess I'm still trying to win her approval, in a way.'' There is more to worry about these days.
''I have an image in my head of the people who use Bare Escentuals,'' she said, when asked how it feels to have started something so huge.
''I literally know them. I know their personalities. What they look like. What they sound like. Where they live. I know them, and inside my head, they are talking to me all day long and I've got a lot of work to do to make them happy. That's how it feels.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
INFLUENTIAL: Clockwise from top, a Bare Escentuals display
Estee Lauder in 1961
Leslie Blodgett, the chief executive of Bare Escentuals. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GETTY IMAGES
 KIM WHITE/BLOOMBERG)(ST6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COSMETICS (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%); TOILETRIES MFG (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (50%)

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (92%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (91%); BARE ESCENTUALS INC (58%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (92%); OR (BIT) (92%); EL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (91%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



448 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: The Day the Music Died

BYLINE: By FREDDIE O'CONNELL. 
Freddie O'Connell is the former co-host and co-producer of Liberadio, a radio talk show in Nashville.

 BODY:
Nashville
LAST Tuesday I tuned my radio to 91.1 WRVU, Vanderbilt University's campus radio station, and heard the exact moment when college radio in Nashville died. Instead of rock, classical music was burbling out of my speakers.
It wasn't a complete surprise: as a former D.J. for the station, I knew that after months of debate, Vanderbilt Student Communications, the on-campus nonprofit organization that controlled WRVU's license, had decided to sell it to the local public radio station. 
The sale added Vanderbilt to a growing list of colleges and universities, including Rice University in Houston and the University of San Francisco, where college radio licenses are being sold off, backed by the assertion that today's well-wired students no longer tune in to the medium. But that misses the point: college radio is not only a vital part of the communities it serves, but it is even more essential in the Internet era.
There's a false but widespread image of college radio as a pointless, narcissistic exercise -- that it's nothing more than a crew of campus oddballs who like playing D.J., even though no one is listening.
WRVU demonstrated how wrong that image is. Not only did it command respect and interest on campus, but, thanks to a longstanding and farsighted policy, it allowed and encouraged members of the off-campus community to volunteer as D.J.'s -- and so drew on the rich cultural heritage of Music City U.S.A. as well.
My co-host and I shared the airwaves with Ken Berryhill, who calls himself the world's oldest D.J. and played country classics; the encyclopedic Pete Wilson, who spun a mind-bending mix of old R&B, rock 'n' roll and blues on his show ''Nashville Jumps'' (and had the sad honor of playing the last song on WRVU, Johnny Thunders's ''You Can't Put Your Arms Around a Memory''); and countless college students, balancing their awkward moments of dead air with delightfully original musical sensibilities.
The result was a cornerstone of the local community. Students learned from veterans, townies got to know Vanderbilt and Nashvillians got access to a chunk of the public commons otherwise dominated by big business: the airwaves.
According to Vanderbilt Student Communications, however, it was a commons that no one with a high-speed Internet connection wanted to use. And it's true that fewer students were tuning in than before. But our off-campus listenership was always strong: WRVU was one of the only places people could hear traditional bluegrass, world music and electronica, to name just a few genres plumbed by the station's award-winning D.J.'s over the years.
As anyone in the radio business can tell you, the Internet has not, in fact, signaled the death of radio. Ask Rush Limbaugh or Sean Hannity if they'd rather go to an online-only format. Besides, in a world where we can log on and find any song we want, it turns out that many people enjoy letting someone else curate a set list. College radio, free of the demands of profit and playability, is a particularly great source for such serendipity.
And it's about more than music. Between 2004 and 2010 I was co-host and co-producer for a public affairs show on WRVU. At a time when local news was disappearing, we provided lengthy interviews with city politicians, Congressional representatives and authors. And people listened: I long ago lost track of how many times strangers, upon recognizing my voice at a coffee shop or in line at the movies, engaged me about a recent guest or news item from our show.
Vanderbilt Student Communications has asserted that WRVU will be able to move to Internet and HD radio stations. And I'm sure some listeners will tune in. But not many: few people regularly turn to Internet radio, and even fewer listen in their cars, where FM radio is a staple. And the Internet is less well-suited to building a strong local community than a 10,000-watt tower with regional range.
As a result of the $3.3 million sale, Vanderbilt Student Communications will create a new endowment to cover its other media properties, including campus magazines and newspapers, ''in perpetuity,'' insulating them from the university's year-after-year budget process.
I'm sure this makes good financial sense, and there are many people on campus who will benefit from the exchange. But value, especially in an academic setting, can't be reduced to simple economics. As a powerful forum for ideas, college radio stations are vital parts of student and community life, and Nashville will soon join other cities in discovering that their silence is deafening.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (89%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); PUBLIC RADIO (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (67%)

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (93%); RICE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (72%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



449 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Food, Phone, Opinion. A New App Is Born.

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
WHEN the pork ribs at Ma Peche restaurant in Midtown arrive luxuriously bathed in a glaze of Thai basil and lemongrass caramel, members of the Porcine Lunch Club gasp before diving in. It is a ''wow'' moment to write home about -- in the modern, 140-character sense -- except that sticky fingers tend to smudge a mobile phone screen.
But most of these tech-savvy diners have another way of recording such ecstatic eating experiences beyond the familiar social networks: a new smartphone application called Recco that is, at its core, a recommendation service for foodies with short attention spans.
This is why its lead creator, Peter Cortez, who is also a founder of the Porcine Club, can keep his phone on the table and order more of his succulent favorites. He had previously recommended Ma Peche, an outpost of the chef David Chang's Momofuku empire, through his app. 
''When people ask you, 'Where should I go?' I say, 'Well, let me pull out my app,' '' Jenn Kim, 32, a member of the Porcine Club, said over pork rice noodles at Ma Peche. ''It's coming from someone you know and trust.''
Located at the intersection of the hottest cultural trends -- food, social networking and app design -- Recco draws on the ingredients of Twitter, Yelp,Facebook and Foursquare to create what Mr. Cortez and his team hope will be the newest killer app. Since its debut in March at South by Southwest's interactive-media conference, the free iPhone version of the app has gained more than 2,000 users. (An Android version is in development.) Mr. Cortez, a 42-year-old digital entrepreneur living in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is fixing bugs, adding features and reinventing the product daily.
''I am a kid at heart, and I love making things,'' Mr. Cortez said the other day over Sicilian red wine and pistachio crostini at D.O.C. Wine Bar in Williamsburg. (He recommends the pasta.) ''As a human being, that doesn't get old.''
Mr. Cortez, a former art director at SS&K, a marketing and communications agency, is part of a new class of aspiring tech moguls mining for gold in the app world.
''It's exciting because it's a new market, and it's expanding so quickly,'' said Jason Culbertson, 37, another of Recco's founders who lives in Williamsburg. ''Every brand wants to be part of it. I feel like we're where the Web was 10 years ago.''
New York City now is a technology boomtown, home to more than 300,000 media and tech workers, representing about $30 billion in corporate revenue, according to the New York City Economic Development Corporation. Although technology venture investments in New York have surged to $1.6 billion since 2009, Recco is not among the recipients. Mr. Cortez said he and his partners had financed it themselves, contributing less than $40,000.
Theirs is still an old-fashioned passion project. ''I don't think anyone loves food as much as Peter,'' said Joe Sayaman, 31, the third founder, and a former copywriter at SS&K. ''Jason figured it's a great way to get all the reccos without texting him all the time.''
Users of Recco follow friends to view their recommendations or can follow ''experts'' -- a select group of bar owners, celebrity chefs and video food bloggers. People post reviews or indicate that they like (''recco'') a place or dislike (''meh,'' an expression of apathy borrowed from the television show ''South Park'') it.
Mr. Cortez, who says he makes a mean fish taco, became a foodie growing up in Santa Barbara, Calif., as the son of a Jewish mother and a Mexican father. He recalls with gusto how his mother's chicken mole contained more than 30 ingredients, including chili peppers she drove to New Mexico to buy.
When his mother died in December 2009, Mr. Cortez was motivated to start his own company. ''I'm going to live life on my terms,'' he said he told himself at the time. Months later, he formed a company called Mizaplas. The name derives from the French ''mise en place,'' referring to chefs' assembling all their ingredients in one place, to establish order before chaos ensues in the kitchen.
This was not Mr. Cortez's first career change. Feeling constrained as an optometrist, he had quit to attend the Miami Ad School at age 30. He became an art director at SS&K and worked on digital media for the Obama presidential campaign in 2008..
For fun, he, along with a partner, Tristan Eaton, introduced his first app in 2010, B-BOT, which lets a user create and customize a small-screen avatar, like a digital Mr. Potato Head. Through Mizaplas, Mr. Cortez began developing sophisticated apps for Conde Nast and Nike. Of the 166 apps he has on his constantly pinging iPhone, seven are ones he has developed.
His company is also working on a city guide for New York, planning the marketing for a pop-up ramen restaurant from the Japanese chef Nakamura-san, creating an app to update a user's Facebook status and developing a game.
''Rather than create the next Angry Birds, I'm trying to create something that people will thoroughly enjoy for five minutes,'' he said matter-of-factly.
''I'm not sitting there going, 'I'm going to create the coolest thing and everyone's going to love it.' That's what younger people do. My goal is the value that I'm putting out for other people.''
Mr. Cortez moved a year ago to a sleek new Williamsburg building, away from the bustle of Bedford Avenue, having sought the quiet, and a stunning view of Manhattan, though not necessarily cheap rents. At a recent industry party in the neighborhood, someone younger asked Mr. Cortez: ''Is it O.K. living in Williamsburg since you're old?''
''I'm so old,'' he responded dryly, ''I stand out.''
At D.O.C., a bearded art director friend, Aaron Amaro, debunked the myth about Brooklyn hipsters, which argues that the entire neighborhood is made up of 22-year-olds in skinny jeans, and said Williamsburg had its ''ruling class'' of artists and entrepreneurs, ages 35 to 45, including many who settled there before it was cool.
Mr. Amaro, whose media and design agency, Doubleday and Cartwright, is based in Williamsburg, hailed Recco's pink and purple design for being minimalist and functional. He called Recco a form of ''digital homesteading.''
''You contribute to the growth of the neighborhood by writing reviews,'' Mr. Amaro said, sipping lambrusco.
The app's emphasis, with the iPhone's GPS feature highlighting nearby sites with pop-up flags, is on the local, even as Recco has users spread across several continents. Besides restaurants, it lists places for shopping, drinking and entertainment and will soon include hotels.
At the moment, it is not yet the next Yelp or Foursquare. ''Recco is so off the radar,'' Mr. Cortez said. ''But we think it has so much potential, and we're working to get it there.''
Not surprisingly, the most reviewed site is close to his home: the restaurant Five Leaves. Mr. Cortez recommends the sage scramble sandwich for brunch.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LUNCH: Recco's founders eating at the Midtown restaurant Ma Peche. (MB1)
 TABLE TALK: Top, Peter Cortez, using his phone at Ma Peche over lunch. Above, screenshots of Recco, which is, at its core, a recommendation service. Mr. Cortez says he and his partners spent under $40,000 to build the app. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PORK (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); SMARTPHONES (89%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (76%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); PASTA & NOODLES (71%); TRENDS (70%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



450 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY CRITIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: A Killer's on the Loose? Oh, It's Just an Actor

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER. 
Ariel Kaminer is on leave.

 BODY:
If you see something, you might want to pause a moment before you say something.
For instance, if what you see is a man talking to a skull and addressing it by the name Yorick, there's a 90 percent chance that it's an outdoor production of a play, not some grisly crime scene. A man in a T-shirt braying crazily about Stella? Seventy-five percent chance it's a play. A woman behaving provocatively and asking if you want to ''go around the corner''? Maybe 50-50.
What I'm getting at is, it's outdoor theater season in New York, and all the city's a stage; shows are being performed on playgrounds, in parks, on the streets. A particularly fine example drew me to Chinatown last weekend: ''The Ryan Case 1873,'' an audience-participation murder mystery staged by Carlo D'Amore and his Live IN Theater. The show is based on a real-life double homicide from back when that part of town was known as the Five Points and was full of Irish immigrants who apparently viewed law and order as optional. 
Mr. D'Amore puts his characters right on the sidewalks, sending audience members out from a starting point at the Church of the Transfiguration on Mott Street in squadrons of 10 or so to question them as suspects in the crime, which left Nicholas and Mary Ryan, brother and sister, dead. It makes for some daftly incongruous moments.
Bridget Burke (played by Alena Acker), wife of the victims' landlord, hawks coal in a loud Irish voice as Chinese merchants and their customers bustle all around her. A woman of ill repute named Sally Watkins (Dina Massery), also with a heavy Irish accent, is ready to meet unspecified needs ''around the corner,'' though our group's efforts to find out in more detail what that meant were rebuffed when she spurned our offer of two pennies. Perhaps our efforts to calculate the inflation rate since 1873 were flawed.
The real killer was never apprehended, Mr. D'Amore said, but he has tweaked the story to give it a solution, and the audience is supposed to figure out what that is. The actors have tidbits of information they are supposed to divulge if asked the right questions. But this isn't exactly hit-your-spot, say-your-lines theater. With two wild cards -- the audience participation and the uninitiated public that is buzzing around -- anything can happen, and at the performance I took in, it did.
Yosef Solanski, a rare Jewish immigrant in the Irish neighborhood that is now Chinese, is crucial to the crime, and he was played by Mr. D'Amore himself. Just as Yosef, a close friend of Mary Ryan's, was explaining to us that he often slept in yonder park, someone who really does sleep in yonder park came up and called him a liar. He had never seen him in the park, the fellow insisted, and much shouting ensued.
It took us investigators a few minutes to realize that this was not part of the performance, and a few more to realize that we had to separate the real homeless man from the fake homeless man so that Mr. D'Amore could continue his bit and not end up in a fight. So some of our group engaged the homeless man in a chat while the others walled off Yosef and continued our interrogation. And Mr. D'Amore somehow got through it without breaking character.
That is not always the case when real life intrudes on outdoor theater. Matthew Freeman, a playwright and actor, has this memory of not quite holding it together during a show: ''While wearing a yarmulke and playing Fabian in 'Twelfth Night,' I was yipped at by a tiny pet dog. I shouted, audibly, 'Jesus Christ!' Sort of shattered the illusion.''
Sometimes the merger of outdoor performance and real life is more fortuitous. Since 2006, Rohana Elias-Reyes has been directing a scaled-down, child-friendly ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' called ''Daydream'' in places like the Imagination Playground at Prospect Park in Brooklyn, with the play's ''mechanicals'' dressed in goofy construction-worker costumes.
Last year, she said, construction was being done on a new skating rink nearby. ''We had two real construction workers see our guys from a distance,'' she recalled in an e-mail. ''In true outdoor performance spirit, our Bottom (T. Scott Lilly) of course hailed them as fellow mechanicals, and they shouted hello back and started heading over. It was pretty fun to see their faces as they slowly realized that a) our guys were dressed sort of funny for construction work, b) a lot of people were sitting there watching them, and c) this was a play.''
Sweet serendipity. Less sweet: Ms. Elias-Reyes also had full-volume barkers selling their water and icy mush right in front of her actors.
Meanwhile, back at ''The Ryan Case,'' there's Patrick Walsh, who plays the victims' landlord, Patrick Burke, a particularly unsavory character. For him, the dangerous encounters have come not from the uninitiated public but from the audience (who paid up to $40 a ticket).
''Some people take the role of playing a detective way too seriously,'' he said. ''They try to strong-arm information out of me, literally. Last year I had a gentleman who put me in a headlock and was doing noogies on me.'' Another large guy knocked Mr. Walsh off the park bench he likes to stand on in his bit, caught him before he hit the ground, and swung him around in a circle.
Less harrowing, he said, was a moment during one performance when someone asked why he kept his feet up on the bench. ''Once the sun goes down, the rats come out,'' he explained, and just then an errant soccer ball from a game in the adjacent park came crashing into the bushes next to him. ''About 50 rats came skittering out from under my feet,'' he recalled. ''And I just looked up and said, 'I am their king.' ''
Ariel Kaminer is on leave.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MB1)
 WHODUNIT: The Live IN Theater company performing a murder mystery in Chinatown. Audience members interrogated actors portraying, from left, a prostitute (Dina Massery), the wife of the victims' landlord (Alena Acker) and the landlord (Patrick Walsh). The part of Yosef Solanski, a homeless man, near left, is played by the creator of Live IN Theater productions, Carlo D'Amore. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (90%); HOMICIDE (76%); MURDER (76%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



451 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AROUND THE BLOCK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Still Cute, but Now Sunny as Well

BYLINE: By NICK KURCZEWSKI

 BODY:
TESTED 2012 Fiat 500C
WHAT IS IT? An open-top version of the Mexican-made Italian minicar that went on sale in the United States this year.
HOW MUCH? $20,000 base (including $500 shipping fee); $21,750 as tested for Pop trim level with options including Bose premium audio system, 15-inch alloy wheels. The upmarket Lounge version starts at $24,000.
WHAT MAKES IT RUN? 1.4-liter MultiAir in-line 4-cylinder (101 horsepower, 98 pound-feet of peak torque) with a 5-speed manual or a 6-speed automatic transmission. Front-wheel drive. 
IS IT QUICK? The 500C is slightly slower than the 500 hardtop, which is itself no speed demon. Acceleration from 0 to 60 m.p.h. takes about 10 seconds.
IS IT THIRSTY? The E.P.A. economy rating is 30 m.p.g. in town, 38 on the highway with the manual transmission, and 27/32 with the automatic.
ALTERNATIVES? Mini Cooper convertible, $25,550; Smart Fortwo Cabrio, $18,440.
WHEN auto writers vie to be the first to drive a car finished in metallic brown, with a matching brown interior, you know the manufacturer is onto something. At its nostalgic best, that's a color combination befitting a decades-old American luxury barge, complete with opera windows, whitewall tires and pillow-soft suspension. My father's Pontiac Parisienne comes to mind.
That said, as we all know, everything sounds better in Italian. The brown car in question was the 2012 Fiat 500C, finished in an Espresso paint job with Marrone leather seats that looked as comfortable as a well-worn catcher's mitt.
The 500C is the drop-top version of the 500 hatchback, a small and exceptionally cute car that's big on style and economy, though rather short on rear legroom.
Alas, performance is not a priority, at least not until the sportier Abarth version arrives early next year. Acceleration is leisurely. Passing slower vehicles on two-lane roads requires the kind of planning you expect of Navy Seal teams.
After spending time with both the manual and automatic gearboxes, I'd counter the conventional wisdom and recommend the automatic. The shift quality was smooth and the gearbox matched the easy-going nature of the Fiat as I meandered along winding roads in the Hudson Valley north of New York City.
Of course, if you prefer better gas mileage -- and the idea of holding onto the extra grand that Fiat charges for the automatic -- the 5-speed manual is perfectly fine and user-friendly.
During my time behind the wheel, the near-constant threat of rain meant keeping one eye on the sky when the top was down. With the push of a button, the two-layer cloth top slides back from the windshield. The magic stops momentarily at what Fiat refers to as the ''spoiler'' position, where the glass rear window stays upright. Press the button again, and the entire top folds into a tidy stack behind the rear headrests. The full disappearing act can be done on the go, at speeds up to 50 m.p.h.
Rear visibility suffers when you roll back the roof, because the retracted top takes up much of the space where the rear window had been. Luggage space also shrinks, from a modest 9.5 cubic feet in the 500 hatch to a puny 5.4 in the 500C.
The roof rails stay in place too, which undoubtedly helps to maintain the car's structural rigidity. Yet I wish Fiat's engineers had given them the heave-ho, and provided a way to roll down the fixed rear side windows, so the 500C would have the open-air look and feel of a real convertible.
All 500Cs come with antilock brakes, electronic stability control, traction control and enough air bags (seven altogether) to turn the Fiat into a four-wheel flotation device.
The 500C is often compared to the similarly adorable Mini convertible. But the 500C, which is seven inches shorter than the Mini, feels softer. The steering is considerably less crisp, and the Fiat leans more in the corners than its BMW-owned competitor. But the Fiat is quieter over every type of road.
Over all, the Mini feels more like an economical sports car, whereas the 500C feels more like a sporty economy car.
In addition, compared with the low-slung driving position of the Mini, the Fiat 500C's is noticeably loftier, like being perched on a sofa. Then again, Americans tend to enjoy sofas, which might explain Fiat's decision to equip American-bound 500s with wider front seats than models sold in Europe.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ROLLBACK: The 500C's roof retracts, impeding visibility, but the side rails stay in place. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (92%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



452 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL THINK CITY, SMART FORTWO ED AND MITSUBISHI I-MIEV; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2544 words

HEADLINE: Electric, if Not Electrifying: Cars for Short-Range Commutes

BYLINE: By BRADLEY BERMAN

 BODY:
BERKELEY, Calif.
IS there a need for a new breed of tiny gas-free commuter cars that match the old stereotypes of electric vehicles -- that they are puny, plasticky and incapable of going very far?
In recent weeks I've driven three such vehicles, all smaller and less substantial than the well-publicized Nissan Leaf, an electric compact, and Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in hybrid with a gasoline engine to back up its batteries.
The three new entries -- the Think City, the Smart Fortwo ED and the Mitsubishi i-MiEV (to be renamed the ''i'') -- do not pretend to be all things for all drivers. But neither are they glorified golf carts or low-speed neighborhood vehicles like the ones seen in retirement communities.
Rather, they represent the emergence of a new segment: the electric commuter car. More are coming -- from obscure start-ups like Wheego to industry stalwarts including Toyota. 
Yet these electric commuters could also end up as a niche within a niche -- overshadowed by more versatile and polished electric vehicles -- before consumers have given them half a chance.
So the immediate question is this: Will enough Americans embrace cars sized and powered for a basic function -- navigating congested urban traffic with one or two people on board -- without insisting on capabilities they will seldom if ever use, like cross-country range and trailer-towing capacity?
The cars' shapes are awkward and their names are somewhat silly: City? ED? Lowercase i? But all three are quite real, are all available to buy or lease (or soon will be) and all have some degree of highway functionality and big-boy features.
While each has some desirable aspects, all are relatively expensive and none come remotely close to earning the title of ''first great electric commuter car.''
Here are some impressions:
Think City
I had a blast driving the Think City, the most engaging and spirited car of the trio. Part of the fun is that the City, rather than try to disguise its plasticness, fully embraces and celebrates its polymer grandeur.
The City is two feet longer than the minuscule Smart, and its body panels are made of recyclable plastic that resists scratches and dings. Its 37-kilowatt motor (equivalent to 50 horsepower) and 23-kilowatt-hour lithium-ion battery pack provide a surprisingly zippy drive, at least in the mostly stop-and-go traffic of the San Francisco Bay Area. I started to imagine the City as the runt nephew of the electric Tesla Roadster, especially when the canvas top was retracted.
The virtues of an electric car -- swift, smooth and mostly silent operation -- felt amplified relative to the expectation that the pint-size City would be underpowered. Heads turned on city streets and shook in surprise as it quickly bolted to 40 m.p.h. when the light turned green or zoomed to 70 m.p.h., its top speed, on the highway.
The Think City -- a car born in Norway, previously assembled in Finland and now in production in Indiana -- follows the same Scandinavia-to-America trajectory as Ikea furniture. Could anyone have predicted that unassembled goods designed for space-constrained urbanites would become a mainstream American home-furnishing outlet?
Yet Ikea thrives because it answers a need for cool-on-the-cheap. And if the City works in Oslo, where gas costs about $9 a gallon, then why not in New York or San Francisco, where the price at the pumps flirted with $5 a gallon this year and parking is scarce?
Unlike Ikea's bookshelves, the Think City doesn't require assembly, but evidence of its hand-wrought quality is abundant. Welding marks are visible on hinges and seams. Rain had apparently seeped through the hatch of the test car; the hinge bolts had rusted. The bargain-bin radio seemed wedged into the dashboard, and the drop-down cup holders were asking to be broken off.
None of that mattered to me, because I was having so much fun darting between lanes, zipping across the Golden Gate or cruising the hipper quarters of Berkeley. The City's entire back hatch is glass, affording excellent visibility.
The hand-assembled feel was only the first item on my long list of gripes. The quiet of the electric motor in city driving was interrupted by buzzes, hums and burps from the mechanical systems. On the highway, the motor's whine varied from something like a small jet engine to a dentist's drill.
The dashboard conveniently displayed the battery state-of-charge as a percentage number -- the most useful metric -- but the other power meters were superfluous at best.
My raves about the performance of the City, or its top speed, are limited to its D driving mode. The car also has an E (economy) mode, which robbed the throttle of its fun. On the highway, E reduced the top speed to about 58 m.p.h. That proved inadequate, so I kept moving back to D, which allowed a steady cruise of 65-70 m.p.h.
The E mode is there to extend the driving range, but that's one area for which I have no complaint. It's worth repeating: designed for urban use, the Think City served that purpose well. Even though D reduced the comfortable real-world range from the advertised 100 miles to about 75, the best I managed between charges was 69 miles.
The weather throughout my testing was generally mild, without the temperature extremes that tax batteries.
On most days, like many urban dwellers, I drive less than 20 or 30 miles, and on some days I travel only three or four miles. An electric car is perfect for this life style, and even with a standard 110-volt outlet I was able to top off the batteries between local trips.
I found the Think City comfortable, despite its small size, with enough room for my 6-foot-4 frame. But any fantasies about buying a Think City quickly passed, for at least two reasons.
The car handled commuting to work, taking children to school and running local errands, but several times in my week with the car I needed to schlep both my son and daughter at the same time -- not possible with a two-seater.
The bigger obstacle is cost -- that is, if you can pin the company down on the price. In Indiana, the City has been on sale for a few months for about $34,000 before federal and local incentives for zero-emission vehicles, which could knock the price down by $10,000 or more. But other people at the company told me the City would eventually sell for more than $40,000.
I can't imagine anybody spending even the lesser of those figures for the City, no matter how well it fits into their lives. For comparison, the much more capable Leaf -- a fully featured $32,000 electric car with four doors and seating for five -- will be available nationwide by early next year.
Smart Fortwo ED
While the Think makes a gallant effort to provide a smooth carbon-free commute, the Smart ED doesn't come close. Like the gas-powered Smart Fortwo, the electric version is from Daimler, the German engineering powerhouse that makes Mercedes-Benz vehicles and has decades of experience with electric drivetrains. So you can't blame the ED's poor showing on a lack of resources or expertise.
The ED stands for electric drive, not the male sexual malady, yet its performance can only be described as ineffectual. The 30-kilowatt electric motor (equivalent to 40 horsepower) that powers its rear wheels is not a lot smaller than the Think City's 37-kilowatt motor, but it feels as if it were.
It's as if Smart provided the diminished economy mode but forgot to offer settings for routine or performance driving. The maximum speed is 60 m.p.h. and nothing more, despite the fact that the Smart ED's battery pack and drivetrain derive from Daimler's partnership with Tesla Motors, the maker of screaming-fast electric sports cars.
Fully charged, the 16-kilowatt-hour pack in the Smart ED realistically provides energy for only about 60 miles, 10 or so fewer than the Think City. The Smart also has noticeably less pep on city streets. In fact, the Smart's drivetrain sometimes seemed to struggle to make any forward momentum at all.
Like the Tesla Roadster and Mini E, the Smart offers no simulated creeping -- the 1 m.p.h. forward movement that gas cars provide at idle. When I backed out of the driveway and slipped the shifter into Drive, the car continued to roll backward until I fully applied the brake, at which point the motor could finally propel the car forward.
Worse, the pedals were uncomfortably close to each other, and a post under the brake pedal partly blocked accelerator access for my size 12 shoe.
These problems are bad enough for city driving, but a 70-mile round trip from Berkeley to Palo Alto was absolutely harrowing. Range wasn't an issue -- there was a 240-volt charger at my destination -- but the experience on the road was horrendous. With my foot to the floor, the Smart managed only 55 m.p.h. while fighting winds whipping across the Dunbarton Bridge.
Keeping the microcar out of the way of 18-wheelers on Interstate 880 through Oakland made the Slower Traffic Keep Right sign unnecessary; I clung to the right lane for survival as small gasoline cars passed with no effort.
Yes, these city E.V.'s are intended for urban areas, but even city drivers sometimes need to drive on highways.
I was relieved to get off the freeway and back onto Berkeley's relatively tame streets and the environment for which the Smart ED was intended. In stop-and-go traffic I could appreciate the car's aesthetics.
Compared with the Lego-toy feel of the Think City, the Smart is well-hewn. The steering wheel was wrapped in leather. The seats provided real lumbar support. The stylish gauges in pods protruding from the dash -- the one on the left indicating the state of battery charge -- were useful and even elegant.
Daimler did a great job of reducing interior noise, and the cabin was artfully designed and executed. The two-seat configuration, was also generously sized for two people, though the Smart had much less cargo space. For all its shortcomings, the Smart proves an electric commuter can be nicely appointed.
Like the Think, the Smart is not priced to move. The four-year $599-a-month lease (with $2,500 down), combined with a lack of power, makes the ED a poor choice.
Mitsubishi i-MiEV
After my less than satisfying experiences driving the first two small E.V.'s, I might have abandoned any notion that cities of the future would buzz with right-size cars powered by electricity.
But two events occurred after I started my experiment: the one-year anniversary of the Gulf oil spill and the return of $4 gas nationwide. In that context, the Mitsubishi arrived. My test car was labeled an i-MiEV, but a revised version will be sold as the Mitsubishi i.
In many respects, the i-MiEV offered more of the same. The interior screams ''cheap.'' The bubblelike design is goofy. The doors close with a meek ping. The upright seating forces tall drivers to get creative with their knees.
But the car has four doors and a legitimate back seat for two passengers. My Euro-spec test model was about a foot longer than the Think City and two feet longer than the Smart ED, and by the time the American version arrives late this year, it will have grown another 11 inches longer and 5 inches wider.
The motor of the United States version will also grow to 49 kilowatts, from 47, and the tuning will be ''Americanized.'' I'm hoping Mitsubishi doesn't fix what isn't broken.
The i-MiEV is already perfectly tuned to my tastes -- quick, but not jumpy like the Think. Put your foot into the pedal and it eases forward without lurching; keep your foot moving, and around 10 m.p.h. the acceleration really picks up. The driving engagement is there, along with smooth and silent torque.
That's in D mode. Put it in B, for braking, and the regenerative system, which turns the electric motor into a generator and puts energy back in the batteries, increases its grab, forcefully decelerating the car. The i-MiEV had the most aggressive regen of the cars.
For reference, the Nissan Leaf has an 80-kilowatt motor and the Chevrolet Volt carries a 111-kilowatt motor, but electric cars are as much about digital calibration as pure power. In my view, Mitsubishi's engineers got the drivetrain just right, mapping the power delivery to the needs of a local commuter.
Combine that with an actual back seat, air-conditioning that worked well, an adequate stereo, heated seats and a battery pack capable of about 60 miles, and you have a nice package.
The price, while not cheap, is also closer to being realistic for a minicar. The base model starts at $28,810, including shipping, which after a $7,500 federal tax credit and a $5,000 rebate in California means a net cost of $16,310 -- a reasonable value proposition.
An upgrade package includes something I consider crucial: a quick-charge port capable of taking the 16 kilowatt-hour battery pack from depletion to 90 percent charged in about 20 minutes, adding 50 miles of range in the time it takes to pick up a latte.
There's now only one DC fast charger in Northern California, in the bedroom community of Vacaville, a little more than halfway to Sacramento from San Francisco. It had been set up last year as a Pacific Gas and Electric demo unit, but was later shut down. The utility offered to fire it up for me, so I took the 45-mile journey to check it out.
The fast charger, roughly the size of a gas pump, injected 10 kilowatt hours of electric fuel (about 40 miles worth) into the Mitsubishi in 15 minutes. Twenty of these chargers will be installed throughout the Bay Area in the next year, and more will surely follow, in addition to thousands of 240-volt chargers at homes, offices and shopping malls.
Batteries full, my trip home was free of concern about range. By the time I approached the bay, Interstate 80 had become a slow-moving parking lot of mostly solo drivers surrounded by two tons of metal. My Mitsubishi crept along at 10 m.p.h. like every other vehicle, except it was the only car not spewing emissions, not making a sound and not using a drop of gasoline. My cost per mile, about 3 cents, was a fraction of the expense for my fellow commuters (about 12 cents a mile for a gasoline car getting 30 m.p.g.).
Given their oversize price tags, the E.V.'s I evaluated -- except perhaps the Mitsubishi -- have little hope for market success. Their prospects were made tougher by the arrival of the Volt and Leaf, which not only offer more horsepower, passenger space and cargo capacity, but also the latest entertainment, telematics and luxury features.
Automotive history is littered with failed attempts at true innovation, products that came to market too early or too late but still signaled a direction for the evolution of the car. Decades in the future, when cities are filled with small commuter E.V.'s networked into a grid of electrified urban mobility, we may look back at the Think City, Smart ED and Mitsubishi i-MiEV as small but important steps toward shaping vehicles to truly match transportation needs.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, a review last Sunday about three electric commuter cars misidentified the secondary drive system of another car, the Chevrolet Volt, which is a plug-in hybrid. The Volt has a gasoline engine to back up its batteries, not an electric motor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE LIGHT BRIGADE: Clockwise from left, Smart ED, Think City and Mitsubishi i-MiEV, to be called the i when it goes on sale in the United States. (AU1)
EMBRACING THE PLASTIC: Think City isn't elegant, but legroom is adequate.
POD: Smart ED's state-of-charge meter protrudes from dashboard.
 FILL 'ER UP: Using a fast charger on the Mitsubishi i-MiEV. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRADLEY BERMAN) (AU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); GOLF (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011



453 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Your 4-Year-Old Can't Do That

BYLINE: By NOAH HOROWITZ. 
Noah Horowitz, director of the VIP Art Fair, is the author of ''Art of the Deal: Contemporary Art in a Global Financial Market.''

 BODY:
THE art market has made a remarkable recovery from the depths of the financial crisis, and so perhaps it is not surprising that in this time of optimism a 4-year-old girl would be the latest sensation. An exhibition of work by the wonderkid painter Aelita Andre opened on June 4 at the Agora Gallery in Manhattan for a three-week run.
Replete with colorful canvases that make no uncertain reference to the Abstract Expressionist legacy of old, most of the work has been sold, according to the gallery's Web site. Collectors have reportedly spent upwards of $24,000 for what the gallery has called Aelita's ''contemplative and powerful'' canvases. Is Aelita, an Australian of Russian descent, the next Jackson Pollock? Or, given her (handlers') apparent mastery of P.R. spin, tomorrow's Damien Hirst? 
This is not the first time Aelita has been in the limelight. She was included in a group exhibition in the Brunswick Street Gallery in London when she was a ripe 22 months old. She was billed at the time as the youngest artist ever to present work in a commercial exhibition. As the story goes, an artist featured in the exhibition, Nikka Kalashnikova, had shown work by the then-unknown painter to the curator. This is common enough in an industry driven by social connections and insider tip-offs, and the curator accepted it for the show. Only after the fact was it revealed that the artist was a toddler, and Ms. Kalashnikova her mother. The girl's father is also an artist.
Agora Gallery's Web site has no shortage of accolades about Aelita's apparent genius and miraculous ascent to fame. It also includes a rather mesmerizing 13-minute video of the artist at work, flinging paint onto canvases on the floor. The comparison to Hans Namuth's famous photos and film of Pollock laboring in his Long Island barn is unmistakable.
And the works themselves? ''Butterfly Nebula 4'' presents an abstract gestural landscape against a dark background, across which masks appear to float in nothingness. ''Three Amblers and a Dancing Clown'' verges on figuration; it is tempting to connect the splashes and dots in one's imagination to eyes, heads and limbs. The suite of works, in other words, is utterly inoffensive and unerringly ''artistic'' -- not unlike what we have become accustomed to seeing in hotels, corporate lobbies and living rooms the world over. Many would probably agree that they are quite beautiful.
Mainstream fixation with stories like Aelita's stems from the ''my kid could do that'' impulse, combined with the inherent amazement over who would pay five-figure sums for a child's painting -- and why. Aelita is certainly capable of putting a picture together (although it has been alleged that her parents have an oversize hand, quite literally perhaps, in creating these works, and presumably also in naming them), but the same can be said of any number of aspiring artists who at some point have experimented with the medium. And that is precisely the point: arguably what distinguishes Aelita's work is that there is a story behind it and at least a modicum of pedigree, as she has now shown her works in several galleries and generated some press to boot.
This may seem trite, but art has long been about manufacturing narratives and creating just the right context. And it's a sensible and direct solution for an industry without formalized barriers to entry or fiscal regulation. Leo Castelli, the famed dealer behind the careers of Robert Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns, may have put it best when he described his day-to-day job as nothing less than the ''myth-making of myth material.'' Why not $24,000 for a child's doodle? The thrill of the chase knows no bounds.
Fortunately, however, it takes more than some initial hype and pretty pictures for an artist to sustain serious attention over the course of a career. Originality and a critical thought process are essential, coupled with the support and patronage of big players along the way. On this account, young Aelita faces a sterner test. Whatever their aesthetic charm, her canvases are hardly novel from a formal vantage, nor do they provide added meaning below the surface.
This latter point is particularly critical. An art world that has accepted, reluctantly or not, elephant dung (Chris Ofili), urine (Andy Warhol, Andres Serrano) and sheer nothingness (Yves Klein) as art has done so principally out of an appreciation for the artist's agency: typically, what the artist has to say about society, and how this is materialized through the art. A lot of things might come from a young child, but reflection and reverence are not at the top of the list. Her reception as an artist with a capital ''A'' is stunted as a result, our attraction to her seeming to have more in common with the allure of the perverse tales that clutter the blogosphere (a cigarette-smoking 2-year-old providing a recent, if appalling, counterpoint) than any genuine engagement.
Given these reservations, perhaps it should come as no surprise that the Agora Gallery operates a pay-to-exhibit business, with artists (or their parents) contributing a minimum of $3,000 to show there. This approach might help ignite the media engine, but it hardly ensures that reputable critics and curators will take the work seriously. In fact, the explicit commercial mentality may be at odds with the elitist machinery that leading dealers deploy. Blue-chip galleries do not accept payments from artists to exhibit with them; they ''represent'' artists and ''place'' their work within established collections, and it's no mistake, either, that prices are absent from the wall labels of today's prestigious gallery spaces. Denial of commercial associations, after all, is the surest way to make something truly priceless.
So is Aelita's claim to artistic fame legitimate? Certainly not. But as a piece of theater, the circus encircling her isn't half-bad. Or perhaps her parents were onto something when recounting how upset their daughter became on not seeing her work at the Museum of Modern Art during their latest trip to New York. At least we know that she thinks like an artist. And maybe for a 4-year-old, that's not the worst place to start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



454 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: The Annuity Question

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Annuities and the Puzzle of Income'' (Economic View, June 5), in which Richard H. Thaler described some advantages of buying annuities: 
Annuities are superficially attractive, but they have important flaws the column did not discuss. People don't tend to buy diversified sets of annuities, and because they are issued by inherently leveraged financial intermediaries, there can be material credit risks that are hard to assess over the 20- to- 40-year horizon of their payouts.
Annuity providers also incur sales charges and operating expenses, and need capital and a cushion of economic earnings. Those costs may not be incurred by someone making their own investments, or doing so through lower-cost vehicles.
Finally, inflation is an even more important consideration. Not discussing it is like playing ''Hamlet'' without the prince. In 30 years, the level of consumer prices in the United States might double or sextuple. The first would be painful, and the second ruinous, to someone who relied only on a fixed annuity.
Paul J. Isaac
Manhattan, June 5
The writer is the portfolio manager at Arbiter Partners, a hedge fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNUITIES (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); WRITERS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



455 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Joanna Slusky, David Gershkoff

 BODY:
Joanna Sarah Slusky and David Jason Gershkoff are to be married Sunday at the Hyatt Regency in New Brunswick, N.J. Rabbi Loel Weiss is to officiate, with Rabbi Ethan Tucker taking part. 
The bride, 31, is keeping her name. She is a postdoctoral fellow at Stockholm University. She graduated magna cum laude from Princeton and received a doctorate in biochemistry and molecular biophysics from the University of Pennsylvania.
Dr. Slusky is a daughter of Susan E. G. Slusky of Highland Park, N.J., and Ronald D. Slusky of New York. The bride's father is a patent lawyer in private practice in New York. Her mother, a physicist, retired from Bell Labs in Holmdel, N.J.
The bridegroom, 27, is taking his wife's name. He is pursuing a doctorate in economics at Princeton. He graduated magna cum laude from Yale.
He is the son of Grace L. Gershkoff and Dr. Arthur M. Gershkoff of Ardmore, Pa. His father, a physiatrist, is the clinical director of stroke rehabilitation at MossRehab Hospital in Elkins Park, Pa. The bridegroom's mother is the executive director of Congregation Beth Am Israel in Penn Valley, Pa.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINA JANG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); BIOPHYSICS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); PHYSICS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PATENTS (54%); STROKE TREATMENT & REHABILITATION (51%)

COMPANY: BELL LABORATORIES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



456 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, June 12th 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the June 12, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending May 28, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList11THOSE GUYS HAVE ALL THE FUN, by James Andrew Miller and Tom Shales. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An oral history of the sports network ESPN. 213IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $26.) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazi Party concentrates on William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 3*1THE GREATER JOURNEY, by David McCullough. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $37.50.) The historian explores the intellectual legacy that France settled on its 19th-century visitors. 458BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown, $26.99.) A memoir from the creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 533LIES THAT CHELSEA HANDLER TOLD ME, by Chelsea Handler, Glen Handler, Roy Handler and others. (Grand Central, $24.99.) Handler&#39;s friends, family members and colleagues write about being victims of her practical jokes. 624DOES THE NOISE IN MY HEAD BOTHER YOU?, by Steven Tyler with David Dalton. (Ecco, $27.99.) The singer and showman recounts the rise, fall and rise of Aerosmith. 7828UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#39;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 843SEAL TEAM SIX, by Howard E. Wasdin and Stephen Templin. (St. Martin&#39;s, $26.99.) An expert sniper and former member of the Navy Seals recounts his training and missions. 972AREA 51, by Annie Jacobsen. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An account of the mysterious military installation, which the author contends is the home of secret espionage programs. 10112THE PSYCHOPATH TEST, by Jon Ronson. (Riverhead, $25.95.) A look into a potential hoax in the scientific community spurs a journey into the world of psychopathy. 1195STORIES I ONLY TELL MY FRIENDS, by Rob Lowe. (Holt, $26.) The actor charts his professional path. 12122ON CHINA, by Henry Kissinger. (Penguin Press, $36.) China and America are mutually dependent economic giants, Kissinger writes, but they need a design of partnership. 131BLIND ALLEGIANCE TO SARAH PALIN, by Frank Bailey with Ken Morris and Jeanne Devon. (Howard, $26.) A memoir about working on primary and general election campaigns for the former governor of Alaska. 1462WHERE&#39;S THE BIRTH CERTIFICATE?, by Jerome R. Corsi. (WND, $25.95.) An argument that President Obama is not a natural-born U.S. citizen. &#8224;15104THE HEART AND THE FIST, by Eric Greitens. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $27.) A Navy Seal describes his military deployments and his larger vision of public service.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. IF YOU ASK ME, by Betty White. (Putnam)
17. LOST IN SHANGRI-LA, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (Harper)
18. FROM THIS MOMENT ON, by Shania Twain. (Atria)
19. DOG SENSE, by John Bradshaw. (Basic)
20. MY LUCKY LIFE IN AND OUT OF SHOW BUSINESS, by Dick Van Dyke. (Crown Archetype)
21. RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT, by Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner. (Henry Holt/Times)
22. THE SOCIAL ANIMAL, by David Brooks. (Random House)
23. THIS IS A BOOK, by Demetri Martin. (Grand Central)
24. WILLIAM AND CATHERINE, by Andrew Morton. (St. Martin&#39;s)
25. A SINGULAR WOMAN, by Janny Scott. (Riverhead)
26. NOT DEAD AND NOT FOR SALE, by Scott Weiland with David Ritz. (Scribner)
27. STAN MUSIAL, by George Vecsey. (ESPN)
28. THE NOTES, by Ronald Reagan. Edited by Douglas Brinkley. (HarperCollins)
29. ---------- MY DAD SAYS, by Justin Halpern. (It Books/HarperCollins)
30. SHE WALKS IN BEAUTY, selected and introduced by Caroline Kennedy. (Voice/Hyperion)
31. THE CAPTAIN, by Ian O&#39;Connor. (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt)
32. UNTIL TUESDAY, by Luis Carlos Montalvan with Bret Witter. (Hyperion)
33. THE ROYAL WEDDING OF PRINCE WILLIAM AND KATE MIDDLETON, by Life Magazine Editors. (Time)
34. PHYSICS OF THE FUTURE, by Michio Kaku. (Doubleday)
35. THE GEEKS SHALL INHERIT THE EARTH, by Alexandra Robbins. (Hyperion)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); HISTORY (87%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); SPORTS (72%); OLYMPICS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); RUNNING (67%); ESPIONAGE (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (51%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



457 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Paperback Nonfiction: Sunday, June 12th 2011

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the June 12, 2011 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending May 28, 2011. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Paperback NonfictionThisOnWeekList128HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson, $16.99.) A boy&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels. 21THANK YOU NOTES, by Jimmy Fallon with the writers of &#34;Late Night&#34;. (Grand Central, $12.) Many things give the TV host opportunities to be grateful. 312THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Broadway, $16.) The story of a woman whose cancer cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 44LIFE, by Keith Richards with James Fox. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $16.99.) The Rolling Stones guitarist&#8217;s revealing autobiography. 51MESSENGER, by Jeni Stepanek with Larry Lindner. (NAL, $15.) The story of the author&#8217;s son, who died of a rare form of muscular dystrophy. 69BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Vintage, $15.95.) Secrets of distance running from a Mexican Indian tribe. 73EMPIRE OF THE SUMMER MOON, by S.&#38;#8201;C. Gwynne. (Scribner, $16.) The story of Quanah Parker, the last chief of the Comanches. 8*64LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $8.99 and $15.99.) A Navy Seals operation goes horribly awry. 9221THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $15.) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she was constantly on the move. &#8224;1034INSIDE OF A DOG, by Alexandra Horowitz. (Scribner, $16.) The world from a dog&#8217;s point of view. 112WAR, by Sebastian Junger. (Twelve, $15.99.) The intense lives of American soldiers in a corner of Afghanistan, by the author of &#8220;The Perfect Storm.&#8221; 1216TOO BIG TO FAIL, by Andrew Ross Sorkin. (Penguin, $18.) The 2008 financial implosion on Wall Street and in Washington, by a New York Times business columnist. 1317THE BIG SHORT, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $15.95.) The people who saw the real estate crash coming and made billions from their foresight. 1419590 MINUTES IN HEAVEN, by Don Piper with Cecil Murphey. (Revell, $13.99.) A minister on the otherworldly experience he had after an accident. 15*8DRIVE, by Daniel H. Pink. (Riverhead, $16.) A look at what truly motivates us, and how we can use that knowledge to work smarter and live better. 16135MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. (Bloomsbury, $14.95.) A memoir of one-night stands. 171SUPERFREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Harper Perennial, $15.99.) How to apply economic theory to everything: the sequel. 1870ARE YOU THERE, VODKA? IT&#8217;S ME, CHELSEA, by Chelsea Handler. (Gallery, $16.) Humorous personal essays from the comedian. 19*8HAVE A LITTLE FAITH, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $13.99.) A suburban rabbi and a Detroit pastor teach lessons about the comfort of belief. 204MEDIUM RAW, by Anthony Bourdain. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $15.99.) The author of &#8220;Kitchen Confidential&#8221; looks at changes in food culture.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
21. THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown)
22. ZEITOUN, by Dave Eggers. (Vintage)
23. JUST KIDS, by Patti Smith. (Ecco)
24. WHAT THE DOG SAW, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little Brown)
25. EAT, PRAY, LOVE, by Elizabeth Gilbert. (Penguin)
26. QUIET HERO, by Rita Cosby. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
27. FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Harper Perennial)
28. THE REASON FOR GOD, by Timothy Keller. (Riverhead)
29. THE CHECKLIST MANIFESTO, by Atul Gawande. (Picador)
30. THE ZOMBIE SURVIVAL GUIDE, by Max Brooks. (Three Rivers)
31. BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown)
32. THE PRODIGAL GOD, by Timothy Keller. (Riverhead)
33. IN DEFENSE OF FOOD, by Michael Pollan. (Penguin)
34. A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux)
35. HALF THE SKY, by Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn. (Vintage)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); WRITERS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (71%); RUNNING (62%); GENETIC DISEASES (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RICHARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



458 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
JAY LENO
President Obama and House Speaker John Boehner have agreed to play a round of golf together. Oh, please. Imagine the two of them at the end of the golf game? Boehner will be crying over the score, and Obama will be giving three explanations as to why his score is actually better than it appears. Well, now it looks like Vice President Joe Biden will be joining them. Well, sure. Somebody's got to carry the bags. 
Well, according to the latest ABC News poll, President Obama and Mitt Romney are in a virtual tie. Well, that's not surprising. Of course they're in a tie. They both endorsed the same exact health care plan. That's why they're tied.
DAVID LETTERMAN
How many of you folks have Mitt Romney fever? Well, Mitt Romney is saying that he believes and agrees that the world is getting warmer but he's got a plan. If he is elected president, you know what Mitt Romney is going to do because of the global warming climate change? He's going to loosen his tie.
CONAN O'BRIEN
Hey, it's been reported that the Chinese economy has showed signs of slowing down. Yeah. Experts say that that is what happens when your work force starts to enter its teens.
JIMMY FALLON
President Obama has offered bailout money to keep Greece from defaulting on its loans. Yeah, when Greece thanked him, Obama was like, ''Don't mention it to China 'cause it's their money.''

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Gary Clement: National Post (Canada), CartoonArts International
Jack Ohman: The Oregonian, Tribune Media Services
Drew Sheneman: The Star-Ledger (Newark, N.J.) Tribune Media Services
 Jeff Danziger: CartoonArts International 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOLF (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); BAILOUTS (71%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (71%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (90%); JAY LENO (74%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); CONAN O'BRIEN (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (66%) NEW JERSEY, USA (66%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



459 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; GAMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Different Strokes

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr.

 BODY:
MIAMI -- On the first tee, President Lyndon B. Johnson often warned his golfing partners, ''One lesson you'd better learn if you want to be in politics is you never get out on a golf course and beat the president.''
House Speaker John A. Boehner is unlikely to heed that advice when he and President Obama play a highly anticipated round of golf on Saturday. For one thing, Speaker Boehner, who has worked hard to maintain his single-digit handicap, is a better golfer than the president (by as many as 15 strokes, according to reliable estimates) and is not expected to dutifully tank his own game. Already, the Ohio Republican has used the ''golf summit'' as a chance to score a few political points off Mr. Obama, who finally -- after much prodding by Mr. Boehner -- invited the Republican leader to play 18 holes with him. 
Last week Mr. Boehner embraced a ''very good idea'' he said he'd heard on a cable TV program -- a suggestion that he tell Mr. Obama: ''Mr. President, you can have all the strokes you want. It'll just cost you a trillion dollars per stroke.''
In the annals of presidential golf history, the Obama-Boehner round next weekend is an oddity. A president has never played a round of golf with the leader of the opposing party who was also considered a near-lock to win the match (the closest thing was a round L. B. J. played with Dwight D. Eisenhower in February 1968 at Seven Lakes Country Club in Palm Springs, Calif.; Ike won in a breeze). So, perhaps Mr. Obama deserves to be spotted a few free strokes for sporting courage.
More important, the timing of the ''golf summit'' is curious (and not just because it coincides with the United States Open at nearby Congressional Country Club in Bethesda, Md.). Two wars (three, if you count health care; four, if you count Libya), a stubborn economic downturn and partisan rancor combine to make the president's decision to play with Mr. Boehner a surprise and one that appears to offer more downside than upside to the White House.
Perhaps Mr. Obama was motivated in part to try to neutralize the criticism leveled by some right-leaning commentators about his Sunday devotion to golfing with his buddies; they see him benefitting from a media double standard that hurts Republican presidents who take to the links. But despite all the noise, Mr. Obama has played less often than some presidents, like the Democrat Bill Clinton and the Republican Eisenhower, although more frequently than other Republicans, like George W. Bush and his father. Some might say there is a another double standard: Mr. Boehner's longtime passion for playing golf with lobbyists to raise money for his political action committee scarcely raises eyebrows.
But the president, who has not used golf outings to raise money for his re-election campaign (much to the chagrin of senior Democratic fund-raisers), takes a different approach to the game. He rarely, if ever, plays golf for anything but fun. Mr. Obama's more than 70 rounds as president have been played almost exclusively with a tight circle of White House aides and close friends from Chicago or Hawaii, usually on one of Andrews Air Force Base's three championship-level courses.
Mr. Boehner has been practicing often of late, and he has sounded determined not only to defeat the president but do it by a lot of strokes. Meanwhile, expectations of a golf-cart political breakthrough are being lowered at the White House and on Capitol Hill. ''They will not resolve the budget negotiations on the back nine -- at least I don't expect that,'' Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said last week. ''This is more of a social outing.''
Nearly all past golfing presidents didn't bother with such outreach to opponents, sticking instead to playing with members of their own party. President John F. Kennedy, for example, played a round or two with senators -- William Stuart Symington and George Smathers, both friendly Democrats. As the best presidential golfer and a member of the Harvard golf team, J. F. K. could more than hold his own. President Warren G. Harding played with like-minded senators and congressmen but politics was absent; they all wagered heavily on the action (during some rounds, there was a bet on every swing). They also drank on the course and in the clubhouse -- during Prohibition.
Beginning with William Howard Taft, 15 of the past 18 presidents have played golf. Most, like Eisenhower, Clinton and Gerald R. Ford, played for the sheer love of the game, even if their frequent rounds (and sometimes iffy score-keeping) caused political opponents to snipe and gripe. Ike, in particular, played so often that his critics said he invented the 36-hole work week. A few presidents, like Calvin Coolidge and Ronald Reagan, played sparingly and even somewhat grimly.
Like most of his predecessors, Mr. Obama says he enjoys golf because it allows him to momentarily escape the pressures of the Oval Office. Happily, he leaves the public and the press behind on the first tee, and doesn't have to see them again until a few paces past the 18th green. No reporters, armed with scorecards and little pencils, are permitted to follow.
''It's the only excuse I have to get outside for four hours at a stretch,'' Mr. Obama has said.
The gilded game has never boosted a president's approval rating. The political scandals involving Tom DeLay, Jack Abramoff and golf have not helped. And in late 2003, President George W. Bush stopped playing, saying, ''I don't want some mom whose son may have recently died to see the commander in chief playing golf.''
Only one president played golf purely for political reasons. L. B. J. had zero interest in the game until his aides convinced him that he could use Congressional Country Club and other courses to lobby recalcitrant senators to support his civil rights legislation. If he got that, he'd chalk up an afternoon chasing a little white ball as something other than a waste of time.
When asked to reveal Mr. Obama's current handicap, Mr. Carney, the White House spokesman, joked, ''That's classified.'' L. B. J., on the other hand, said: ''I don't have a handicap. I'm all handicap.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (93%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



460 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2719 words

HEADLINE: Banker With A Long Shadow

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
FRANKFURT
LATE one night in September 2008, as the financial world trembled, Josef Ackermann received an urgent call from Berlin.
On the line was Angela Merkel, the German chancellor. She needed his help -- now.
A big German bank was about to collapse, much the way Lehman Brothers had only days before. It was 12:45 a.m. and shaky financial markets were about to open across Asia. Fear was in the air.
Mrs. Merkel asked whether Mr. Ackermann, the head of Deutsche Bank, could help rescue the failing lender.
He could, and he did. Within minutes, he persuaded German bankers to pledge 8.5 billion euros for a bailout. 
Mr. Ackermann, 63, emerged from the panic of 2008 as the most powerful banker in Europe and, depending on whom you ask, possibly the most dangerous one, too. As the chief executive of Europe's largest bank and a symbol of German financial might, he is at the center of more concentric circles of power than any other banker on the Continent.
From this seat at the nexus of money and politics, Mr. Ackermann, for better or worse, is helping to shape Europe's economic and financial future. He regularly advises politicians and policy makers on the most pressing economic issues of the day: the smoldering debt crises in Greece; the widening gulf between the economically strong nations of Europe, like Germany, and weaker ones like Ireland and Portugal; and the future of Europe's economic and monetary union and that grand venture's most manifest expression, the euro.
But it is no secret where Mr. Ackermann's financial allegiances lie: with the banks. For instance, he has insisted that providing some sort of debt relief for Greece would be a huge mistake. Such a move -- a restructuring, in banking parlance -- would involve writing down Greece's debt, which is now more than 140 percent of its gross domestic product, deferring payments and cutting interest rates.
What would be so bad about that? European banks, including German ones like Deutsche Bank, hold many billions of euros in Greek government bonds, and the banks would lose big if those debts were restructured. For the moment, Europe's solution for Greece is, essentially, Mr. Ackermann's: more bailout money and more austerity -- an approach that some economists say only buys time without offering any hope of recovery.
Mr. Ackermann, like many of his counterparts in the United States, has also argued against tighter regulation of the post-crisis financial industry. His visibility as an industry advocate stems in part from his chairmanship of the Institute of International Finance, an association of the world's biggest banks, including American ones like Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup. The group has released studies contending, among other things, that compelling banks to reduce their use of leverage -- a move that would almost certainly reduce banks' profits -- would cause a credit crunch. That's ridiculous, some economists counter.
''Most of the arguments made by the bankers and the I.I.F. in particular are just fallacious,'' says Martin Hellwig, an economist and a director of the Bonn branch of the Max Planck Institute.
Even some of Mr. Ackermann's peers in banking are uncomfortable with his positions. One senior European banking executive said he thought Mr. Ackermann's zealous defense of banking interests failed to take public opinion into account. Like many ordinary Americans, many Europeans say they are paying the price for the excesses of bankers.
''As an industry, we have a reputational problem and we need to be aware of it and manage it properly,'' says this banker, who did not want to be quoted by name for fear of damaging his relationship with Mr. Ackermann.
THE twin towers of Deutsche Bank punctuate the skyline in this city of bankers. They stand as a monument to a bank that was founded in Berlin in 1870 to ease trade with overseas markets, and it is now among the largest banks in the world. Deutsche Bank operates in more than 70 countries and in virtually every corner of finance.
The man who runs this giant has neither the star quality of Jamie Dimon, the head of JPMorgan Chase, nor the polarizing power of Lloyd C. Blankfein, the head of Goldman Sachs. But in Germany, Josef Ackermann is a household name. And although admired by many, he has also become a lightning rod for public hostility toward banks. His name springs to mind for protesters when they look for a banker to demonize.
So it might come as a surprise that in person, Mr. Ackermann comes across as soft-spoken and almost a bit shy. That's all the more startling because he rose to the top of Deutsche Bank in 2002 after overseeing its investment bank, which isn't known for shrinking violets.
In an interview late last month high in Deutsche Bank's headquarters, surrounded by a few examples of the bank's collection of modern art, Mr. Ackermann portrayed himself as a man who enjoys the simple pleasures. During his rare moments of leisure time, he likes to hike in the Alps in Switzerland, his native country, or browse in bookstores on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. His bank has a large operation on Wall Street -- indeed, it helped inflate the American mortgage bubble -- and he keeps an apartment near Central Park.
Mr. Ackermann plays down his relationship with Mrs. Merkel, who has recently taken pains not to appear too close to him. Her office did not respond to requests for comment.
''We have a cordial and professional relationship,'' Mr. Ackermann says. ''But since the financial crisis, the relationship between banks and governments became more challenging.''
The relationship may not be as warm as it once was, but Mrs. Merkel, a pivotal player in European politics and economics, still calls on Mr. Ackermann. Since the European debt crisis unfolded in spring 2010, the two have been in direct contact numerous times, he says.
''He is a political animal,'' Roland Berger, founder of the management consulting firm that bears his name, and a longtime adviser to Mr. Ackermann, says of him. ''I'm not sure Germany without him would have mastered these critical situations as well as it did.''
Mr. Ackermann has offered advice to Mrs. Merkel and other political leaders on how to avoid spooking the markets with their public statements. Mr. Ackermann seems to enjoy a good relationship with Jean-Claude Trichet, the outgoing president of the European Central Bank, whose office is a few blocks from Deutsche Bank's headquarters here.
But Mr. Ackermann has also said some things that have displeased Mrs. Merkel. Soon after European leaders fashioned a bailout package for Greece last May, he warned that the country might not be able to repay its debts. The very existence of the euro, he cautioned, would be jeopardized if investors lost confidence in other weak economies in the 17-member monetary union.
His comments sent financial markets reeling, and prompted a rebuke from Mrs. Merkel's finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, who called them ''irritating'' and ''unhelpful.''
But last week, Mr. Ackermann's comments seemed prescient as Prime Minister George A. Papandreou of Greece struggled to persuade Parliament and the public that the nation must agree to more austerity measures to qualify for a second portion of loans from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.
And on Friday, Mr. Schauble himself warned that a failure to keep aid flowing raised ''an acute danger of Greece being unable to pay its debts, with grave consequences for the euro area.''
The vote on the new Greek measures, which include shutting public-sector enterprises and selling more assets is expected before the end of the month. In the interview in late May, Mr. Ackermann echoed the warnings that got him into hot water a year ago, saying the biggest challenge now was to ''convince people of any country to help Greece even more.''
He called on European governments to devise a ''Marshall Plan'' for Greece that would offer more aid, while forcing the country to sell billions of euros' worth of state assets, and provide a framework for rebuilding its economy.
European governments have largely followed that advice. At the same time, however, Mr. Ackermann has opposed the German government and sided with his friend Mr. Trichet at the European Central Bank in arguing against restructuring the Greek debt, which would force investors -- and banks -- to share Greece's pain.
Any restructuring, Mr. Ackermann cautions, could be even worse than the crisis brought on by Lehman's collapse. It could threaten the stability of major financial institutions, as well as the European Central Bank, which hold huge amounts of Greek debt, he says.
Worse, he says, there is a ''very serious'' risk of contagion in the euro area if the situation in Greece causes investors to lose confidence in other fragile European countries. ''If you could isolate the Greek case, then we'd be taking a very different approach,'' he says.
JOSEF ACKERMANN stands on the stage of the Festhalle, an arena here. The hall is almost full. Above him, his own face fills a giant video screen as he reads from a teleprompter.
This is the scene inside the annual shareholder meeting of Deutsche Bank, which was held in May. Mr. Ackermann's speech is being broadcast into adjacent rooms, where silver-haired shareholders line up at buffet tables to collect the free food that is known in Germany as the ''wurst dividend.'' His words even boom from speakers in the restrooms. Outside, a handful of protesters hand out leaflets calling for Deutsche Bank to be broken up.
On the dais, Mr. Ackermann alludes to the loss of confidence that the banking industry suffered as a result of the financial crisis, but says Deutsche Bank's reputation remains solid.
''Especially over the past few years,'' he tells the shareholders, ''Deutsche Bank has further enhanced the good reputation it enjoys all over the world.''
He continues: ''No business transaction is worth risking this good reputation and the bank's credibility.''
A few people in the audience boo. Most applaud.
In fact, the reputation of Deutsche Bank, and its leader, has taken a few hard blows at home and abroad. Deutsche Bank was a big player in those toxic collateralized debt obligations that Wall Street sold during the American mortgage bubble. This year, a Senate report about Wall Street and the financial crisis concluded that Deutsche Bank continued to churn out C.D.O.'s even as the market was collapsing. A top trader at the German bank also wagered against some of the mortgage bonds inside those C.D.O.'s, the report found, much the way Goldman Sachs has been accused of betting against its own clients. (Goldman denies that.)
In March, Germany's highest appeals court ruled that Deutsche Bank must compensate a small-business customer for losses incurred as a result of another type of derivative: interest-rate swaps. That decision could compel Deutsche Bank to compensate other business customers who contend that they were not warned of potential huge losses from the instruments. The ruling marred Deutsche Bank's image as friend of the Mittelstand, the midsize businesses that underpin the German economy.
Back in the United States, the federal government filed a civil suit in May that accuses a Deutsche Bank subsidiary, MortgageIT, of lying about the quality of home loans it handled under a government program and demanding that the bank repay hundreds of millions of dollars of losses on the loans.
Mr. Ackermann says that almost all the transactions at issue in that suit occurred before his bank acquired MortgageIT, a real estate investment trust, in 2007. Since the crisis, he says, the culture of Deutsche Bank has changed.
NEARLY a year after Congress passed rules to rein in banks in the United States, America's financial overhaul is mired in dissent. Europeans, too, want to get tougher on banks, but, as in the United States, the banks are pushing back.
Mr. Ackermann says he agrees that more banking regulation is needed, but warns that too much regulation would discourage banks from lending -- the argument that so irks economist critics.
It would be impossible to eliminate the risk of financial crises without hurting the economy, Mr. Ackermann says. ''If you wanted to reduce the probability to zero,'' he says, ''we would have trouble financing the real economy.''
On that point, many economists agree. But Mr. Ackermann says too much anger has been heaped upon banks like his. He boasts of how Deutsche Bank made it through the panic without direct government aid -- another contention that annoys his critics. In fact, Deutsche Bank received the equivalent of a back-door bailout from American taxpayers when the United States government intervened to prevent the American International Group, the insurer, from collapsing.
Mr. Ackermann says Deutsche Bank's direct exposure to A.I.G. would have resulted in a net loss of a few hundred million dollars, something that the bank would have been able to absorb.
But he acknowledges that if A.I.G. had been allowed to fail, Deutsche Bank -- as well as the entire global financial system -- would have been in much more trouble. ''Of course, in that sense, we are very grateful'' for governments' support of the financial system, he says.
Warm words aside, some argue that Mr. Ackermann has continued to take big risks even after the harrowing events of 2008. Simon Johnson, the former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund and a prominent critic of Wall Street, has called Mr. Ackermann ''one of the most dangerous bankers in the world.'' The reason, Mr. Johnson has said, is that Mr. Ackermann is still pushing Deutsche Bank for a 25 percent annual return on equity, before taxes. Such a goal, Mr. Johnson says, is bound to encourage its bankers and traders to take more risks and employ lots of leverage, which can fuel profits on the way up but amplify losses on the way down.
Mr. Hellwig, the economist, says such hefty returns are possible only for banks that know they would be rescued if they ran into trouble -- in other words, for banks too big to fail. Banks themselves would never lend to businesses that had such leverage, he says.
Mr. Ackermann maintains that his bank has drastically cut back on risky businesses. For example, he says, it no longer trades with its own money. He has promised to put more emphasis on traditional forms of banking, like providing advice and lending to midsize businesses. Last year, Deutsche Bank extended its German retail network by acquiring Postbank, which offers banking services from post offices.
Still, Deutsche Bank continues to rely heavily on its investment banking unit for profit. The unit, called the corporate and investment bank group, is based in London and reported a pretax profit of 2.56 billion euros in the first quarter. That amounted to about 85 percent of Deutsche Bank's total pretax profit.
Deutsche Bank also belongs to a small circle of global banks that account for a huge proportion of international derivatives trading, prompting the European Commission to investigate the institutions for possible domination of the market for credit default swaps, an instrument used to insure debt.
MR. ACKERMANN seems such a fixture that it is hard to imagine Germany without him. He has already served almost as long as Hermann J. Abs, who led Deutsche Bank back to international prominence in the 1950s and 1960s, when Germany was rebuilding after World War II.
Mr. Ackermann's contract has already been extended once, until 2013, and he vows that he won't stay on beyond then. Already, there is fevered speculation about who may replace him.
Anshu Jain, the head of Deutsche Bank's investment banking unit, is often mentioned. But Mr. Jain, who grew up in India, is not fluent in German and would be hard-pressed to take over the political obligations that come with the job of running Deutsche Bank.
Under one scenario, Mr. Jain would share top duties with Axel Weber, the former president of the German Bundesbank, who would handle interaction with government and central banks.
Mr. Ackermann says the decision on who will replace him lies with Deutsche Bank's supervisory board. But, like so many things in European finance, he will no doubt play a role in choosing his replacement. ''It is not my job,'' he says, but ''I am, of course, involved.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Josef Ackermann, Deutsche Bank's chief, has acquired huge influence over E.U. finances. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROLAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(BU1)
 Josef Ackermann last month at the Deutsche Bank shareholders' meeting, where he received much applause -- and a few boos. He said the bank had enhanced its reputation in the last few years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HANNELORE FOERSTER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(BU4) GRAPHICS: German Exposure: Banks in Germany hold a considerable amount of Greek sovereign debt, according to recent reports from Fitch Ratings and the Bank for International Settlements. Any default by Greece could cut into the capital the banks set aside for safety. Fitch says the banks would likely withstand that kind of event, but Josef Ackermann at Deutsche Bank, among others, warns that such a move could set off a banking crisis. (Source: Fitch Ratings)(BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); BONDS (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); EXECUTIVES (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (59%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (91%); DBK (FRA) (91%); DBK (BIT) (91%); DBETN (JSE) (91%); DBA (ASX) (91%); DB (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: JOSEF ACKERMANN (93%); ANGELA MERKEL (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (94%); GREECE (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



461 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: The Economy and Washington: Renewed weakness reflects deep, and urgent, problems

 BODY:
The recent deluge of weak economic data has led to a guessing game among analysts. Is the weakness temporary? Or is there more bad news to come?
Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, weighed in last week, saying that growth will recover later in the year as gas prices fall and the effects of the Japanese tsunami fade. That is the too-easy answer. 
Oil prices are a wild card, and the impact of other setbacks is probably overstated. If disruptions from the Japanese supply chain were a big force behind weak job numbers in May, for instance, work hours would likely have been cut back. But hours held steady, while job growth slowed broadly. That indicates general weakness.
Even if temporary setbacks were to blame, the economy's inability to take hits without backsliding is a sign of underlying fragility. So the important question is not the extent to which temporary problems are in play, but whether the economy will improve steadily as those problems work themselves out.
Unfortunately, it seems more likely to stagnate. Private-sector job growth, such as it is, will be undercut by continuing mass layoffs of public employees. Foreclosures, driven by joblessness and falling home prices, are expected to further depress property values. These factors -- along with a faltering stock market -- will constrain consumer spending. So it is folly to believe that the economy is ready to stand on its own, if not for passing setbacks. And yet that is the view from Washington.
Federal support for the economy is ending. The stimulus from 2009 is all but spent, while the payroll tax cut and extended federal jobless benefits from 2010 are set to expire at year's end. Foreclosure relief is paltry. The Federal Reserve bond buying program, which has buoyed the stock market, is scheduled to end this month.
In addition, Republican lawmakers are demanding immediate spending cuts as a condition for raising the debt limit, and the White House is likely to accede. Deep reductions would further damage the economy.
Mr. Bernanke warned of the danger in sharp near-term budget cuts and proposed a sound alternative: avoiding big cuts now in favor of enacting a credible plan for deficit reduction to be rolled out gradually.
Of course, doing no harm will not be enough. The economy needs help, like direct federal job creation and options for homeowners to reduce the principal on troubled loans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); HOMEOWNERS (71%); TSUNAMIS (71%); FORECLOSURE (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (64%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



462 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 6443 words

HEADLINE: You Blow My Mind. Hey, Mickey!

BYLINE: By JOHN JEREMIAH SULLIVAN

 BODY:
Something you learn rearing kids in this young millennium is that the word ''Disney'' works as a verb. As in, ''Do you Disney?'' Or, ''Are we Disneying this year?'' Technically a person could use the terms in speaking about the original Disneyland, in California, but this would be an anomalous usage. One goes to Disneyland and has a great time there, probably -- I've never been -- but one Disneys at the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida. There's an implication of surrender to something enormous. 
One night my wife, M. J., said I should prepare to Disney. It wasn't presented as a question or even as something to waste time thinking about, just to brace for, because it was happening. We have some old friends, Trevor and Shell (short for Michelle), and they have a girl, Flora, 5, who is only a year older than our daughter, Mimi. The girls grew up thinking of each other as cousins and get along beautifully. Shell and Trevor also have a younger son, Lil' Dog. He possesses a real, dignified-sounding name, but his grandparents are the only people I've ever heard call him that. All his life he has been Lil' Dog. The nickname didn't come about in any special way. There's no story attached. It was as if, at the moment of birth, the boy himself spoke and chose this moniker. When you look at him, something in him makes you want to say, ''Lil' Dog.'' He's a tiny, sandy-haired, muscular guy, with a goofy, lolling grin, who's always about twice as heavy when you pick him up as you thought he was going to be.
Through family, Shell had come into some discount tickets, enough for the seven of us. It seemed not even a day passed between my getting a slight rumble of that news and finding myself at the wheel of the black Honda, headed south-southwest from North Carolina. For events to have actually moved this quickly is not far-fetched. M. J. often springs trips and appointments on me, in some cases literally overnight, knowing that if she removes the time factor, I won't be able to generate bogus neurotic back-out plans. Many of the best vacation memories of my life I owe to these strategies, which prove again a useful principle for all couples: don't try to change each other. Study and subvert each other.
The camper containing Shell, Trevor, Flora and Lil' Dog moved south-southeast from Chattanooga. We were converging like lines on a graphing calculator. Unless you are very, very strong, the time will come when you Disney, and our time had come, unrolling like a glaring scroll in the form of I-95. It was a Saturday. The next day would be Father's Day. This whole voyage, it turned out, was billed as a Father's Day gift to me and Trevor, which in my case was like having been shot with a heavy barbiturate dart and bundled off to your own birthday party. Nonetheless I had little anxiety -- a total lack of options will often produce a strange, free feeling. In the rearview mirror, Mimi practically strained her car-seat buckles with impatience. My highway thoughts passed through a curious phase of gratitude toward Walter Disney, as an individual, for having made possible such an intensity of childhood joy. Maybe Trevor felt the same about his little brood, hundreds of miles away, fewer each minute.
There's something I should mention about Trevor, though I wouldn't if it weren't relevant to much of what came later, but he smokes a stupendous amount of weed. Think of a person who smokes a pack of cigarettes a day, that's 20 cigarettes. Trevor smokes about that many joints, on a heavy day, the first one while he's making coffee. And yet is highly functional in all social and professional senses, or almost all. I've definitely seen him muff some conversations. Still, 90 percent of the time he's one of the sharpest and most interesting people I know. But to repeat: the brother is always, always high. We're not talking about stuff your roommate grew in the side lot, either; this is California high-grade he obtains through a kind of nationwide medical-marijuana co-op, moving the legally obtained stuff out of California and into other states. It works the same as regular weed dealing, apparently, but you're not supporting a criminal network. Except insofar as you are part of a criminal network. It is one of the many contradictions of living at a time when half the country thinks of weed as more innocent than alcohol and the other half thinks of it as a stepping stool to hard drugs. I needled Trevor once for details on his source. He said that, unfortunately, there was one rule: don't tell your friends.
When Trevor and I became tight -- as neighbors, in our early 20s -- I was smoking a bit myself, almost competing with him. But when I hit 30, I backed up off it, as the song says. I never stopped liking the stuff or feeling that it benefited me, for that matter, but the habit was starting to make me dumb, and I was just humble enough by 30, I guess, to realize I hadn't been born with enough cerebral ammunition to go voluntarily squandering any of it. Meanwhile Trevor stayed committed. And when we get together, a couple of times a year, I won't lie, I fall prey to old patterns. Every so often it causes worry in my wife, especially since our daughter came along. Mostly I think she sees it as a useful pressure valve, which keeps me straighter and narrower the rest of the year. (Study, subvert: happiness = winner.)
That night in our suite at the Disney hotel -- not a theme hotel, just your standard luxury resort-dorm -- the kids ran psychotically repetitive figure eights. A small child on Disneying Eve is a thoroughbred before the gates open. I watched my wife and Shell sit talking and laughing at the illuminated laminate kitchenette counter. Shell, who runs a garden center, still looks exactly as she did when we met her, a hippie soccer mom, with pretty German features and long dirty-blond hair, whose face will break from affectlessness into sudden disarming smiles. She had a deep history with Disney, something I hadn't known. She described being brought there as a child, with her sisters, and the way their father, a career military man, rushed them through the park, insisting they go on every ride, maximizing their fun-dollar. At noon they went back to the parking lot, into the van. There they ate prepacked lunches. Then they all napped. ''All five of you?'' All five, mother, father and three girls, in an Econoline. Forty-five minutes of silence. Then back to the park. ''You did this every year?'' They did it twice a year, in spring and fall, knocking down the attractions like obstacles on a high-speed course, never repeating. The detail of the van naps drew me in. I imagined being a child and lying awake when others were sleeping, the strangeness of that silence.
Later, when the children were huddled lumps in various spots on the sofa bed, Trevor and I stood on the balcony. He talked about how challenging it would be the next day, and during the next days and nights, in the park, not being able to smoke. That wasn't high on my list of concerns -- in fact, I was foolish enough to think that the fact of Disney, that we would be spending our time in the heavily surveilled park, might banish the very notion of smoking weed, easing Trevor's miniwithdrawals and making my life easier, too, in that I wouldn't spend too much time stoned, only a few puffs at night like this, it would be a nonissue in terms of domestic harmony. Trevor wasn't trying to hear that at all. He was definitely stressed. ''I'm gonna lose my mind in there,'' he said. ''Have you ever been in there?''
I had once, when I was 11. I didn't remember much. It bounced off.
''Well, we go every year,'' Trevor said. ''And every year I feel like my skull's about to split open.''
''I always figured you were doing brownies,'' I said.
''I do do brownies,'' he said. ''I have brownies. But, you know. . . .''
I did. Edibles are good, and wise heads move toward them over time, to save their lungs, but there's something about the combination of oxygen-deprivation and intense THC-flush that comes with smoking and in particular from smoking joints. There's no real substitute, for the abuser. A brownie can alter your mood over hours, but a joint swings a psychic broom around you -- it clears an instant space.
''I actually saw this thing on the Internet,'' Trevor said, ''where people were talking about getting high in the park.''
''At Disney World!'' I said, as if I hadn't been listening.
He led me back inside and quietly cracked open his laptop on the kitchen counter. ''Check this out,'' he whispered. Only the two of us were awake.
I dropped into one of the swivel stools in front of the bright screen. I was reading before I knew what I was reading, but it was like a chat room. Or a forum. ''Forum'' is the better term. A motif of cannabis leaves and naked women holding glittery buds ran down the left margin: a pothead forum. Trevor scrolled it down to a posting, the subject of which read, ''Re: Hello from Disney World.''
An anonymous person, evidently the veteran of a staggering number of weed-smoking experiences in the park, had done a solid for the community and laid out his or her knowledge in a systematic way. It was nothing less than a fiend's guide to Disney World. It pinpointed the safest places for burning the proverbial rope, telling what in particular to watch for at each spot. Isolated footpaths that didn't see much traffic, conventional smoking areas with good hedge cover, places where you could hide under a bridge by a little artificial river -- those were its points of interest. The number of views suggested that the list had helped a lot of desperate people.
The main point was clear and consistent: ''Be ready to book it.''
Next morning I seized the long plastic rods and parted the curtains: rain! Oh, well. We would have to stay in and read.
M. J. laughed at me. ''Good luck telling that to Shell,'' she said. During the previous night's pre-Disney planning, it had come out that our friend inherited more of her father's attitude toward the park than we had imagined. She was ready to rock, packing up gear and squinting at me as predicted when I mentioned the weather, making an ''are you serious?'' face.
''Did you bring ponchos?'' she asked.
When I replied that we didn't own any ponchos -- we had an umbrella -- she said, ''We can buy some extras on the way.''
Trevor winked from the door of their bedroom, where he was dressing Lil' Dog. All will be well, bro. He made the rolling sign, pinching his fingers together.
Both families fit into the camper, and so we just took that. But by the time we lurched into our appointed spot in one of the moonscape Disney World lots, gestured toward it by a series of old men, all showing the same drunk-on-power stone-facedness, it was raining too hard to get out of the vehicle. Even Shell would have to wait. She looked fidgety, sitting in her damp poncho and staring less through than at the steam-blind windows, while the Backyardigans played.
I was thinking about my late father. I don't know why. He would never have brought us here. Could never. My father could not have Disneyed. It requires something, not willpower, exactly, but willingness. You can't smoke cigarettes in those long lines. That would have driven him mad. The strain of pretending to have fun for many hours would have exasperated him; his irritability would then have soured the day. In the end he would try to redeem it all with gross jokes, and we kids would laugh, not able to help it. My mother would rightfully resent the cheap-bought victory, leading to tension at dinner, followed by TV.
Which isn't to say that we never had fun, or even that we never had fun in Florida, it was just that you had to do it my father's way. Not Disney World, not even SeaWorld -- Ocean World, in Fort Lauderdale, that was his style. A now-defunct marine park where you could pet and feed the dolphins yourself, as long as you were O.K. with the skin condition half of them had developed from overchlorinated water. Ocean World had monkeys and gators, too (the ocean is wide). My father, who wrote about baseball, was down there covering spring training, I don't even remember which team. We met up with him for a week, stayed in a motel, where we may have been the only people not paying by the hour or month. He somehow managed to rent a car that you hadn't been able to buy in 10 years, a gigantic late-1970s white Ford LTD. We looked like complete trash on that trip, I realize now, and I had such an excellent time. Dad had his Pabst and pork rinds and menthols, what could go wrong? I was thinking about how his eccentricity, for all its problems, not least of which was that it had killed him, also had opened a space in my childhood that was one of the few places where I could relax. Maybe Mimi would have similar luck with me. It seems like a lot of what you end up doing as a parent is trying to figure out ways to save your children from you.
The rain let up as abruptly as if someone had snapped shut a dome overhead. We climbed out onto the wet pavement, under a changeable sky that, not 10 minutes after the rain, let through intense heat. Others around us similarly unstrapped themselves and stretched. We were an army of insects uncoiling. We started assembling the gear. Shell had brought a double-stroller. At any given time, two kids would be riding, with the third walking or on somebody's shoulders.
No sooner had we pressed our fingers onto the biometric scan-pads (because if you can't trust Disney with your biological data . . .), than old Trevor began to show signs. He hadn't been able to smoke that morning (quarters too cramped); he was craving. Not that he acted jumpy or cranky. I could just tell from the body language and sentence length that it was on his mind. Nothing like an enclosed space -- and Disney World, for all its gigantism, manages never to let you forget for a second that you're in a very tightly enclosed space -- to make a head start scanning for exits.
Lil' Dog and the ladies were sailing by up above on the Dumbo ride, in three successive elephants. Mimi had a tentatively happy face. It said, ''I'm ready to think of this as fun, as long as it doesn't go any faster or higher.'' Trevor and I leaned on the railing like bettors at a track, smiling and waving every time they went past, as if we were dolls with arms hooked to wires. Trevor had his phone out, with the Internet dialed up to ''the guide.'' He consulted it when they were on the dark side of their orbit. Checking it against a map of the park, we determined that one of the spots mentioned wasn't too far away, a little-used maintenance pathway with trees alongside it and some Dumpsters. Given a properly positioned lookout, you could have a puff in relative calm. We slipped away.
Now we were truly at Disney World. A person didn't come here every day! What is the scene here? Hello, primary colors; hello, quickly fading microdramas of passing human faces, incessantly deciding whether to make eye contact; hello, repeating stalls and gift shops. We were walking on the balls of our feet. The surface of things had become porous and permitted of the potential for enjoyment. Where were our womenfolk and Lil' Dog? Let's find them. Let's be good fathers. Tomorrow was Father's Day. Oh, my God, I didn't even remember that!
''We don't need to remember that,'' Trevor said. ''We are that.''
''We are Father's Day?''
As if to put an exclamation point on his observation, I stopped and bought, for some obscene amount of money, two blue plastic sprayer fans. You've seen these? It's a spray bottle, like you would use to spray water on your plants, but it had a little fan attached to the nozzle. The idea is you fan yourself and spray yourself at the same time. Trevor and I went ahead and started using them, while we searched for our people. The fan did nothing; the fan and spraying did have a cooling effect, but it was cruelly brief, like the relief of ice on a toothache. It was so hot by this time -- about noon -- that the heat from the pavement seemed to be microwaving our cells. To really get any help from the fan, you had to just walk along constantly misting and spritzing yourself, which seemed like something only a crazy or famous person would do. We finally just slung the sprayer-fans over our shoulders by their carrying straps and walked on.
Next memory: riding on the mechanical boat through the It's a Small World attraction, continually spraying Mimi, who looked as if she had been boiled in a tank, her cheeks were so red and her little forehead was glowing. The whole time I was spraying, she was waving at the dolls, acknowledging every single doll's wave with her own; showing an O.C.D.-like desire not to miss anyone. It seemed that she misunderstood the nature of the dynamic, believed we ourselves were part of some parade, being observed by the dolls. A more natural idea, I suppose. Why would you go floating by in a boat to look at children standing along the banks of a river; they would be looking at you. Because you are a princess. Flora was angry because Lil' Dog hogged their family's sprayer, and was just sitting there spray-fanning himself, right in the face, and by the end of the ride, he had squirted all the water away. ''Son,'' Trevor said.
Next memory: suddenly being able to hear, for the first time, the Irishness of Disney's name, hearing it spoken aloud in my head with the thick Kilkenny accent of his own great-grandfather, Arundel Disney, with a sharp uptake on the last syllable. And being able to understand the essentially tragic nature of his charlatanism a little better.
It was a double hallucination: you were hallucinating inside of Walter Disney's hallucination. That's what he wanted.
That night in bed, my wife, who's an academic -- she's interested in the transnational flow of entertainment capital and things like that -- read to me from a book she brought along, ''Married to the Mouse,'' by the political scientist Richard E. Foglesong. It's about Disney and Florida, which turns out to be a much more engaging story than I knew or than you might expect.
In order to understand what happened here, you have to know of Walt Disney's disappointment over Disneyland, not with the park itself but with the built environment right around the park, which boomed, to accommodate the tourist trade, and sprouted seedy hotels, garish advertisements, vistas of the wrong sorts of people. Disney was heartsick over it -- he, who was so visually meticulous that he used to lurk in the various animal centers and zoological gardens of Los Angeles shooting footage of little creatures, trying to ensure his animators got the musculature and locomotion right. How was he supposed to fashion a flawless dream environment, with urban blight as the backdrop? How could he open, in the words of Bob Hope, ''an escape from our aspirin existence into a land of sparkles and lights and rainbows''? For that, he needed control over the entire context of the park. Not a land, in other words, but a world. Virgin: that was the word he used in a 1967 promotional film, made right before he died. Walt Disney died dreaming about Disney World; it's said that while lying on his back, in his hospital room, he turned the tiles on the ceiling into a map of his precious ''Florida project.''
The way Walt went about getting his way was crafty and made for good listening. He wanted to buy more than 40 square miles of contiguous private property in central Florida. It wasn't virgin, by a long shot -- Central Florida, after all, is where America's sins begin -- but it was depopulated. Yet Disney knew that if word were to leak about Walter Disney buying real estate, local prices would soar, the overall cost become unmanageable. So he created shell companies, with improvised names, and through them acquired the acres in jigsaw parcels. The landowners didn't realize just one person was buying everyone's property until a local journalist figured it out, and Disney was forced to hold a press conference. You heard right, folks! It was me.
From one point of view, the state had deliberately deceived its citizens in order to help a corporation seize a massive chunk of its territory; from another, they were safeguarding a deal that would do more for Florida's economy than anything since oranges. People still argue over how smart a deal it was. Disney World has made a lot of money, but it's not clear whether Florida has received a fair share. A lot of this has to do with unique and highly irregular tax arrangements Disney was able to arrange (or demand, to use the term Walt's brother Roy accidentally let slip at that first press conference). These have only increased over the years. Today there's even a sort of ''Disney visa,'' negotiated between the corporation and the U.S. government, in order to make it possible for Disney to fill its foreign-accent needs at Epcot.
Where it got interesting was that, in order to gain these extraordinary powers, Disney had to deceive the government of Florida at the same time the two were colluding in all sorts of other ways. It gets very complex and legalistic but comes down to this: Disney pitched Disney World to Florida not as a resort but as a real city. You've heard of Epcot (the Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow). If you're a Disney freak, you may know that it was originally supposed to possess more of a utopian-futuristic vibe, not be just primarily an around-the-world-in-a-day-type tour, as it became. Fewer people are aware, however, that Epcot was supposed to be a working utopia, a ''living blueprint,'' as Disney vividly calls it in that film, during which he stands before wall-size diagrams of geometric urban plans, pictures that could have come from the 21st century or the French Revolution. Twenty thousand people would live there, in this bubble-domed community, ''completely enclosed . . . climate controlled . . . shoppers and theatergoers . . . protected day and night from rain, heat and cold, and humidity . . . the pedestrian will be king . . . only electric-powered vehicles will travel above the streets.'' Disney would solicit the major industrial giants to design and test bold new technologies for Epcot, ''finding solutions to the problems of our cities.''
The reality, as Foglesong shows, is that Disney never really meant for people to live permanently at Epcot. In the Disney archives, Foglesong turned up a memo, the Helliwell memo, drafted by one of Disney's lawyers and annotated in the margins by Walt himself, and it makes this point quite plain. Disney crossed out every mention of ''permanent residents.'' The denizens of Epcot would be passing through, longer-term tourists, staying for a few months at the longest. How could Disney have it otherwise? If your town has residents, then those people are citizens of some local government of the United States -- yours. They can vote. They can vote against you. That hardly made sense as part of a corporate development strategy. But without municipality status, Disney wouldn't be able to secure the legislative fief it ended up getting, with ludicrous tax advantages, unprecedented oversight of land and water usage, of building codes, etc. For that you needed inhabitants. So Disney fibbed and said he wanted them. Foglesong's point is that these maneuvers leave Disney World in an ambiguous category of legitimacy. It receives the breaks that an autonomous political settlement would have enjoyed (and then some), but it never has had any settlers. Strictly speaking Disney World shouldn't exist.
When you know all this, the promotional film becomes unsettling to watch. I prefer to keep my Disney-as-enemy-of-democracy thoughts at a comfortable left-theoretical distance. Disney was selling not utopia but a perversion of classic utopian aims. There would be no private property, sure, no ownership (again, if people owned land, they would have to be given the vote), but instead of substituting the commons for individual plots, as social planners had struggled to do for centuries, the Epcotians would be made renters. Tenants (just as the residents of Celebration, Fla., Disney's planned community, are today). The tall, architecturally innovative office buildings downtown? Those would be ''designed especially to suit the local and regional needs of major corporations.'' And all on the soil where the very first North American utopias, the forgotten Franciscan missions of Spanish Florida, had been destroyed, when the South Carolina colonists burned them at the start of the 18th century, murdering their priests and enslaving their Native American populations. The Disney developers had to clear orange groves left over from those missions. Such is the virginity of the New World.
Mimi had a black eye the next morning, a real shiner. It was incurred the night before in a swimming-pool accident. Flora tried to throw her a plastic boat. It sort of caught an air current and scudded like a glider for a second. Hit Mimi straight in the face, prow first. There were tears from both girls, a little blood from mine. Lil' Dog looked confused, mounted mermanlike on his inflatable alligator. We adults went through that ritual of overreassuring one another that everything was O.K., no hard feelings, not deliberate. Still, it looked awful -- definite maybe on the crucial permanent-scar question.
I was downhearted the next morning to find that Mimi's injury hadn't dampened her enthusiasm for Disney. Just as 24 hours before I placed hope in the foul weather, so I reinvested it in the prospect of staying in and holding an ice bag to her face. We would read. I could read her my big-people book aloud, no problem. But now M. J. was waking me up and telling me to get dressed and ready.
I wandered out into the little TV room. Shell was there packing and had on her battle face. I must have had a look on mine something like Lil' Dog's from the night before. ''We're going back?'' Why? We were there yesterday! And I hadn't exactly come away from that with a sense of failing to take full advantage of the park's opportunities.
Trevor and I had wound up pulling our lookout act twice more. ''Just remember,'' he kept saying under his breath, ''be ready to book it.'' As if you could ever successfully run away at Disney World, with the cameras everywhere and the underground tunnels and the private police force. Run to where?
The tunnels aren't really ''underground.'' I heard this explained in a documentary about Disney World. The tunnels represent ground level. Everything else is built on top. Disney World is a giant mound, one of the greatest ever constructed in North America. When you're walking around in the park, you're about 15 feet above where construction began.
An importance of these tunnels for Disney was that he could keep the costumed characters invisible, when they weren't ''on.'' He didn't ever want the children to see Pluto, for instance, slouching back from his shift to a break room. So at Disney World, the characters pop up where they're needed, then disappear.
It's the same with the park, on a grand scale -- as you're moving between the separate parks-within-a-park (Magic Kingdom, Typhoon Lagoon, Epcot, etc.), you're passing through huge waste spaces in between, but they are Disney's waste spaces, manicured emptiness. These voids were in some ways more important to Disney than any attraction in the park. The screen had to be white.
Once again a day of equatorial heat that all but exerted a physical weight. The shoulder skin of the tank-top-wearing men around us roiled ultravioletly, in a precancerous way. It took a lot of psychic reserve to steel your soul for these long days of amusement. We weren't even out of the parking lot before the three kids were squabbling over who got to ride in the double stroller. In the end, the girls won. Mimi and Flora sat side by side, twin maiden prow of our straggly land vessel, their faces proudly forward, mist-spritzing themselves as they rode. Mimi with her purple eye. I somehow ended up carrying Lil' Dog. That was a lot of steps for his tiny legs across the desert of heat-mirage. There is something unnatural or I should say unearthly about Lil' Dog's weight, or his density. It was like carrying a meteorite. To carry both girls would have been easier.
No sooner did we enter Epcot than Trevor started checking his phone, and while I won't bore you with more detail about that business, there being no tediousness quite like doper tediousness, suffice it to say that the rest of the day was spent on pendulum bouts of ecstatic, hyper-attentive parenting followed by separation from family to indulge addiction and vice.
Ready as one may be to don the hair shirt, it was hard not to feel that this was the perfect way to do the park. I wasn't as prone to feel surly toward the late-empire brittleness of it all. I stopped trying to remember which companies Disney owns or co-owns: ESPN, Marvel and was it ABC or CBS? What gigantic swaths of our visual environment is this corporation shaping every bit as meticulously as it did those parks?
I took Mimi on a little roller coaster ride (with maternal urging; I hadn't gone rogue -- she wanted to go). But pobrecita, it turned out she wasn't ready for it. The ride was small but still moved pretty fast. As soon as we started up, she put her head down. She never screamed, ''Make it stop!'' or anything. She just grabbed onto the hold-bar in front of her, put her head down so that her face was almost in her lap, and as we zoomed around the turns, kept repeating ''oh, my goodness'' like a charm. Two minutes later, it was over. She pronounced it, ''A lot scary, but a little bit fun.'' The child has such nobility of soul! She reminds me of my mother, both in the nobility and in the occasional comedy of its display; for example, once in St. Augustine, Fla., when we were all eating pizza in a place downtown, and there was a stabbing outside. My mother grabbed Mimi and held her like they were about to run through a fire. ''I'm getting you out of here, little girl,'' she said. I have always thought that if the secret police ever come asking for me -- as they may come from Disney, after the publication of this article -- I would much rather have the women in my life answer the door than any of the men I know.
We were watching the people. That's what you do at Disney World, mostly. Above and beyond all else, it's a place where people look at other people (the lines and the endless walking and the crowded feed stations) to reaffirm the fact that we are there together, that the value of the place is such, it has been worth traveling to from all over the world. I couldn't tell what we made of one another, in the looking. When Disney World was built, it embodied a shared idea of America as pure capitalist fantasy. It's no longer communicating that idea; the idea is no longer intelligible. I don't know what it's communicating. The old virtues are gone, the new ones unidentifiable.
And yet no matter where you travel in the world, you run into a startling number of people for whom Orlando is America. If you could draw one of those New Yorker cartoon maps in your head, of the way the world sees North America, the turrets of the Magic Kingdom would be a full order of scale bigger than anything else, than the Empire State Building for instance. Just this year it was announced that Orlando had become the first U.S. tourist destination to attract 50 million visitors in one year. The environmental impact of this human traffic must be phenomenal. I've met English people, Germans, Latin American people. Have you ever been to the United States? you ask them. ''I've been to Orlando,'' they say.
When I taught for a year at a school in Lima, Peru, there was no greater hero among the students than the kid who had just returned from Orlando. They didn't want to hear about California or New York. I had one student, called Lucho. He came back from his trip with a thick stack of photos, in one of those paper wallets. He wanted to pass them around. And kill 30 minutes of class? Ah, you twisted my arm, Lucho. Unfortunately the pictures were entirely of women's bottoms. It wasn't ''nice'' or shapely bottoms that Lucho had been after, but gigantically obese ones. They've never seen people who look like us, most places in the world. I confiscated the pictures and stood red-faced, flip-booking through them in front of the class. Shot after zoomed shot of enormous, complexly dimpled bottoms shrink-wrapped into the most outrageously tight and revealing spandex. Young Lucho had found enough of these to fire through an entire roll. It was hard to come down on a student who showed such thoroughness of observation. I thought about him every time I saw one of these Americans go pounding by.
There is deep yearning at Disney. What you feel when you're in the state we were in and all of your emotional pores are wide open is yearning. There is something at stake here, for the families, in terms of that knife edge between joy and disappointment. So when you see people whose kids are definitely not having fun, but are standing in place and screaming, having to be dragged along by their leash-harnesses, there's a throb of empathetic sadness. They are not having a good Disney.
I looked at Mimi. Was she having fun? I thought so -- she was smiling. But I knew there were times in my own childhood when I must have seemed to my parents like I was having a blast, while being inwardly tormented by some irrational worry. Ah, youth! How many of my genes had she inherited, and could I teach her how to play them better? You want joy for your children, but you yourself have brought them into this world of suffering.
Lunch was served by princesses. Or rather our table was visited by princesses. I suppose, pseudo-historically speaking, our waitresses, in Scandinavian folk dress, were meant to be the servants or the vassals' daughters of the princesses, village girls from olden times. I ordered meatballs and beer. Our whole section of the restaurant was paying attention to Lil' Dog, because he had fallen asleep in a hilarious way, ramrod straight in his chair, with even his head straight but eyes closed and mouth open. It just looked bizarre, like he was in a permanent coma but ''we bring him along anyway.'' Even when we woke him, he couldn't focus or eat his food.
Sleeping Beauty came out from backstage. The girls pulled out their Disney Princesses autograph books. That's what their mothers bought them while we were off buying sprayer-fans that it later turned out were giving everyone facial sunburns.
Sleeping Beauty was down on one knee, signing her name in a huge stylized cursive that I imagined her practicing before an employee test. Mimi shook with something beyond excitement, into spasm.
''Say 'thank you' to the princess.''
Later I was by myself, I don't recall precisely why, but the others had gone, and I was sitting on a bench. I had kind of checked out, I guess. At the other end of the bench was a large family, large in number and size. The girl, who looked about 14, was in a high-tech wheelchair and severely disabled. She started grunting: she was having a seizure. When it ended, I sat there and listened to the family have an argument about whether they should go back to the hotel and deal with the medical situation or stay and fun on, since the seizure was over, might as well. In fairness, the girl herself wanted to stay. The park would be open for only another couple of hours. Maybe they had been dreaming of coming here for years.
That wasn't even the last day. There were more. It was hard to believe, but this is what you do, you submit, otherwise you're a jerk. Shell was relentless, and everybody else was on her side, including Trevor, who had used me, I now realized, as a rent-an-enabler. Forced to come here every year or so, he made it more tolerable for himself by bringing me in. No shame in that, but he might have warned me what it involved. There was a day we went to a place called Typhoon Lagoon, a water park that's part of the Disney World complex. Huge slides dropped you almost into a free fall. A whole lot of fairly disgusting pale bodies, my own among them, pressed together on those stairs. All the females and Lil' Dog sat at the bottom, to watch me and Trevor come down. I did have one thought on the way down, a pot thought but a true one maybe. There's usually one thought, from any binge, that will seem true even afterward, and sometimes for the rest of your life, and it was this, that if there's no free will, as I more and more doubt there to be, we don't need to go crazy with guilt and worry about our children. We're not responsible for them. For their upbringing, yes, but not for their existence. Destiny wants them here. It uses us to put them here.
The strangest thing that happened was the very last thing that happened. As we were leaving the park, on the evening of the last day, it began to rain a monsoonlike rain. You'll have to believe me when I say it was exceptionally violent. The next morning I said to one of the bellboys at the hotel, ''You guys probably get weather like that a lot, huh?'' He said, ''No, we don't.'' It was as if a black spaceship had swooped down and blocked out the sun. Sheets of wind were tearing through. Lightning continually exploded just above our heads. The tram-caravan kept having to stop, which made it only scarier, as if they had driven us out into the open in some sacrificial way, as target practice for an offended storm god. Also it was disturbing to see the clockwork perfection of the Disney machine threatened that way. It hinted at a larger underlying weakening of something. The tram we were riding in was open on the sides and covered above only by a plastic canopy. We were exposed and getting blasted. But we had the Disney ponchos. Shell had made us all buy them -- at a gas station, so possibly they were knockoffs. But they worked, and by sitting close together with all of them spread, we could make a tent. It must have looked very weird. On the other hand I'm positive that every other person on the tram wished they were under it with us, and I'm pretty sure at one point we did have some other people's kids. Underneath, in the dark, the children were loving it. Mimi and Flora screamed in terror every time the thunder boomed, but their terror was full of joy, and afterward there was laughter. And it was wonderful to be able to cover them. We had the solution for this, barring a direct strike.
Later, when asked, Lil' Dog said that this had been his favorite ride.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cinderella Castle at Disney World in Florida. (MM27)
The audience at a show featuring Disney characters. (MM28)
 Spectators at the daily light show at Cinderella Castle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOACHIM LADEFOGED FOR THE NEW YORK) (MM32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); RESORTS (73%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (91%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (91%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



463 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Reports Cyberattack Led to 'Very Major Breach'

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JOHN MARKOFF; David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and John Markoff from San Francisco.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund, still struggling to find a new leader after the arrest of its managing director last month in New York, was hit recently by what computer experts describe as a large and sophisticated cyberattack whose dimensions are still unknown.
The fund, which manages financial crises around the world and is the repository of highly confidential information about the fiscal condition of many nations, told its staff and its board of directors about the attack on Wednesday. But it did not make a public announcement. 
Several senior officials with knowledge of the attack said it was both sophisticated and serious. ''This was a very major breach,'' said one official, who said that it had occurred over the last several months, even before Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the French politician who ran the fund, was arrested on charges of sexually assaulting a chamber maid in a New York hotel.
Asked about the reports of the computer attack late Friday, a spokesman for the fund, David Hawley, declined to provide details or talk about the scope or nature of the intrusion. ''We are investigating an incident, and the fund is fully functional,'' he said.
Because the fund has been at the center of economic bailout programs for Portugal, Greece and Ireland -- and possesses sensitive data on other countries that may be on the brink of crisis -- its database contains potentially market-moving information. It also includes communications with national leaders as they negotiate, often behind the scenes, on the terms of international bailouts. Those agreements are, in the words of one fund official, ''political dynamite in many countries.'' It was unclear what information the attackers were able to access.
The concern about the attack was so significant that the World Bank, an international agency focused on economic development, whose headquarters is across the street from the I.M.F. in downtown Washington, cut the computer link that allows the two institutions to share information.
A World Bank spokesman said the step had been taken out of ''an abundance of caution'' until the severity and nature of the cyberattack on the I.M.F. is understood. That link enables the two institutions to share nonpublic data and conduct meetings, but users of the system say that it does not permit access to confidential financial data.
Companies and public institutions are often hesitant to describe publicly the nature or success of attacks on their computer systems, partly for fear of providing information that would be useful to the individuals or countries mounting the efforts. Even so, Google has recently been aggressive in announcing attacks and, in one recent case, of declaring that its origin was China, an accusation the Chinese government quickly denied.
But in the case of the I.M.F., officials declined to say where they believe the attack originated -- a delicate subject because most nations are members of the fund.
The attacks were likely to have been made possible by a technique known as ''spear phishing,'' in which an individual is fooled into clicking on a malicious Web link or running a program that allows open access to the recipient's network. It is also possible that the attack was less specific, a case in which an intruder was testing the system merely to see what was available.
The fund said that it did not believe that the intrusion into its systems was related to a sophisticated digital break-in at RSA Security that took place in March, which compromised some information that companies and governments use to control access to their most sensitive computer systems. RSA notified its clients of the loss of its data, and last month hackers attempted to use the information stolen from RSA to gain access to computers and networks at the Lockheed Martin Corporation, the nation's largest military contractor.
After that attack, the World Bank briefly shut down external access to its most sensitive systems, for fear that the stolen information could make it a target. But it quickly resumed its normal operations and says it has seen no evidence of any attacks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); ARRESTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); COMPUTER CRIME (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



464 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (CBS) THE 65TH ANNUAL TONY AWARDS Neil Patrick Harris, right, always a boost for awards-show ratings, sings and dances his way through the role of host for this ceremony honoring excellence on Broadway, to be broadcast live from the Beacon Theater in Manhattan. Performers include the casts of the nominees for best musical and best musical revival -- ''Anything Goes,'' ''Catch Me if You Can,'' ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying,'' ''Sister Act,'' ''The Book of Mormon'' and ''The Scottsboro Boys'' -- as well as ''Memphis,'' ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark,'' ''Ghetto Klown'' and ''Priscilla Queen of the Desert.'' The cast of the New York Philharmonic's production of ''Company,'' including Stephen Colbert, Jon Cryer, Christina Hendricks, Patti LuPone, Martha Plimpton and Anika Noni Rose, will also reassemble. Among the presenters are Matthew Broderick, Harry Connick Jr., Viola Davis, Joel Grey, Whoopi Goldberg, Kelsey Grammer, Samuel L. Jackson, James Earl Jones and Robin Williams.
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Chris Wallace interviews the 2012 Republican presidential candidate Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota. 
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION The topics: Jobs and the economy, changes in Medicare and the latest on the budget negotiations. The guests: Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland, and Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the Democratic National Committee chairwoman, and Reince Priebus, the Republican National Committee chairman, debate issues of the 2012 election campaign. The ''Meet the Candidates'' series continues with Rick Santorum, a former Republican senator from Pennsylvania.
7:30 P.M. (FMC) LIFE AFTER FILM SCHOOL Mark Waters, the director of ''Mr. Popper's Penguins,'' which opens on Friday, discusses some of the challenges of working with live penguins and that funny bird Jim Carrey.
8 P.M. (Oxygen) THE GLEE PROJECT: THE FINAL 12 Ryan Murphy, the creator of Fox's ''Glee,'' is the mastermind behind this reality series in which young performers will train and compete for a guest role on ''Glee.'' The 12 finalists are introduced in a casting episode before they are challenged to put their own spin on Katy Perry's ''Firework'' in the first competition episode at 9.
8 P.M. (Fox News Channel) THE MONEY HOLE John Stossel examines the national debt crisis with the help of guests including Luis Fortuno, the governor of Puerto Rico.
9 P.M. (WE) BRIDEZILLAS They're back, and more terrifying than ever. A new season of soon-to-be-brides behaving badly begins with the cases of Erica, who bullies her bridesmaids, refuses to pay the church and goes ballistic on her wedding day; and Krystal, who merely gets into a fight at her bachelorette party. ''Amsale Girls,'' a new series at 10, ventures into the Amsale bridal salon in Manhattan, home of a legendary sales force and $75,000 gowns.
9 P.M. (OWN) FINDING SARAH In this new reality series, Sarah Ferguson, right, the beleaguered Duchess of York, tries to figure out how to patch up her life, with help from Dr. Phil and Suze Orman.
9 P.M. (Animal Planet) SWAMP WARS Got a giant snake in your yard? How about an alligator, a tegu (lizard) or some Africanized bees ? If you're in Miami, chances are you'll call Venom One, a group of firefighters and paramedics with Miami-Dade Fire Rescue, and the holder of the self-proclaimed largest antivenin bank in the world.
10 P.M. (Lifetime) THE PROTECTOR After the Season 5 finale of ''Army Wives'' at 9, Ally Walker plays Gloria Sheppard, a homicide detective with the Los Angeles Police Department and a single mother of two boys, who tries to juggle the personal and professional with the help of her troubled younger brother, Davey (Chris Payne Gilbert).
10 P.M. (E!) KEEPING UP WITH THE KARDASHIANS The clan returns for a sixth season of antics and reality-show branding, with particular attention to Kim's relationship with her fiance, the basketball player Kris Humphries of the New Jersey Nets. Then there's the discovery by Bruce Jenner that his daughter, Kendall, 15, is on birth control pills.
10 P.M. (AMC) THE KILLING Detectives Linden (Mireille Enos) and Holder (Joel Kinnaman) discover that the murdered Rosie was linked to an unusual Web site. Meanwhile, the mayoral campaign of Councilman Richmond (Billy Campbell) gets an unexpected boost. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); RELIGION (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); PUBLIC DEBT (64%); DEBT CRISIS (64%); THEATER (58%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (85%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); JIM CARREY (58%); STENY HOYER (56%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (56%); STEPHEN COLBERT (51%); TIM PAWLENTY (50%); LUIS G FORTUNO (50%); RICK SANTORUM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); PUERTO RICO (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



465 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: When the Wall Went Up

BYLINE: By JACOB HEILBRUNN. 
Jacob Heilbrunn is a frequent contributor to the Book Review.

 BODY:
BERLIN 1961
Kennedy, Khrushchev, and the Most Dangerous Place on Earth
By Frederick Kempe
Illustrated. 579 pp. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $29.95.
On Aug. 13, 1961, Robert H. Lochner drove to the eastern sector of Berlin. A radio director in the city's American sector, Lochner used a hidden tape recorder to capture stories of families who were suddenly trapped in the East by the decision to build the Berlin Wall. Thousands had been fleeing each week, threatening the Communist state's viability. Now Lochner watched as an elderly woman timorously walked up to one of the transport policemen and inquired when the next train was due for West Berlin. He never forgot the officer's contemptuous response: ''That is all over. You are all sitting in a mousetrap now.''
Indeed they were. Moscow's satrapy was unable to create a flourishing economy, relying on loans to keep itself afloat. But the one line of work it did excel at was continually refining its deadly border with the West. Even Berlin's Potsdamer Platz, the bustling epicenter of the Weimar Republic, was converted into a desolate minefield. Not until the Hungarian government opened its border with Austria in May 1989 did the whole rotten edifice collapse and, to general astonishment, one Germany replace two. 
But could the end of the Warsaw Pact have taken place much earlier? Did John F. Kennedy lack the courage to knock down the Berlin Wall? Did he inadvertently prop up the Soviet empire?
These are some of the questions that Frederick Kempe, the president and chief executive of the Atlantic Council, broaches in ''Berlin 1961.'' Kempe, who was for a time The Wall Street Journal's bureau chief in Germany, has performed prodigies of research, consulting American, German and Soviet archives as well as interviewing numerous participants in the Berlin crisis. His reconstruction of the diplomacy and events leading up to August 1961 is spellbinding. But the revisionist conclusions he draws from them are not always as convincing.
Kennedy, by his own admission, made a hash of much of the first year of his presidency. The Bay of Pigs debacle left Khrushchev convinced that Kennedy was a callow stripling whom he could bludgeon at will. The disastrous June 1961 Vienna summit between the two men, where Khrushchev ranted about a possible conflict over Berlin while Kennedy wanly tried to interject, seemed to confirm the tempestuous Soviet prime minister's conviction that his American counterpart could be rolled. ''He savaged me,'' a browbeaten Kennedy confided afterward to the New York Times correspondent James Reston.
Nevertheless, Kennedy had successfully communicated to Khrushchev that he was chiefly interested in preserving American military access routes and protecting West Berlin. It was also the case, as Kempe reports, that Robert F. Kennedy, the attorney general, had established a back channel with the K.G.B. agent Georgi Bolshakov and told him that he and his brother ''sympathized'' with the Soviet ''fear of German revanchists.'' Once the Berlin Wall went up, the president kept mum. But he told his aides, ''It's not a very nice solution, but a wall is a hell of a lot better than a war.''
Kempe chides Kennedy for not doing more, for helping to ''write the script'' for the wall's construction. According to Kempe, ''Kennedy's actions allowed East German leaders to stop just the sort of refugee flow that would be the country's undoing 28 years later.'' He adds, ''Kennedy was not focused on rolling back Communism in Europe.'' Kempe says only by implication what should have been done. He censures Kennedy for opting ''neither to disrupt the border closure . . . nor punish his Communist rivals with sanctions.'' In Kempe's view, Khrushchev's success with Berlin emboldened him to emplace nuclear missiles in Cuba in October 1962. Kempe concludes that Kennedy's facing down of the Soviets over Cuba and his triumphant visit to West Berlin in 1963 represented a U-turn. A ''new Kennedy'' had at last emerged.
But did Kennedy really bungle matters in 1961? Far from appeasing the Communists, Kennedy was simply ratifying longstanding American policy. At the Yalta and Potsdam conferences, the Russians, British and Americans arranged to divide Germany into four zones of occupation. Had Dwight Eisenhower been willing to accelerate the pace of battle in April 1945, he might have been able to reach Berlin before the Red Army. But he had no interest in sacrificing American soldiers for a political objective. So Stalin, at an enormous cost in lives, liberated Berlin.
No American president ever seriously challenged Soviet hegemony in Eastern Europe. Not Eisenhower when revolts took place in East Germany in 1953 and Hungary in 1956. Not Lyndon B. Johnson during the Prague Spring in 1968. Not Ronald Reagan when martial law was declared in Poland in 1981. In Europe, the old principle of Cuius regio, eius religio -- Whose realm, his religion -- prevailed.
The truth is that everyone got something out of the Berlin Wall. West German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer was a Rhinelander who loathed Prussia and was intent on embedding West Germany firmly in NATO and the European Union. The East German leader Walter Ulbricht got his little Communist state. For America, the wall eliminated the risk that a nuclear war would erupt over Berlin.
Real change began to occur only in 1970 when the German chancellor Willy Brandt struck out on a new course of detente with the East and expressed contrition for Nazi crimes. By 1989 a younger generation was in the Kremlin. Much as the Soviet expert George F. Kennan had predicted in 1947, containment led to the ''gradual mellowing'' and peaceful demise of the Communist system. Confronting Moscow in 1961 might well have led to a very different outcome.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); EXECUTIVES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%)

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (99%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) EARTH (73%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); HUNGARY (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%)

TITLE: Berlin 1961: Kennedy, Khrushchev, and the Most Dangerous Place on Earth (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



466 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: An Airlift, Family by Family, Bolsters Cuba's Economy

BYLINE: By VICTORIA BURNETT

 BODY:
HAVANA -- Alejandrina Hernandez packed only light clothes and a makeup bag when she flew here from Miami this spring. As always, she kept her baggage to a minimum.
Her own baggage, that is.
Ms. Hernandez also brought more than 100 pounds of food, clothes and medicine for her family and other Cubans whose relatives in the United States paid her $8 a pound to ferry gifts.
''I need to see my family, but these trips are very expensive,'' said Ms. Hernandez, who has returned eight times to see her husband and mother in the past 18 months. ''This way, I more or less break even.''
Ms. Hernandez is part of a surge in Cuban and Cuban-American visitors from the United States since President Obama lifted travel restrictions in 2009 for those with family here. 
Economists and travel agents estimate that 400,000 passengers will fly to Cuba from the United States this year, nearly four times the number in 2008 -- and more than at any time since the United States cut ties with the island some 50 years ago, they say. The visitors bring cash and huge bundles stuffed with goods that the embargo and Cuba's economic woes have put beyond reach, from basics like milk powder, bouillon cubes and vitamins to luxuries like BlackBerrys and flat-screen televisions. Much of it goes into the living rooms and pantries of relatives, or to retailers who operate Cuba's voracious informal market.
But the money and goods also feed Cuba's budding private sector, the frail backbone of President Raul Castro's plan to reinvigorate the country's feeble economy. Many entrepreneurs say they get capital and supplies from relatives abroad -- colored beads from Miami for religious trinkets, pepper mills for restaurant tables, beautician's wax.
Opponents of greater contact with Cuba say such openings simply help to keep the Castro government afloat. Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican from Florida whose parents are Cuban exiles, has called remittances and travel by Cuban-Americans ''perhaps the single largest source of revenue to the most repressive government in the region.''
A State Department official, who requested anonymity because the policy is politically delicate, said that ''additional people-to-people contact and enhanced economic independence from the state'' helped to ''undermine repression.'' In an e-mail responding to questions, the official said such benefits outweighed concerns about ''the Cuban government profiting indirectly.''
In 2004, President George W. Bush limited family visits to once every three years, reducing them from once a year, but now Cubans and Cuban-Americans may visit relatives as often as they want and send them any amount of money.
The Obama administration also relaxed restrictions on travel by non-Cuban Americans. In March, it expanded the number of airports that can handle direct flights to Cuba, to 11 from 3. And it now allows any American to send Cubans up to $2,000 a year to help private businesses.
Manuel Orozco, an expert at the Inter-American Dialogue, a center for policy analysis, said remittances to Cuba -- estimated at $900 million to $1.4 billion last year -- were important to the small businesses springing up on the island. But he said Cuban expatriates would wait for deeper reforms in Cuba -- or details on the nation's new rules allowing property and car sales -- before they sent larger amounts.
''Nobody in the diaspora is going to invest $10,000 right now,'' he said.
Still, the stream of visitors is fueling Cuba's small but growing consumer culture. And in a country where most people earn about $20 per month in return for social services and subsidies, consumption of any kind is conspicuous.
Arnol Rodriguez, who left Cuba 11 years ago and lives in Rochester, N.Y., sat at a fancy Havana hotel this spring, watching his son and some friends eat pizza and jiggle to reggaeton.
''This is something they could never, ever, afford,'' said Mr. Rodriguez, 49, who spent $200 treating 10 local friends and relatives to a day at the pool. ''I don't care how much it costs me.''
Mr. Rodriguez, on his 14th trip home, said he brought seven suitcases carrying test kits for his diabetic brother, shoes, clothes, chocolate, a PlayStation 2, two hard drives and a DVD player.
Armando Garcia, president of Marazul Charters, which operates daily flights between the United States and Cuba, said Cubans of all kinds were buying tickets. But frequent visitors were mainly those who left in the early 1990s and after, when the hardship of the post-Soviet era led to an exodus.
''This is a generation that is not informed by cold war politics, but by the politics of survival,'' Mr. Orozco said.
Unlike those who left soon after Fidel Castro's 1959 revolution, more recent emigres tend to stay in touch, exchanging jokes and news by text message, telephone or e-mail.
''It is helping destroy the myth of separation'' between islanders and the 1.8-million-strong Cuban community in the United States, said Katrin Hansing, a professor at the City University of New York.
Once on the island, the emigres slip back into their social networks, taking relatives to dinner, going dancing with friends, baptizing their children and getting checkups from doctors in Cuba's health care system. Leonel Morales, 34, who left for Miami three years ago, came back in February for the first time to be inducted into santeria, a religion practiced here. The process would have cost three times as much in Florida, he said.
While in Havana, Mr. Morales also saw a doctor he knew about a chronic stomach complaint. A visit to a doctor in Florida had cost him $7,000.
Ms. Hernandez, who has lived in Florida for six years with her son, tells her husband and friends about her long hours working as a chambermaid, about the perils of mortgages, about the delights of ubiquitous air-conditioning and the Internet.
''Cubans are a bit mistaken about what life is like in America,'' said Ms. Hernandez, 50. ''They don't know how hard it is, how much you have to work. At the same time, you see the fruits of your labor. You come back here and see that everything is falling apart.''
Although she misses her family and the distinctive smell of Cuba's sea, enough to bring tears to her eyes, Ms. Hernandez said she would stay in Florida until her son finished college or her sore joints prevented her from working, shuttling between her trailer in Hialeah and her husband's noisy home in a warren of apartments carved from a once-grand Havana building.
''I have half my heart here and the other half there,'' she said. ''The sad thing is, I am not really happy in either place.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cuban-Americans and Cubans living abroad are a source of goods and cash for their relatives on the island. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE GOITIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); FERRIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); RETAILERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); TRAVEL AGENTS (53%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); MARCO RUBIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



467 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 35A

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: A Lightning Rod on U.T. Board, Regent Is Not Deterred

BYLINE: By REEVE HAMILTON. 
rhamilton@texastribune.org

 BODY:
On Feb. 12, Gene Powell, the chairman of the University of Texas System Board of Regents, sent a note to Francisco G. Cigarroa, chancellor of the U.T. System, about the newest regents appointed by Gov. Rick Perry. The new members ''all have extensive experience in higher education and all of them are hard core conservatives. And none of them are shy. We will see no 'break in' period from these individuals,'' he wrote.
It was an early hint of the changes afoot at the U.T. board and the tense months -- some of the most tumultuous in institutional memory, with the regents seemingly pitted against the flagship university in a highly public spat -- that lay ahead. Of that new crop of board members, none have received more scrutiny than Alex Cranberg.
Sitting in the student center at the University of Texas campus in Austin in early June, Mr. Cranberg, the 56-year-old chairman of Aspect Holdings, a lucrative energy company based in Denver, said the time had come to ''push a reset button'' on the relationship between the regents and the leadership of the university. 
Individuals who encountered Mr. Cranberg as an undergraduate student at U.T. -- he received a degree in petroleum engineering in 1977 -- remember him as a spirited debater who enjoyed challenging others and being challenged in return.
And it may not be what he expected, but he has certainly been challenged lately.
Suspicion has surrounded Mr. Cranberg from Day 1. First, there was the speed with which he became a regent -- one of the most prestigious appointments a governor can bestow upon a Texan. Mr. Cranberg received the nod just two weeks after registering to vote in the state following a move from Colorado for personal reasons.
''Frankly, I've got a lot going on and would not have moved specifically for this job,'' he said.
Then there were his associations. Mr. Cranberg is a longtime friend of Jeff Sandefer, the Austin energy investor who wrote a controversial set of seven proposals for changing higher education and has promoted them with Mr. Perry's aid. ''I don't expect anybody to tell me what to do and have me do it,'' Mr. Cranberg said.
Of all the regents, Mr. Cranberg was the one closest to Rick O'Donnell, a fellow former Coloradoan and an associate of Mr. Sandefer who had publicly questioned the value of academic research. The U.T. System's hiring of Mr. O'Donnell as a special adviser to the board was one of the sparks that lit the statewide controversy. (Mr. O'Donnell's employment was terminated after 49 days, during which he was ''unfairly attacked,'' Mr. Cranberg said.)
At the height of the debate, Mr. Cranberg was widely considered by critics in the Legislature and the academic community to be the ringleader of a bloc of regents who were influenced by Mr. Sandefer and others aiming to, among other things, stage an attack on academic research and coordinate an ouster of U.T.'s president, William Powers Jr. Most recently, after a request for extensive data on all the faculty members in the system, Mr. Cranberg was accused by the same groups of trying to micromanage the universities.
''If I read some of the stuff about me that I read in the paper, I'd be against me,'' said Mr. Cranberg, who denied all the details of what he called a ''caricature.''
When Mr. Cranberg heard that his data request was overwhelming the small staff at the University of Texas-Pan American, he asked the university's president, Robert S. Nelsen, to write a grant proposal for him to personally finance. ''It surprised me very much,'' Mr. Nelsen said. ''It was a very generous offer on his part.''
When asked if other universities shared concerns publicly expressed by many in Austin about the data, Mr. Nelsen said: ''I know my faculty are concerned and my staff are concerned. We're not worried, but we would like a better idea of what the data will be used for.''
Mr. Cranberg said that his grant offer, which ultimately was not accepted, was as symbolic as it was sincere. ''I want to show that I'm willing to share the sacrifice,'' he said. ''I expect it to be symbolically understood that I'm not asking for stuff out of some arrogant desire to be given whatever I want.''
Mr. Cranberg has a long history of investing in causes he cares about. In Colorado, when a school voucher initiative he backed failed, he joined with others to create the Alliance for Choice in Education, a nonprofit group that provides scholarships to schoolchildren. An advocate of expanding pathways to citizenship for immigrants, Mr. Cranberg paid $10,000 to conduct a poll in his Colorado district just to confirm his belief that he was not an anomaly in the Republican Party.
''I've got two kinds of energy,'' he said. ''I've got my own personal energy inside my body, and I've got this stored energy that's called financial resources or cash. I intend to use both up as fully as humanly possible by the time I die.''
Mr. Cranberg, the son of a prominent physicist, grew up in the world of academia, which he said influenced him greatly, as did work toward an M.B.A. from Stanford University. His stint on the Board of Trustees of the Metropolitan State College of Denver, from 2002 to 2007, informs much of his behavior as a regent.
''I saw some things there that I wish I'd done differently, and I don't like to ever look back on something I did and wish I'd done things better,'' he said.
On the Denver board, he said, he learned of the ''critical importance'' of data, especially granular information that one can ''slice and dice'' different ways.
''That's not micromanagement,'' he said. ''That's just good analysis.''
His requests for data are not likely to subside, despite the complaints. He said he intended to ask for detailed data on faculty peer reviews. He anticipates that the request could be ''burdensome,'' but also informative.
Of a controversial, widely publicized study by Richard Vedder, an economist at Ohio University, which used unverified data to allege that U.T. functions inefficiently, Mr. Cranberg called the analysis ''simplistic.''
Still, while the criticisms of the report resonate with him, so do Mr. Vedder's concerns. Mr. Cranberg said he hoped to ''win the hearts and minds'' of those who still had reservations about his intentions as he sought to address those concerns. That the Legislature created a new higher-education oversight committee in response to the continuing controversy might indicate that he has a long way to go.
Mr. Cranberg said he welcomed the new oversight committee, which some conservative bloggers have strongly criticized, and said he believed that most of its members were aligned with his vision.
''I'm the one that's been arguing for transparency,'' he said, ''so why should I argue about going before some legislative committee?''
The most important issue moving forward, Mr. Cranberg said, is which groups will rally together ''post reset'' to embrace the changes that he believes must happen. He added, though, that he and the other regents would not relinquish their responsibilities ''just because they're being critical, especially if they're being critical of something we don't even recognize as our position.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Cranberg Regent, University of Texas System (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB DAEMMRICH/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); ENGINEERING (65%); DISMISSALS (61%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (93%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (70%) TEXAS, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



468 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: The Economy and Washington: Republicans continue their tax-cutting fantasia

 BODY:
High unemployment numbers may be good for Republicans in the next election, which makes it disturbing that Republican leaders have blocked any discussion of stimulus policies that might succeed in putting people back to work. 
In fact, all job-creating proposals that involve spending money are considered verboten among both parties, because Republicans have cowed Democrats with the argument that the 2009 stimulus bill was an irredeemable failure and the deficit is causing unemployment.
If Republicans are as deeply concerned about the 13.9 million out-of-work people as they claim to be, they might have offered ideas of their own that have some possibility of creating jobs. Instead, they have been chanting the same tired and discredited mantras the party has offered since the 1980s: huge tax cuts, huge cuts in safety-net spending, the clear-cutting of regulations, and the inevitable balanced-budget amendment.
The latest example is the chimerical economic plan put forward on Tuesday by Tim Pawlenty, the former Minnesota governor, who at least until this speech was considered one of the more reasonable of the suitors for the Republican presidential nomination. Mr. Pawlenty went much further right in proposing to slash government than even the House Republicans or most of the other candidates. The danger is that the race becomes a Bunyan-esque contest between tax cutters, with the public lulled by the false belief that the current tax rates (already low) are somehow inhibiting hiring.
Mr. Pawlenty proposed getting rid of the capital gains tax -- not cutting it, like Republicans of yore. He would also eliminate the taxes on interest, dividends, and inheritance. Though businesses are flush with cash, he would more than halve their taxes, and cut the top individual rate to 25 percent. This would magically ''unleash the creative energy of America's businesses, families and individuals,'' he said, promising a booming job market and a decade of 5 percent yearly growth.
That is a preposterous target number, beyond the imagination of economists who can barely envision 3 percent growth. It is particularly unimaginable because of the giant deficits the vanishing tax money would create, as the ripples from blown-up government programs washed through state and city economies. Mr. Pawlenty predicts that the growth from lower taxes would wipe out the deficit, an idea discredited since the Reagan years.
The shallowness of his ideas is best illustrated by a proposal to cut government services by finding similar private enterprises on Google. Private security firms advertise on the Internet, so can we shutter the Pentagon? That would save a lot of money right there.
While Republicans are loudly substituting these kinds of ideas for useful policy, Democrats are dangerously silent. Senate leaders, afraid that honest proposals will cost them a majority in next year's elections, have retreated into the shadows. President Obama, who will need a more robust response in the campaign, is negotiating drastic cuts to avoid government default.
Meanwhile, a tenth of the labor force will have to wait that much longer for relief.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TAX LAW (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (64%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (50%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); TIM PAWLENTY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



469 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (CBS) THE 65TH ANNUAL TONY AWARDS Neil Patrick Harris, right, always a boost for awards-show ratings, sings and dances his way through the role of host for this ceremony honoring excellence on Broadway, to be broadcast live from the Beacon Theater in Manhattan. Performers include the casts of the nominees for best musical and best musical revival -- ''Anything Goes,'' ''Catch Me if You Can,'' ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying,'' ''Sister Act,'' ''The Book of Mormon'' and ''The Scottsboro Boys'' -- as well as ''Memphis,'' ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark,'' ''Ghetto Klown'' and ''Priscilla Queen of the Desert.'' The cast of the New York Philharmonic's production of ''Company,'' including Stephen Colbert, Jon Cryer, Christina Hendricks, Patti LuPone, Martha Plimpton and Anika Noni Rose, will also reassemble. Among the presenters are Matthew Broderick, Harry Connick Jr., Viola Davis, Joel Grey, Whoopi Goldberg, Kelsey Grammer, Samuel L. Jackson, James Earl Jones and Robin Williams.
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Chris Wallace interviews the 2012 Republican presidential candidate Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota. 
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION The topics: Jobs and the economy, changes in Medicare and the latest on the budget negotiations. The guests: Representatives Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland, and Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the Democratic National Committee chairwoman, and Reince Priebus, the Republican National Committee chairman, debate issues of the 2012 election campaign. The ''Meet the Candidates'' series continues with Rick Santorum, a former Republican senator from Pennsylvania.
7:30 P.M. (FMC) LIFE AFTER FILM SCHOOL Mark Waters, the director of ''Mr. Popper's Penguins,'' which opens on Friday, discusses some of the challenges of working with live penguins and that funny bird Jim Carrey.
8 P.M. (Oxygen) THE GLEE PROJECT: THE FINAL 12 Ryan Murphy, the creator of Fox's ''Glee,'' is the mastermind behind this reality series in which young performers will train and compete for a guest role on ''Glee.'' The 12 finalists are introduced in a casting episode before they are challenged to put their own spin on Katy Perry's ''Firework'' in the first competition episode at 9.
8 P.M. (Fox News Channel) THE MONEY HOLE John Stossel examines the national debt crisis with the help of guests including Luis Fortuno, the governor of Puerto Rico.
9 P.M. (WE) BRIDEZILLAS They're back, and more terrifying than ever. A new season of soon-to-be-brides behaving badly begins with the cases of Erica, who bullies her bridesmaids, refuses to pay the church and goes ballistic on her wedding day; and Krystal, who merely gets into a fight at her bachelorette party. ''Amsale Girls,'' a new series at 10, ventures into the Amsale bridal salon in Manhattan, home of a legendary sales force and $75,000 gowns.
9 P.M. (OWN) FINDING SARAH In this new reality series, Sarah Ferguson, right, the beleaguered Duchess of York, tries to figure out how to patch up her life, with help from Dr. Phil and Suze Orman.
9 P.M. (Animal Planet) SWAMP WARS Got a giant snake in your yard? How about an alligator, a tegu (lizard) or some Africanized bees ? If you're in Miami, chances are you'll call Venom One, a group of firefighters and paramedics with Miami-Dade Fire Rescue, and the holder of the self-proclaimed largest antivenin bank in the world.
10 P.M. (Lifetime) THE PROTECTOR After the Season 5 finale of ''Army Wives'' at 9, Ally Walker plays Gloria Sheppard, a homicide detective with the Los Angeles Police Department and a single mother of two boys, who tries to juggle the personal and professional with the help of her troubled younger brother, Davey (Chris Payne Gilbert).
10 P.M. (E!) KEEPING UP WITH THE KARDASHIANS The clan returns for a sixth season of antics and reality-show branding, with particular attention to Kim's relationship with her fiance, the basketball player Kris Humphries of the New Jersey Nets. Then there's the discovery by Bruce Jenner that his daughter, Kendall, 15, is on birth control pills.
10 P.M. (AMC) THE KILLING Detectives Linden (Mireille Enos) and Holder (Joel Kinnaman) discover that the murdered Rosie was linked to an unusual Web site. Meanwhile, the mayoral campaign of Councilman Richmond (Billy Campbell) gets an unexpected boost. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN WINTER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); RELIGION (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); PUBLIC DEBT (64%); DEBT CRISIS (64%); THEATER (58%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (85%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); JIM CARREY (58%); STENY HOYER (56%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (56%); STEPHEN COLBERT (51%); TIM PAWLENTY (50%); LUIS G FORTUNO (50%); RICK SANTORUM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PUERTO RICO (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2011



470 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Free To Lose

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: New Jersey, groaning under tyranny. 

 BODY:
Matt Yglesias is having fun with a study from the Mercatus Center (pdf) purporting to rank states by their levels of freedom. I was disappointed to discover that New Jersey is only the second most tyrannical regime, behind New York. 
One of Matt's readers does the correlations, and finds that 
The Mercatus Institute's freedom score was significantly linked to (by state)- lower educational attainment (measured by percent of Bachelor degrees or higher), lower population density, lower per capita GDP, increased infant mortality, increased accident mortality, increased incidence of suicide, increased firearm mortality, decreased industrial R&D, and increased income inequality.
This suggests that New Hampshire, which Mercatus considers the freest state (with South Dakota just behind) has its state motto slightly off. It should be "Live free and die."
All this reminds me of a piece I wrote way back when about those who denigrate urban, blue-state Americans as not being part of the "real America"; maybe not, but by most social measures, the blue states actually look pretty good -- and they heavily subsidize those real Americans.
Also, I was struck, in the comments on my UBS piece, by one reference to the "squalor" of New York. How very 1975! Yes, there are lots of bad neighborhoods. But try visiting the Upper West Side on a nice day; if this be squalor, let's have more of it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (70%); INFANT MORTALITY (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



471 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: The Game of Twitter

BYLINE: VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN


HIGHLIGHT: Other issues aside, how well did Anthony Weiner navigate the virtual social club that is Twitter? 

 BODY:
For a Generation Xer born 34 years before Google, Anthony Weiner seemed to have a younger man's knack for Internet culture. In merely 20 months using Twitter, the virtual social club that now has more than 200 million participants, Weiner managed to interest some 77,000 people in subscribing to his dispatches, jokes and provocations on topics ranging from hockey to finance to Israel's borders. 
Weiner, whose trafficking in vulgar online communiques may have ruined his political career, may not deserve to stay married. But he should not be pilloried forever. He was a skilled and even advanced Twitter player, whose politics and erotic life, like those of so many Americans under 40, were centered in digital culture. At a time when political analysts like James Carville, who said recently on CNN that he'd never seen Twitter, flaunt their ignorance of the Internet, we need more thoroughly digital minds - even if, like all minds, they periodically turn dirty - in public life. 
Heavy users of Twitter, as Weiner used to be (he hasn't posted since June 1), play a complicated strategy game. Like World of Warcraft and Halo, Twitter is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game, but with higher real-world stakes. It is grounded in the first principles of game theory, including variations on the Prisoner's Dilemma. You have to give to get; you have to get to give. Managing these ratios - deciding how much of your attention to expend to win attention to yourself, say - is the lion's share of the Twitter action. 
Players of Twitter risk their reputations, their careers and their relationships. But incentives to keep playing Twitter abound, too, as Weiner discovered. Twitter can burnish reputations, as it did for Weiner when he broke news; gave fast, fresh takes; and used links inventively. It can build careers, as it also has done for Weiner, whom Newsday praised as the architect of a "new political paradigm." And it can develop alliances, as it did by connecting Weiner to another sophisticated Twitterer, Meghan McCain, over their mutual support of gay marriage. 
Anthony Weiner went from a junior congressman to a politician of national significance, thanks in large part to his use of new media. By following back some of his most ardent fans, the way a teen idol might oblige his fans with signed photos, and otherwise working the apparatus of Twitter to drive up his followers and get a hearing for his issues, he managed to create an online persona using the same tricks - digital versions of gerrymandering, triangulating and earmark - that politicians use. Twitter handsomely rewards those with a capacity for risk and an aptitude for the social sciences, especially economics, game theory, psychology and sociology.
In August, 2009, Weiner burst onto Twitter with a candid resolution to let loose, and "to Twitter w/o telling my minders." Like millions of others, he found in social-networking liberation from traditional cultural restraints, the "minders" who might monitor his message - a sanctioned form of mischief in a symbolic order that let him walk a line between spoken and written language, political life and personal life, politicking and transgressing. On Twitter, "conversations" among users are staged for a broader audience; you always live in the flicker between personal and public.
Weiner on Twitter was like an amateur pianist on an improv tear. He posted sometimes dozens of times a day, trying out the conventions of Twitter as if he were practicing themes and variations. He especially liked the hashtag and @-reply tricks that help a Twitterer cultivate a readership. He was also self-effacing. He chose a deliberately homely teen photo of himself as an avatar, and apologized whenever he screwed up. "#CarelessMistake," he admitted, last month, when, in making an elliptical joke, he mistook a detail of the career of Dwayne Roloson, the hockey goalie. 
In March, way back when Weiner had a mere 15,000 subscribers, Time magazine named his Twitter posts among the nation's most influential. In short order, then, Weiner had come to live and breathe the heady, speedy air of the so-called Twitterverse. This immersion in Twitter was considered, by many media outlets including The Times, a canny political move for congressman looking to serve his constituency and consolidate power in New York. Residents of the state of New York use Twitter some thirty percent more than the national average, and New York City, for per capita use, is considered the Twitter capital of the world.
But Weiner's Twitter game was far from perfect. After Weiner's revelations, Time magazine quickly amended its article praising Weiner's use of Twitter, saying, "Perhaps we overstated his savvy just a bit." 
#CarelessMistake indeed. 
It seems Weiner's made a serious rookie error: he took the idea of "followers" seriously, as if having people who click "follow" after your name, and thus are privy to your bulletins, were akin to having the kind of followers that gurus and cult leaders do. While cult followers are much more devoted to their leader than, say, constituents in a democracy, Twitter "followers" are much, much less devoted. They're better thought of as readers or subscribers - and each figure they "follow" is almost always one among hundreds or thousands more. 
In the form of hashtags, Weiner also brought up subjects and invented half-funny one-liners that rarely got picked up by others, which suggests that he used hashtags prolifically but not shrewdly. 
Finally, in broadcasting a link to an intimate self-portrait that he meant to send directly to another user, Weiner made a common but still stupid mistake. Like faulting at a serve in tennis or losing a pawn in chess, the mistake of accidentally tweeting a direct message in Twitter - some Twitterers now call that error "pulling a Weiner" - can be trivial or, as we now all know, extremely costly. 
So Weiner's Twitter game was mixed - energetic and sophisticated, but flawed. Weiner and other men in their 40s, as Marc Tracy put it recently in Tablet, "lie in the sweet spot that makes them unusually prone to this sort of Social Media Age gaffe: Too young not to be fully engaged in this hyper-fast, hyper-linked world, but too old to fully, intuitively understand its hazards." At the same time, even Dick Costolo, the chief executive of Twitter, has admitted he doesn't know exactly what Twitter is for. And if we don't know what Twitter's for, we can't know who puts it to the best purpose. That's why Twitter is more usefully thought of as a game than a service. Like all other immersive games - including tennis, fantasy football and chess - Twitter is spellbinding when you're in it, and seems nuts and like a sicko waste of time when you're not. 
In the days immediately after the Weiner revelations, according to the statisticians at TweetCongress, posts by Republicans went down 27 percent, while posts from Democrats dropped 29 percent. That's too bad. In Weiner's apologia speech, he urged the media not to blame social media for his personal and sexual habits. We shouldn't. There's nothing intrinsically immoral about Twitter. It doesn't have to be given up like drugs. But people who use Twitter do need to improve their skills, and, more than ever, we need people who understand the massive new online game, like Anthony Weiner, to help explain it all to us.

        
Reality Check
        
Making a Hashtag of It
        
The Internet Kept Me Company
        
My Luddite Summer
        
Morning Skim: Tweets Online and Quiet in the Streets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER GAMES (76%); MARRIAGE (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%) anthony weiner; game-playing; social media; Twitter; Weiner, Anthony D; Social Networking (Internet); Virginia Heffernan

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Twitter

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (93%) Weiner, Anthony D

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



472 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, June 12

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: After a week of twists in the 2012 presidential election, the talk shows are discussing the race and the economy. 

 BODY:
The 2012 presidential election saw some new twists this week as Newt Gingrich's senior advisers resigned and Mitt Romney announced plans to skip the Iowa straw poll. Keeping up the conversation, the Sunday shows will focus on the race as well as the economy.
NBC's "Meet the Press" matches up the heads of the Democratic and Republican National Committees, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Democrat of Florida, and Reince Priebus, to debate the issues and weigh in on what's at stake for each party in the next election. And now that former Senator Rick Santorum has officially entered the race as a Republican candidate for president, NBC features a "Meet the Candidate" segment on Mr. Santorum.
Meanwhile, one of his Republican challengers, former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, will be on "Fox News Sunday," talking about the economy and laying out how he would handle the crisis as president.
Previewing its Republican presidential debate in New Hampshire on Monday, CNN is talking politics with Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, and Representative Charles Bass, also a Republican of New Hampshire, on "State of the Union." Also on the show: New Hampshire Republicans former Gov. John H. Sununu and his son, former Senator John E. Sununu.
CBS's "Face the Nation" features Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the House Democratic whip; Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee; and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.
Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, will appear on C-Span's "Newsmakers" to discuss the debt and spending problems. Is there room for compromise in Congress on these critical issues?
ABC delves into the nation's economic troubles on "This Week" with Senator Richard Shelby, Republican of Alabama and ranking member of the Senate Banking Committee; Jon Corzine, chairman and chief executive of MF Global Inc. and a former New Jersey governor who was also chairman and chief executive of Goldman Sachs; and Robert Reich, former labor secretary under the Clinton administration.
Plus, ABC will have updates on the scandal surrounding Representative Anthony D. Weiner, Democrat of New York, who announced that he would request a leave of absence from Congress to seek psychiatric counseling amidst calls for his resignation on Saturday.
TV One's "Washington Watch" will feature Jim Wallis, who is president and chief executive of Sojourners, a progressive Christian magazine, and author of "Rediscovering Values," and Peter Sprigg, who is senior fellow for policy studies at the Family Research Council, discussing the role of morality in governing.
TV One will also play host to Austan Goolsbee, chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, who will weigh in on the economy. Mr. Goolsbee announced on Monday that he will resign from the post and return to Harvard.
And in anticipation of Monday's congressional hearing on "Fast and Furious," the controversial American operation that allowed weapons to pour into Mexico, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, will be on Univision's "Al Punto" to discuss the investigation into the program.
Also on Univision: Retired General Otto Perez Molina, a presidential candidate in Guatemala, and Peruvian President-Elect Ollanta Humala.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); WRITERS (60%) The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); PAUL RYAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); RICK SANTORUM (73%); JON CORZINE (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); STENY HOYER (58%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (57%); JOHN SUNUNU (56%); KELLY AYOTTE (56%); CHARLES BASS (56%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



473 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: One Alaskan's War on Oil Dependency

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: The man who lost Alaska's governorship to Sarah Palin five years ago now aims to help the country reduce its oil habit. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Tony Knowles helped make Sarah Palin a political celebrity by losing the Alaska governor's race to her five years ago. Now he is seeking another legacy.
As president of the National Energy Policy Institute, Mr. Knowles aims to kick-start Washington's stalled dialogue on curbing the nation's oil habit. But because his potential solutions include higher gas taxes, his odds of success are about the same as defeating Ms. Palin in a publicity contest.
"So many people who care about energy are disappointed or discouraged," said Mr. Knowles, below, a Democrat. "We just want the debate to start again."
That's the bleak landscape facing President Obama on his top unfulfilled policy goal.
He has long advocated sweeping policy changes in the name of energy independence and action against climate change. In his first two years in office, he wanted an economy-wide curb on the carbon dioxide emissions that scientists say fuel global warming.
Even as Mr. Obama won an economic stimulus package, a national health care system and more aggressive Wall Street regulations, that "cap and trade" goal proved elusive. House Democrats passed a version, only to watch it die in the Senate and then lose their majority to Republicans.
In this year's State of the Union address, Mr. Obama proposed a different approach: a federal standard requiring 80 percent of the nation's electricity to come from "clean energy" sources by 2035.
But Democrats concede that Congress won't pass one anytime soon - not while such ideas remain vulnerable to the charge that they will make a weak economy weaker. "The term 'job killer,' " observed James Carville, President Bill Clinton's onetime strategist, "kills anything."
Mr. Obama and his allies might have expected to make more headway. His Republican predecessor, George W. Bush, declared, "We have a serious problem: America is addicted to oil." His 2008 Republican opponent, Senator John McCain of Arizona, also backed a cap on carbon emissions.
So have some of Mr. Obama's potential 2012 adversaries, including two former governors, Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota and Jon Huntsman of Utah, though both have backed away from that position.
When Mitt Romney was governor of Massachusetts, his administration helped create a greenhouse gas emissions curb for Northeastern states before he temporarily blocked his state's participation. But electoral politics, economic pressures and catastrophic events have overwhelmed the chances for bipartisan agreement.
A Spill and a Tsunami
The 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico buffeted Mr. Obama's plan to coax Republican cooperation with expanded drilling. One source of "clean energy" embraced by both Mr. Obama and Republicans, nuclear power, was tarnished by the crisis in Japan this year.
Most significant, there is no escaping the fact that shifting energy consumption involves short-term costs few politicians want responsibility for with unemployment at 9.1 percent.
The vagaries of gas prices have not helped. Low prices in 2009-10 took urgency away from calls for change; high prices now, which should make alternative energy more competitive and easier to promote, make cash-strapped Americans feel more aggrieved. "We cannot keep going from shock when gas prices go up to trance when they go back down," Mr. Obama said this year.
So far, the nation has responded as it has to every president since Richard M. Nixon: Yes, we can.
Making Progress
Congressional resistance does not mean Mr. Obama cannot make progress toward his energy and environmental goals. In fact, he has.
The failure of cap and trade notwithstanding, the recession itself helped cut carbon dioxide emissions in 2009 through reduced economy activity, and Mr. Obama used his regulatory authority to significantly increase auto fuel efficiency standards through 2016 with the industry's assent.
Soon the administration will propose higher standards through 2025. Meanwhile, the government has sought to foster additional shifts through window stickers on new cars assessing their fuel costs and environmental impact.
"There is an under-the-radar transformation under way," driven by consumer choice rather than legislation, said Dan Weiss, a former Sierra Club official now at the liberal Center for American Progress. He cited government data showing that, over all, carbon dioxide emissions in 2010 were 6.5 percent below 2005 levels.
Mr. Obama vows to use his executive authority to curb emissions by power plants, which rely on coal for about half the nation's electricity. But given resistance from Republicans and coal-state Democrats, few expect his approach to yield the results that cap and trade or other means of "pricing" carbon emissions would.
That leaves advocates of more far-reaching change, like Mr. Knowles, struggling to keep the issue alive. Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, who backed energy and climate legislation that failed in 2010, is also exploring a campaign to raise awareness.
But barring some major political shift, "we're not going to get the big thing," said Kathleen Frangione, a former Kerry adviser on climate change. "And that's a disappointment."

        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
McCain: Let States Decide on Offshore Drilling
        
More Earthly Ideas
        
Is Sarah Palin Pulling a Donald Trump?
        
Trump and Huckabee Leave Boring Race Behind

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); OIL SPILLS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); CONSUMPTION (68%); HEALTH CARE (67%); FUEL TAX (56%) barack obama; Environment; oil; sarah palin; Tony Knowles; Obama, Barack; Palin, Sarah; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; The Caucus

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Obama, Barack; Palin, Sarah

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



474 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Bank of Israel Governor In Race for I.M.F. Post

BYLINE: By JACK EWING; Judy Dempsey and Caroline Brothers contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With probably the most impressive resume and the least chance of succeeding, Stanley Fischer, the governor of the Bank of Israel, has added his name to the list of candidates for managing director of the International Monetary Fund.
A globally renowned economist who is credited with stabilizing the Israeli shekel during his six years as head of the country's central bank, Mr. Fischer also spent seven years as first deputy managing director of the I.M.F., and knows the organization well.
''It was because of this experience that I decided to stand,'' Mr. Fischer said in a statement Saturday. 
But despite Mr. Fischer's qualifications, even he seemed to acknowledge that he has only a slim chance of being chosen over the front-runner, Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister. Agustin G. Carstens, the governor of Mexico's central bank, is also campaigning for the job.
''An extraordinary and unplanned opportunity has come up, possibly one that will not come again,'' Mr. Fischer said in his statement. He decided to pursue the I.M.F. job, he said, ''despite the process being complicated and despite the possible barriers.''
Mr. Fischer had a distinguished academic career before entering public service, writing numerous economics textbooks and serving as head of the economics department at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He was also chief economist at the World Bank from 1988 to 1990. He has private sector experience as a vice chairman of Citigroup from 2002 to 2005, when he became governor of the Bank of Israel.
''On the basis of his qualifications he is as serious as either of the other two candidates,'' said Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist of High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. ''The work he has done in stabilizing the Israeli economy and stabilizing prices is viewed as a textbook application of monetary policy.''
Still, the obstacles to Mr. Fischer's candidacy are formidable. As he acknowledged in his statement, at 67 he already exceeds the age limit of 65 for candidates for managing director, meaning a change in I.M.F. rules would be necessary for him to be elected by the 187 countries that participate in the selection.
With joint United States and Israeli citizenship, Mr. Fischer's passports work against him. By informal arrangement, the United States has supplied the head of the World Bank, while the head of the I.M.F. has come from Europe. In addition, Arab countries might object to an Israeli in the I.M.F. post.
''Stan Fischer would make an excellent I.M.F. managing director. But, at this late stage, he does not have enough support to succeed,'' the economist Nouriel Roubini told Reuters. Mr. Fischer was voted most suited to run the I.M.F. in a Reuters poll of economists.
Its executive board has set a June 30 deadline for selecting a successor to Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who resigned as I.M.F. managing director last month after being accused of sexually assaulting a hotel maid in New York.
Ms. Lagarde is highly regarded for her negotiating skills, and has the strong support of Germany, where she enjoys a warm working relationship with Wolfgang Schauble, the finance minister. The fact that she is a woman might also help restore the reputation of the I.M.F. after the arrest of Mr. Strauss-Kahn, who denies the charges against him.
Though she is the front-runner, Ms. Lagarde faces abuse of power charges for her intervention in a court case involving a French tycoon. A French court moved on Friday to postpone a decision on the investigation, removing an immediate hurdle to Ms. Lagarde's candidacy but leaving her open to possible future legal proceedings.
Ms. Lagarde has been on a worldwide tour of countries including Brazil, India and China in what appears to be a successful campaign to win support from developing nations, some of which had said it was time for someone from a poorer country to manage the I.M.F.
''Everybody is free to file a candidacy,'' Ms. Lagarde told reporters in Cairo on Sunday, after meeting with the Egyptian finance minister, Samir Mohamed Radwan, about her own bid, Bloomberg News reported. She noted that Mr. Fischer is experienced, Bloomberg said.
Russia has also nominated Grigori A. Martchenko, Kazakhstan's central bank president.
The deadline for nominations was Friday. Mr. Fischer did not say when he had submitted his name.
The I.M.F. assists countries in overcoming financial crises, but typically makes loans contingent on harsh austerity measures.
Strong political skills are crucial for the I.M.F. managing director, which would seem to be another factor in Ms. Lagarde's favor. However, Mr. Weinberg of High Frequency Economics noted that Mr. Fischer was able to cope with Israel's fractious politics while pushing for fiscal discipline and cutting inflation.
In Israel, Yuval Steinitz, the finance minister, on Sunday said that the country would back Mr. Fischer's candidacy, but also gave him little chance of being chosen.
''First there is the age obstacle,'' Mr. Steinitz told Israel's Army Radio during an interview Sunday. ''And the choice is very much political. Were it purely professional it would be hard-pressed to find a better person than Fischer.''
In a 1987 paper with parallels to the current debt crisis in some European nations, Mr. Fischer argued in favor of debt relief for countries in Africa and Latin America. The overly indebted countries had ''performed miracles'' to try to service their debts, he wrote in The American Economic Review.
''But the price in terms of growth has been heavy,'' he said. ''The time for debt relief has arrived.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stanley Fischer made a last minute bid for the managing director job at the I.M.F. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC PIERMONT/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); CITIZENSHIP (64%); GOVERNORS (58%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ISRAEL (93%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (58%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



475 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include retail sales and the producer price index for May, and business inventories for April (Tuesday); consumer price index and industrial production and capacity utilization for May (Wednesday); housing starts for May, weekly jobless claims, current account deficit for the first quarter, and Philadelphia Fed manufacturing index for June (Thursday); and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer confidence index for June, and leading economic indicators for May (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Best Buy (Tuesday); Kroger, Pier 1 Imports, and Smithfield Foods (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES A House Judiciary subcommittee will hold a hearing on the merger of NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse (Monday); a House Financial Services subcommittee will discuss the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the concept of ''too big to fail'' (Tuesday); Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is scheduled to testify before the House Financial Services Committee on the state of the international financial system (Wednesday).
IN ASIA The Bank of Japan will conclude a policy-setting meeting, and China is scheduled to release data on inflation, retail sales and factory production (Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (57%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (57%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (56%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: PIR (NYSE) (57%); SFD (NYSE) (57%); NYX (PAR) (56%); NYX (NYSE) (56%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (57%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (57%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (57%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



476 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: What the Inspectors Say: If it wanted, Iran could easily clear up any doubts about its nuclear program

 BODY:
Iran continues to stonewall about its illicit nuclear activities. The International Atomic Energy Agency isn't falling for it. Nobody should.
The agency's latest report is chilling. While Tehran claims that its program has solely peaceful ends, it lists seven activities with potential ''military dimensions.'' That includes ''activities related to the development of a nuclear payload for a missile''; new evidence that Iran has worked on a highly sophisticated nuclear triggering technology; and research on missile warhead designs -- namely ''studies involving the removal of the conventional high explosive payload from the warhead of the Shahab 3 missile and replacing it with a spherical nuclear payload.''
After the Iraq debacle, all claims must be examined closely. The I.A.E.A. has a strong record -- in the run-up to the war it insisted there was no evidence that Iraq had a nuclear weapons program -- and no ax to grind. There are still more questions to be answered. 
American intelligence agencies, rightly chastened by their failure in Iraq, concluded in 2007 that Tehran had halted the weapons portion of its nuclear program four years earlier. United States officials now say that Iran's massive ''Manhattan Project'' ended then but that many of the same scientists are still engaged in weapons-related pursuits. Meanwhile, Yukiya Amano, the head of the I.A.E.A., said in a news conference last week that ''the activities in Iran related to the possible military dimension seem to have been continued until quite recently.'' More explanation is needed.
Tehran insists the agency's allegations are fabricated. At the same time, it is refusing to answer the inspectors' questions about possible work on weapons designs and is blocking their access to sites, equipment and documents. Five years after the United Nations Security Council ordered it to halt uranium enrichment, Iran still has thousands of centrifuges spinning at its Natanz plant.
We don't know if any mixture of sanctions and incentives will change that behavior. We are certain that without more pressure Tehran will keep pushing its program forward. The major powers' last attempt at negotiations, in January, hit a wall, but Washington and its allies should keep looking for diplomatic openings. The fourth round of United Nations sanctions, imposed a year ago, is starting to bite, reducing Iran's access to foreign capital, trade and investments. But implementation is still lagging.
The European Union finally moved last month to rein in the Iranian-owned bank in Germany, the European-Iranian Trade Bank, which is accused of facilitating billions of dollars of transactions for blacklisted Iranian companies. China has yet to sufficiently crack down on the Chinese firms that still do business with Iran's sanctioned entities. Turkey, India and the United Arab Emirates, a major hub for Iranian commerce, are still too cozy with Tehran.
Iran has not wasted the intervening year and is always looking for signs of weakness. The United States and its allies need to tighten the current round of sanctions and start working on another Security Council resolution with even tougher sanctions.
If there is any good news in the I.A.E.A. report, it appears that Iran's enrichment program is not advancing as fast as many feared -- the result of the Stuxnet computer virus and sanctions that make it harder for Tehran to import needed materials from overseas. That has not blunted its ambitions. The Iranians said on Wednesday that they plan to triple production of the most concentrated nuclear fuel -- the kind that could get them closer to a bomb.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); CENTRIFUGES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN (91%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); GERMANY (74%); UNITED STATES (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



477 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Tiny Town Recruits Students Worldwide

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: oneducation@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Newcomb, N.Y.
When Clark Hults was hired to be the school superintendent here in 2006, Newcomb was just another dying mining town in the Adirondacks North Country.
The population had dropped to 477 from a high of 1,500 in the 1980s. Young people who could get out, did; the median age was 55. Enrollment in the Newcomb Central School District -- actually a single brick building along Route 28N -- was at an all-time low, 55 students from prekindergarten to 12th grade. And George H. Canon, the town supervisor, feared the worst: ''If the school died, the town would lose its purpose.'' The school system, with 35 jobs, is Newcomb's biggest employer.
Then Mr. Hults, known as Skip (who is also principal, assistant principal and van driver, and who answers the phones when Pam Bush, the receptionist, steps away) had a bright idea. America is known around the world for its education system, he reasoned. Newcomb needed a niche to stand apart from other dying towns. Why not bring in students from all over the world and give the local economy a much-needed boost?
On its face, it sounded preposterous. 
But in the last four years, 30 students from 19 countries (including Iraq, Vietnam, Russia, Israel and Lebanon) have spent a year studying in Newcomb, of all places. This, in turn, has attracted students from surrounding districts, who, as Mr. Hults put it, want something more from a school than an all-Caucasian experience. Enrollment has climbed to 85 and is expected to hit 100 next year.
It does take a while for foreign students to acclimate. When Manon Vernette, 19, of France, learned her parents had signed her up for a New York school, she was thinking ''Empire State Building.'' Then she did a Google Earth search. ''It was all trees,'' she said. ''I said, 'What the heck, where do you go shopping?' '' When they told her there was no cellphone service, she wept.
A year later, she is glad she came. With a senior class of four students, she found it easy to get extra help from teachers. She and her boyfriend, Lukas Marra, 17, a sophomore, no longer need Google Translate to express their love.
Ms. Vernette likes the rope swing at Mill Creek; she likes jumping off the Santanoni Bridge into Lake Belden. Last week, she saw a mother and baby moose standing along Route 28N.
Of course, even in Newcomb, not everything is perfect. ''It snowed in May,'' she recalled. '' I said, 'What the heck?' '' June is black fly month in the Adirondacks, and Ms. Vernette said, ''What the heck, time to go.''
Foreign students pay $8,000 for the year. Half goes to the host family, half to the school district. If they pass all the necessary state Regents tests next week, they earn a New York high school diploma. Mr. Hults has also created a program that allows his students to earn college credits. The foreign students generate little extra state revenue, but costs are also minimal, since no extra staff members are needed.
''Nobody is doing what Skip is doing,'' said Carl Springer, an American in Thailand whose agency, Asiamerica, places 600 foreign high school students a year in the United States -- mostly at private schools. ''Newcomb is one of the most affordable,'' he said in an interview via Skype. ''A typical private school is $25,000.''
There are more big plans ahead for little Newcomb. Next fall Mr. Hults expects to have his largest group yet, 12 foreign students. ''We're working on getting two from Ethiopia,'' he said. On Friday, he conducted an admissions interview with a boy in Russia, using Skype. In Thailand, Mr. Springer is working to line up investors to build a 50-bed dormitory in Newcomb.
If that happens, Mr. Hults plans to raise tuition to $20,000, which would add $1 million to the district's $5 million budget.
Word has spread through the North Country. Sterling T. Goodspeed is town supervisor of nearby Johnsburg, but he and his wife, Susan, pulled their son Taylor out of school there and transferred him to Newcomb. They feared Taylor was growing up narrow-minded. ''If a boy took art or music they'd call him gay,'' Ms. Goodspeed said.
At Newcomb this year, Taylor was a lead in the school play.
The Goodspeeds are housing a Vietnamese student, Quan Luu. In Katherine Larkin's history class, Taylor and Quan debated the Vietnam War. Quan said reports of torture at the prison known as the Hanoi Hilton were exaggerated.
''It makes history exciting,'' Ms. Larkin said.
The boys are now friends. Taylor gives Quan a hard time about how Vietnamese people eat dogs; Quan gives the Goodspeed's dog, Rusty, a big hug and says, ''You look delicious.''
All middle and high school students spend a month working on a research paper. Four years ago, Arcane Huang, from China, wrote his on Tiananmen Square. ''He didn't know about all the deaths,'' Ms. Larkin said. ''They don't teach that in China.''
The other Vietnamese student this year, Anh Pham, is living with the family of Charles Minke, a retired photographer who did four tours with the Navy in Vietnam. ''Needless to say, we have interesting conversations,'' he said. ''I think we've both learned a lot. I tell Anh, Vietnam is the only country we've gone to war with that hasn't sent an automobile back.''
The foreign students were surprised by the sophistication of the technology at the little school. Newcomb is located within Adirondack State Park. As compensation for keeping the area forever wild, the state provides much of the revenue to the local schools. Homeowners here pay an average of just $700 in property taxes a year. Even so, Newcomb has interactive teaching displays known as Smart Boards in the classrooms, a computer for every student and the latest teleconferencing equipment to enable distance learning with bigger districts.
''I was surprised,'' Ms. Vernette said. ''There's more than at my school in France.''
Still, as much as the foreign students have liked living in the near-wild, they look forward to returning to dependable cellphone service. They've seen what Taylor Goodspeed goes through.
''I went around town with my phone, experimenting,'' he explained. ''I was walking down the driveway to go up on the roof and see if I got a signal, and by accident, I realized I could get one bar if I sat on a lawn chair at the bottom of the driveway.''
Word spread quickly. ''People come by to sit in the lawn chair and use their cellphones,'' Taylor said. ''Some people pull up in cars.''
Alas, even in Newcomb, not everything is perfect.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anh Pham, second from left, from Hanoi, Vietnam, at Newcomb Central School in upstate New York. Flags of foreign students' home countries adorn a hallway at the school. (A17)
 A map at Newcomb Central School depicts current students' homelands. There have been 30 foreign students in four years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); MAMMALS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (64%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (69%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%) UNITED STATES (91%); LEBANON (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); ISRAEL (79%); VIETNAM (69%); VIET NAM (69%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



478 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2591 words

HEADLINE: In Nuclear Crisis, Crippling Mistrust

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI and MARTIN FACKLER; Kantaro Suzuki contributed reporting.

 BODY:
TOKYO -- On the evening of March 12, the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant's oldest reactor had suffered a hydrogen explosion and risked a complete meltdown. Prime Minister Naoto Kan asked aides to weigh the risks of injecting seawater into the reactor to cool it down.
At this crucial moment, it became clear that a prime minister who had built his career on suspicion of the collusive ties between Japan's industry and bureaucracy was acting nearly in the dark. He had received a confusing risk analysis from the chief nuclear regulator, a fervently pro-nuclear academic whom aides said Mr. Kan did not trust. He was also wary of the company that operated the plant, given its history of trying to cover up troubles.
Mr. Kan did not know that the plant manager had already begun using seawater. Based on a guess of the mood at the prime minister's office, the company ordered the plant manager to stop.
But the manager did something unthinkable in corporate Japan: he disobeyed the order and secretly continued using seawater, a decision that experts say almost certainly prevented a more serious meltdown and has made him an unlikely hero. 
The convoluted drama has exposed the underlying rifts behind Japan's handling of the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl, which eventually resulted in explosions at four of the plant's six reactors. Mutually suspicious relations between the prime minister's aides, government bureaucrats and company officials obstructed smooth decision-making.
At the drama's heart was an outsider prime minister who saw the need for quick action but whose well-founded mistrust of a system of alliances between powerful plant operators, compliant bureaucrats and sympathetic politicians deprived him of resources he could have used to make better-informed decisions.
A onetime grass-roots activist, Mr. Kan struggled to manage the nuclear crisis because he felt he could not rely on the very mechanisms established by his predecessors to respond to such a crisis.
Instead, he turned at the beginning only to a handful of close, overwhelmed advisers who knew little about nuclear plants and who barely exchanged information with the plant's operator and nuclear regulators. Struggling to manage a humanitarian disaster caused by the tsunami, Mr. Kan improvised his government's response to the worsening nuclear crisis, seeming to vacillate between personally intervening at the plant and leaving it to the operator, the Tokyo Electric Power Company, known as Tepco.
''There were delays. First of all, we weren't getting accurate information from Tepco,'' said Kenichi Matsumoto, an adviser to Mr. Kan. But Mr. Matsumoto added that the prime minister's distrust of Tepco and bureaucrats ''interfered'' with the overall response.
The early disarray alarmed the United States government enough that it increasingly urged the Japanese to take more decisive action, and to be more forthcoming in sharing information. Making matters worse was Mr. Kan's initial reluctance to accept the help of the United States, which offered pump trucks, unmanned drones and the advice of American nuclear crisis experts.
''We found ourselves in a downward spiral, which hurt relations with the United States,'' said Manabu Terada, a lawmaker who served as an aide to Mr. Kan at that time. ''We lost credibility with America, and Tepco lost credibility with us.''
Lack of Experience
Even some supporters say that Mr. Kan could have moved faster and more decisively if he had used Japan's existing crisis management system.
The system was created in 1986 and subsequently strengthened by Japanese leaders who had sought more power for the prime minister. Modeled on crisis management in the White House -- even down to the Situation Room under the prime minister's office -- the system brought together bureaucrats from various ministries under the direct command of the prime minister, said Atsuyuki Sassa, the head of the Cabinet Security Affairs Office in the late 1980s.
Critics and supporters alike said Mr. Kan's decision to bypass this system, choosing instead to rely on a small circle of trusted advisers with little experience in handling a crisis of this scale, blocked him from grasping the severity of the disaster sooner. Sometimes those advisers did not even know all the resources available to them.
This includes the existence of a nationwide system of radiation detectors known as the System for Prediction of Environmental Emergency Dose Information, or Speedi. Mr. Terada and other advisers said they did not learn of the system's existence until March 16, five days into the crisis.
If they had known earlier, they would have seen Speedi's early projections that radiation from the Fukushima plant would be blown northwest, said one critic, Hiroshi Kawauchi, a lawmaker in Mr. Kan's own party. Mr. Kawauchi said that many of the residents around the plant who evacuated went north, on the assumption that winds blew south during winter in that area. That took them directly into the radioactive plume, he said -- exposing them to the very radiation that they were fleeing.
Mr. Kawauchi said that when he asked officials at the Ministry of Education, which administers Speedi, why they did not make the information available to the prime minister in those first crucial days, they replied that the prime minister's office had not asked them for it.
''It's more of an emotional thing,'' Mr. Matsumoto said of Mr. Kan. ''He never trusts bureaucrats.''
That is a legacy from Mr. Kan's stint as health minister in the mid-1990s, when he became wildly popular after exposing his own ministry's use of blood tainted with H.I.V., which led to hundreds of hemophiliacs dying of AIDS. Mr. Kan found that bureaucrats and pharmaceutical company officials had long known of the tainted blood.
To Mr. Kan, the nuclear establishment -- with politically connected utilities abetted by bureaucrats in the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and compliant academics -- represented the worst example of this kind of collusion, Mr. Matsumoto said.
Ignoring Orders
The seawater example is telling.
In testimony in Parliament in late May, Mr. Kan said that he asked advisers to weigh the risks that the seawater injection could cause ''recriticality,'' a phenomenon in which nuclear fission resumes in melted nuclear fuel lying on the floor of a storage pool or reactor core. Mr. Kan's aides said they grew worried after Haruki Madarame, the chairman of the Nuclear Safety Commission, a nuclear regulator in the prime minister's office, warned that the chances of this happening were ''not zero.''
On March 12, about 28 hours after the tsunami struck, Tepco executives had ordered workers to start injecting seawater into Reactor No. 1. But 21 minutes later, they ordered the plant's manager, Masao Yoshida, to suspend the operation. They were relying on an account by the Tepco liaison to the prime minister, who reported back that he seemed to be against it.
''Well, he said that was the atmosphere or the mood,'' Sakae Muto, Tepco's executive vice president, explained at a news conference.
Mr. Sassa, the former head of the Cabinet Security Affairs Office, said: ''Mood? Is this a joke? Making decisions based on mood?'' But Mr. Yoshida chose to ignore the order. The injections were the only way left to cool the reactor, and halting them would mean possibly causing an even more severe meltdown and release of radiation, experts said.
Mr. Yoshida had the authority as the plant manager to make the decision, said Junichi Matsumoto, a senior official at Tepco. And indeed, guidelines from the International Atomic Energy Agency specify that technical decisions should be left to plant managers because a timely response is critical, said Sung Key-yong, a nuclear accident expert who participated in the agency's recent fact-finding mission to Japan.
After revealing in May that he had ignored the order, Mr. Yoshida explained himself to a television reporter by saying that ''suspending the seawater could have meant death'' for those at the plant.
Mr. Yoshida, 56, according to friends, is a square-jawed, hard-drinking and sometimes rough-talking man who is a straight shooter. A practitioner of kendo in his youth, he also quotes from Raymond Chandler and enjoys cooking Italian food.
''In class, if a teacher didn't explain something properly, he'd push for an explanation that satisfied him,'' said Masanori Baba, a childhood friend.
His candor impressed Mr. Kan, who met him the day after the tsunami when he took a trip on a military helicopter to the plant. They shared a willingness to buck the system, as Mr. Kan had when he uncovered the tainted blood scandal. And, in a country where alumni ties are extremely important, they found they had attended the same college, the Tokyo Institute of Technology.
''One or two days later, Mr. Kan said Mr. Yoshida was the only one he could trust inside Tepco,'' Mr. Matsumoto, the adviser to Mr. Kan, said.
Last week, Tepco gave Mr. Yoshida its lightest punishment of a verbal reprimand for defying the order.
Distrust and Distraction
Mr. Kan's critics and supporters alike say his suspicions of Tepco were well-founded. In the early days after the March 11 disaster, Tepco shared only limited information with the prime minister's office, trying instead to play down the risks at the plant, they said.
Tepco declined to make senior executives available for this article. Mr. Matsumoto, the Tepco senior official, said at a news conference that the company had provided information as best as it could. He declined to comment on Mr. Kan's reported lack of trust of Tepco.
Yet the Kan government essentially left the handling of the nuclear crisis in the crucial first three days to Tepco, focusing instead on relief efforts for the hundreds of thousands left homeless, Mr. Terada and other aides said. Then on March 14, the gravity of the plant's situation was revealed by a second explosion, this time at Reactor No. 3, and a startling request that night from Tepco's president, Masataka Shimizu: that Tepco be allowed to withdraw its employees from the plant because it had become too dangerous to remain.
When he heard this, Mr. Kan flew into a rage, said aides and advisers who were present. Abandoning the plant would mean losing control of the four stricken reactors; the next day, explosions occurred at the two remaining active reactors, No. 2 and No. 4.
''This is not a joke,'' the prime minister yelled, according to the aides.
They said Mr. Kan convened an emergency meeting early on March 15, asking advisers what more could be done to save the reactors. Then he gave Tepco barely two hours' warning that he planned to visit the company.
At 5:30 a.m., Mr. Kan marched into Tepco headquarters and stationed one of his most trusted aides, Goshi Hosono, there to keep tabs on the company.
Mr. Kan gave a five-minute impromptu pep talk, said his aide, Mr. Terada.
''Withdrawing from the plant is out of the question,'' Mr. Kan told them.
Advisers said the placement of Mr. Hosono in Tepco was a turning point, helping the prime minister to take direct control of damage-control efforts at the plant. ''For the first time, we knew what Tepco was debating, and what they knew,'' said one adviser, who asked not to be identified.
However, even Mr. Kan's supporters acknowledge that the move came too late.
''We should have moved faster,'' said Masanori Aritomi, a nuclear engineer at the Tokyo Institute of Technology and an adviser to Mr. Kan. Mr. Aritomi said that even with Mr. Hosono stationed inside Tepco, the company still did not disclose crucial information until mid-May, including final confirmation that three of the plant's four active reactors had melted down.
Strains With an Ally
The poor flow of information and ad hoc decision-making also strained Japan's relationship with the United States, which has about 50,000 military personnel stationed in Japan.
While Japan was quick to accept the American military's offers to help victims of the tsunami, the perception in Washington in the early days, that it was being rebuffed and misled in the unfolding nuclear disaster, had created ''a crisis in the United States-Japan alliance,'' said Akihisa Nagashima, a former vice minister of defense.
Within 48 hours of the earthquake, officials from the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission arrived in Tokyo, but they were unable to get information or even arrange meetings with Japanese counterparts. Meanwhile, Washington became convinced that Tokyo was understating the damage at the plant, based on readings that the Americans were getting around the plant from aircraft and satellites normally used to monitor North Korean nuclear tests, said one American official, who asked not to be named.
According to this official, the Obama administration made a decision ''to lean on the Kan government'' to share more information. On March 16, American officials, including the ambassador to Japan, John V. Roos, informed their Japanese counterparts that the United States would advise its citizens to evacuate an area 50 miles around the plant -- much larger than the 18-mile voluntary evacuation zone then established by Japan.
The Americans also began voluntary evacuations of nonessential personnel at their bases, and hinted at more drastic steps, even pulling out some essential military personnel, if Tokyo did not share more information, said this American official and Japanese officials, including Mr. Terada.
To show Washington and an increasingly anxious Japanese public that utmost efforts were being made, Mr. Kan deployed military helicopters to drop water into the reactors, Mr. Terada and other Japanese advisers said, adding they knew this would have only a limited effect on cooling them. On March 17, on live television, the helicopters dropped water from the air, though strong winds clearly blew much of the water off course.
Still, Mr. Terada said that Mr. Kan personally called President Obama to tell him the operation was a success. Later that day in Washington, Mr. Obama paid a visit to the Japanese Embassy to sign a book of condolences -- a gesture seen in the prime minister's office as a nod of approval by the American president.
Mr. Nagashima said the American demands to be better informed ultimately improved Japan's own response. On March 20, he brought a proposal to Mr. Kan for a daily meeting between American and Japanese officials to coordinate information and discuss responses to the nuclear accident.
The first such meeting was held a day later at the prime minister's office. Mr. Nagashima said the meetings lasted an hour and a half, and usually involved about 50 people, including officials from the American Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the United States Embassy and the military, as well as a far larger Japanese group made of political leaders, people from five ministries, from nuclear agencies and from Tepco. The meeting was led by Mr. Hosono, who by then had become the prime minister's point man on the nuclear response.
Mr. Nagashima said that even more important was what happened before the Americans arrived: the Japanese met an hour beforehand to discuss developments and to work out what they were going to tell the Americans. Mr. Nagashima said the meeting brought together the various ministries and Tepco, with politicians setting the agenda, for the first time since the crisis began.
''The Japanese side needed to gather everybody in the same room,'' Mr. Nagashima said. ''U.S. irritation became a chance for Japan to improve its disaster management.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Masao Yoshida, the power plant's manager, defied orders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO., VIA REUTERS) (A1)
FUKUSHIMA DAIICHI NUCLEAR POWER STATION: The power plant, damaged by a tsunami on March 11, became the site of the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl, as workers successfully warded off a meltdown, but could not prevent the release of considerable amounts of radioactive material. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
NAOTO KAN: Japan's prime minister won success as a political outsider, but his wariness of the cozy relationships between industry and bureaucrats discouraged communication at a crucial moment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARUYOSHI YAMAGUCHI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
GOSHI HOSONO: A trusted aide to Mr. Kan, he began monitoring operations at Tokyo Electric Power Company days after the disaster, which helped the government get control of the situation. (POOL PHOTO BY FRANCK ROBICHON)
MASAO YOSHIDA: The manager of the power plant, he ignored orders to stop pumping seawater into a reactor to cool it, an act of defiance that may have prevented many deaths. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER, VIA A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES)
 MASATAKA SHIMIZU: Tepco's president. His request that Tepco be allowed to withdraw its employees from the plant because of the danger alerted the prime minister to the full gravity of the disaster. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARUYOSHI YAMAGUCHI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A9) CHART: As Crisis Deepened, Communication Broke Down: After the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant was damaged by a tsunami, it was days before the government learned the severity of the problems. (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (93%); POWER PLANTS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%)

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (84%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (94%) JAPAN (94%); UKRAINE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



479 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; LOS ANGELES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: Tales of the Search for a Summer Job: Pressure Grows Over Job Search As the School Year Winds Down

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Crystal Casciano had tickets to the Los Angeles Sparks WNBA game. But to get there, she needed money to fill her car's gas tank. 
Sitting on the sofa with her family after school, she asked her mother for some cash. ''Just five dollars, to eat,'' she said.
Ms. Casciano, 17, and her two brothers are looking for summer work -- so far without any luck. The youth employment program that helped them find jobs at a summer camp last year has lost its financing; calls to local camps have proved fruitless; and her younger brother's trip to the mall, where he filled out a dozen job applications, has not yielded a single interview.
Ms. Casciano is just two weeks shy of her high school graduation and most classes are over, but the emaciated job market has stranded her inside her house. It is a plight all too familiar for teenagers in her San Fernando Valley neighborhood, northwest of downtown Los Angeles; none of her friends can find work, either.
''I worry it's going to be like this all summer, just sitting here bored with nothing to do but text or go on the computer,'' she said. ''I want to find a job, so I'll actually have the freedom to go places.''
Her boredom has become a source of concern for her mother, Irma Alberto, the family's lone breadwinner. Her older son, 23, has been unemployed for more than a year, and Ms. Alberto worries about keeping her children motivated.
''Crystal is a very active person, and I can see her enthusiasm going away now that she's not in school all the time,'' Ms. Alberto said nervously. ''I worry that if she doesn't find something else, she'll start falling through the cracks. That's what happened with her brother.''
Last summer, working as a counselor and bringing home several hundred dollars every week, Ms. Casciano took pride in helping ease the financial burden on her mom. She bought her own school clothes, paid for her basketball team gear and supplied her own spending money.
And she enjoyed working with younger children. ''I got really attached to them,'' she said. ''I think I want to teach elementary school.''
In the fall, she will start studying to be a teacher at nearby California State University, Northridge.
Her mother has taken a personal leave from her accountant job to help her children find work, calling camps for Crystal, driving her son to the mall and pressing them to keep looking.
Trying to encourage Crystal, Ms. Alberto turned down a second request for money.
''I feel like I need to guide my kids somewhere, need to put them back on track,'' she said. ''It's tough to motivate them because they know Mom is going to help them out.''
Ms. Casciano hoped her friends would buy her gas and a soft drink at the game. Some of their parents would probably give them cash.
''They understand,'' she said. ''I help them out when I have a little money. ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Crystal Casciano, left, with her sister Marie at home in the San Fernando Valley. Ms. Casciano had a job last summer but has not found one this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES SPARKS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



480 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ATLANTA; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Tales of the Search for a Summer Job: To Get His Job, He Just Worked Until Somebody Noticed

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- Some teenagers search for jobs by asking their parents' friends. Others submit resume after resume online. And then there is Cameron Stephens's approach: work until they pay you. 
Mr. Stephens, 17, a shy high school student in Atlanta, just started showing up at the job he wanted -- at a local farmers' market. He had never picked a vegetable, having always lived within city limits. He did not know what ''organic'' meant. But he drove by the weekly East Atlanta Village Farmers Market last summer and thought it ''seemed like a cool place to work.''
Instead of applying for a job, he took a bold strategy: he just started doing the work, without most farmers even knowing who he was. For two weeks, he set up tents, unloaded tomatoes and onions and shrugged off questions about what he was doing, until a supervisor confronted him.
''Finally, I just asked him, 'Do you want a job here or what?' '' recalled Judith Winfrey, an owner of Love is Love Farm, a small vegetable farm in Atlanta. By then, Mr. Stephens had proved his work ethic and dedication and was brought aboard as an intern.
That led to more jobs. This summer, though nearly all of his classmates are unemployed, Mr. Stephens is working at two weekly farmers' markets, planting vegetables at Mrs. Winfrey's farm and busing tables at a restaurant.
The work is sometimes degrading -- he has dressed in full-body costumes as a tomato, a strawberry and a carrot to advertise the market. And it is always hot: 90 degrees is a moderate day here in the summer.
But he has earned enough money -- $60 a day -- to buy himself a television, a laptop computer and a bright yellow motor scooter that he drives to his jobs. His advice to less fortunate job-seeking teens? Find a mentor.
''Once I found Judith, she just told people about me and I got work at other farmers' markets,'' he said. ''Now I have four jobs.''
Farming may be a trendy gig. But for Mr. Stephens, a self-described pizza and fried chicken kind of guy, it was as foreign as being an astronaut. The farm-to-table purists gave him grief for bringing a box of Popeye's to the market. And it took weeks before he could distinguish kale from kohlrabi, let alone eat either.
''It makes you appreciate where food comes from,'' he said, having recently been given fresh bacon and cheese croissants, boiled Georgia peanuts and milk and honey ice cream.
He is treated like a beloved younger brother at the market, a weekly gathering of two dozen produce vendors. He is razzed for being so shy but praised for his hard work and punctuality. He is saving his wages to buy a motor scooter for his mother, who is a single parent.
''Most friends are sitting around the house, going to the mall, getting money from their parents,'' Mr. Stephens said. ''Sometimes I'm burning up in that carrot costume. But I just like having a job.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One of Cameron Stephens's jobs involves wearing produce suits for a farmers' market. Often the temperature outside exceeds 90 degrees, but ''I just like having a job,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (76%); ICE CREAM (76%); CHEESE (75%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (75%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (71%); RESTAURANTS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



481 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Elections For Jordan, But No Date

BYLINE: By RANYA KADRI and ISABEL KERSHNER; Ranya Kadri reported from Amman, and Isabel Kershner from Jerusalem.

 BODY:
AMMAN, Jordan -- King Abdullah II of Jordan announced on Sunday that the government would in the future be elected, not appointed, responding to a demand of protesters calling for democratic change. 
But the statement did not generate immediate excitement among pro-democracy campaigners in Jordan, largely because it failed to specify any timetable for the change.
Jordanian political activists, inspired by the so-called Arab Spring movement that began in Tunisia, have called for curbs on the sweeping powers of the monarch, who appoints the country's prime minister and cabinet and can dissolve Parliament.
In a televised speech broadcast live, the first such address since protests broke out here six months ago, King Abdullah said that new political legislation should ''guarantee the fairness and transparency of the electoral process through a mechanism that will lead to a Parliament with active political party representation.''
He added that the legislation should allow ''the formation of governments based on parliamentary majority and political party manifestos in the future.''
A national dialogue committee, formed as a result of protests, has proposed changes to the election law, and the king said he expected the next parliamentary elections to be conducted according to legislation compatible with its recommendations. He did not say when those elections would be held or how the law was to be reworked to satisfy complaints it was designed to prevent opposition from gaining power.
Labib Kamhawi, a political analyst, said that the speech was ''good on some points and weak on others.'' He emphasized that the king had committed himself only to elected governments eventually.
Apparently taking aim at some of his opponents, the king warned against what he described as ''the dictates of the street,'' the deterioration of political and media discourse, and he emphasized his ''opposition to chaos that leads to destruction.''
King Abdullah, an important American ally, has also been contending with an economic crisis. The protests, which have ebbed in recent weeks, have represented the first challenge to his rule.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%) JORDAN (96%); TUNISIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



482 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Instant Ratings: Just Add Cash

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER and BILL CARTER

 BODY:
Before the subjects of headlining news stories agree to a television interview these days, some have one question: how much money can I make?
ABC and NBC, embroiled in a fight for viewers in the mornings, are increasingly in the news for their willingness to pay thousands of dollars to gain exclusive access to news subjects.
The practice was especially visible last week when ABC News ran an exclusive interview with Meagan Broussard, one of the women who was sent lewd photos by Anthony Weiner, after the network paid her about $15,000 for photos. ABC said its extensive reporting, including the interview, led to Mr. Weiner's admissions about his online behavior.
Also last week, ABC announced that Diane Sawyer had secured the first-ever interview with Jaycee Lee Dugard, the young woman held captive for 18 years in California. ABC declared that it had not paid any fee for the interview, but last year, according to a longtime ABC News executive aware of the deal, the network paid a six-figure sum for rights to home movies of Ms. Dugard. 
The networks provide perks besides paychecks, too: When David Goldman, a subject in a custody battle over his son, brought his son back to the United States from Brazil last year, he was provided both a ride on a private jet by NBC and accommodations at Universal Studios, an amusement park partly owned by NBC's parent company. Mr. Goldman's network of choice for interviews was NBC, and he mentioned being ''grateful'' for their support.
More recently, a high school student in Washington State who faked a pregnancy was persuaded to appear on NBC in May in part because the network placed money in a trust fund for her future education.
Network representatives say their only payments are licensing fees for photographs and videos, not for interviews. In the case of the high school student, NBC said, ''the video of the moment when she revealed to her class that she was faking was essential to her story,'' the ''Today'' show executive producer Jim Bell said, adding, ''The amount was reasonable.''
Similarly, James Goldston, the executive producer of ABC's morning show, ''Good Morning America,'' said the fees paid were relatively small and called the licensing ''a very small part of the work that we do.''
In other interviews last week, the licensing distinction was glossed over -- and even laughed at -- by current and former network employees and executives, some of whom said the practice was at best a questionable breach of ethics.
''The real issue is: by paying for interviews, are you changing the news?'' said David Westin, who was the president of ABC News until last winter, when many licensing deals were done. The economic tradeoff rarely makes sense, Mr. Westin said, in a time of budget and staff cuts at network news divisions.
''If you could prove that by spending $20,000 you would make $70,000, O.K., I can justify that,'' Mr. Westin said. ''But I'll be doggone if you could go through any of those payments, trace them through and see if it made any sense.''
The Poynter Institute, the journalism ethics group, said last week that the payments corrupted journalism. The group suggested that the trend could be reversed if networks would agree to pay license fees only to people not involved in the story, like eyewitnesses who happen to record a news event.
The practice of paying for interviews is common in Britain. In the United States, magazines like Us Weekly pay for wedding and baby photographs of celebrities and are often granted interviews at the same time, and tabloid shows like ''TMZ'' and ''The Insider'' pay for stories and interviews. But they are generally not held to the same standards as the network news divisions, all of which have ethics policies against paying for interviews.
So the networks pay for photos, videos, hotel rooms -- even special events, as NBC did in 2007, when its entertainment division paid an estimated $2.5 million for the rights to the ''Concert for Diana,'' putting its news division in line for exclusive interviews with Prince William and Prince Harry.
Some news executives said that the subjects of interviews were learning how much their stories were worth. ''Money is being asked for more and more of the time,'' said Jeff Fager, the chairman of CBS News, who denounced the practice. ''If you're in the business of having to pay people to get a story, it can't be worth it,'' he said.
CBS has never been a serious competitor in morning television, where producers at NBC's ''Today'' and ABC's second-place ''G.M.A.'' regularly end up in bidding wars for deals for candid and exclusive interviews.
''It's been like this for years, this hyper-competition,'' said one participant in the morning show wars, who asked not to be identified out of concern that commenting openly might jeopardize his job. ''But now we've had a huge management change at NBC, a new news chief at ABC, and changes in producers and the talent lineups of the morning shows. That has amped it up.''
Once an interview is secured, a network like ABC can spread it around widely; in one prominent case, when Casey Anthony's daughter, Caylee, went missing three years ago, ABC paid $200,000 for videos of Caylee, which were broadcast on ''G.M.A.,'' ''World News,'' ''Nightline'' and the prime time newsmagazine ''20/20.'' The licensing fee found its way to the defense fund for Ms. Anthony, who stands accused of killing Caylee.
NBC also devoted prime-time attention to Mr. Goldman's case. Mr. Bell, the executive producer of ''Today,'' said of the private plane from Brazil, ''That was simply a matter of getting him and his son out of there.'' NBC people also needed a ride home.
Mr. Bell said ''Today'' had licensed material in the past for stories, but ''we're talking about in the vicinity of a few thousand dollars,'' he said, ''not this nonsense of six figures for what everybody understands is the hope to get an interview.''
He said that ''Today'' and ''G.M.A.'' had ''different ideas'' about ''what an acceptable dollar amount is.''
Mr. Goldston responded, ''Jim always comes out and says something similar to this whenever they don't win, which is quite often these days.''
To that, Mr. Bell replied, ''We are very comfortable letting ABC have the bookings that require a checkbook.''
For ABC, there has long been frustration in both the news division and the company's top management over the seemingly unshakeable ratings dominance of NBC's ''Today.'' ''That's why ABC is spending so much money on this kind of thing,'' said one longtime ABC News executive, who asked not to be identified commenting about the network's other managers. Disputing that, Mr. Goldston said that the licensing was ''happening less, and for smaller amounts of money.''
The networks say they generally disclose on the air when they license photos or videos, but they do not reveal the price or discuss how the payments affected coverage.
Occasionally the payments can embarrass the news division. Last month, ''G.M.A.'' broadcast a story about a woman who claimed that she was injecting her 8-year-old daughter with Botox to eliminate wrinkles before child beauty pageants. ABC was said to have agreed to pay $10,000 to intermediaries who set up the interview, but the woman later said the story was a hoax. Asked about the payment, Mr. Goldston said, ''I think it remains on hold''; an ABC News spokesman followed up Sunday and said no money had been handed over.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about fees paid by television networks for exclusive access to news subjects, misstated the title of Jeff Fager, a CBS executive. He is the chairman of CBS News, not its president.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With his son Sean, David Goldman boarded a private jet paid for by NBC in 2009. ABC paid Meagan Broussard $15,000 before her interview about Representative Anthony Weiner's online behavior. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VANDERLEI ALMEIDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 ABC NEWS) (B10) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (87%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WOMEN (76%); ETHICS (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (74%); ANTHONY WEINER SCANDAL (71%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); PARENT COMPANIES (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (87%); DIANE SAWYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



483 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: An Uphill Battle on Oil Dependency

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Tony Knowles helped make Sarah Palin a political celebrity by losing the Alaska governor's race to her five years ago. Now he is seeking another legacy.
As president of the National Energy Policy Institute, Mr. Knowles aims to kick-start Washington's stalled dialogue on curbing the nation's oil habit. But because his potential solutions include higher gas taxes, his odds of success are about the same as defeating Ms. Palin in a publicity contest.
''So many people who care about energy are disappointed or discouraged,'' said Mr. Knowles, below, a Democrat. ''We just want the debate to start again.'' 
That's the bleak landscape facing President Obama on his top unfulfilled policy goal.
He has long advocated sweeping policy changes in the name of energy independence and action against climate change. In his first two years in office, he wanted an economy-wide curb on the carbon dioxide emissions that scientists say fuel global warming.
Even as Mr. Obama won an economic stimulus package, a national health care system and more aggressive Wall Street regulations, that ''cap and trade'' goal proved elusive. House Democrats passed a version, only to watch it die in the Senate and then lose their majority to Republicans.
In this year's State of the Union address, Mr. Obama proposed a different approach: a federal standard requiring 80 percent of the nation's electricity to come from ''clean energy'' sources by 2035.
But Democrats concede that Congress won't pass one anytime soon - not while such ideas remain vulnerable to the charge that they will make a weak economy weaker. ''The term 'job killer,' '' observed James Carville, President Bill Clinton's onetime strategist, ''kills anything.''
Mr. Obama and his allies might have expected to make more headway. His Republican predecessor, George W. Bush, declared, ''We have a serious problem: America is addicted to oil.'' His 2008 Republican opponent, Senator John McCain of Arizona, also backed a cap on carbon emissions.
So have some of Mr. Obama's potential 2012 adversaries, including two former governors, Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota and Jon Huntsman of Utah, though both have backed away from that position.
When Mitt Romney was governor of Massachusetts, his administration helped create a greenhouse gas emissions curb for Northeastern states before he temporarily blocked his state's participation. But electoral politics, economic pressures and catastrophic events have overwhelmed the chances for bipartisan agreement.
A Spill and a Tsunami
The 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico buffeted Mr. Obama's plan to coax Republican cooperation with expanded drilling. One source of ''clean energy'' embraced by both Mr. Obama and Republicans, nuclear power, was tarnished by the crisis in Japan this year.
Most significant, there is no escaping the fact that shifting energy consumption involves short-term costs few politicians want responsibility for with unemployment at 9.1 percent.
The vagaries of gas prices have not helped. Low prices in 2009-10 took urgency away from calls for change; high prices now, which should make alternative energy more competitive and easier to promote, make cash-strapped Americans feel more aggrieved. ''We cannot keep going from shock when gas prices go up to trance when they go back down,'' Mr. Obama said this year.
So far, the nation has responded as it has to every president since Richard M. Nixon: Yes, we can.
Making Progress
Congressional resistance does not mean Mr. Obama cannot make progress toward his energy and environmental goals. In fact, he has.
The failure of cap and trade notwithstanding, the recession itself helped cut carbon dioxide emissions in 2009 through reduced economy activity, and Mr. Obama used his regulatory authority to significantly increase auto fuel efficiency standards through 2016 with the industry's assent.
Soon the administration will propose higher standards through 2025. Meanwhile, the government has sought to foster additional shifts through window stickers on new cars assessing their fuel costs and environmental impact.
''There is an under-the-radar transformation under way,'' driven by consumer choice rather than legislation, said Dan Weiss, a former Sierra Club official now at the liberal Center for American Progress. He cited government data showing that, over all, carbon dioxide emissions in 2010 were 6.5 percent below 2005 levels.
Mr. Obama vows to use his executive authority to curb emissions by power plants, which rely on coal for about half the nation's electricity. But given resistance from Republicans and coal-state Democrats, few expect his approach to yield the results that cap and trade or other means of ''pricing'' carbon emissions would.
That leaves advocates of more far-reaching change, like Mr. Knowles, struggling to keep the issue alive. Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, who backed energy and climate legislation that failed in 2010, is also exploring a campaign to raise awareness.
But barring some major political shift, ''we're not going to get the big thing,'' said Kathleen Frangione, a former Kerry adviser on climate change. ''And that's a disappointment.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); OIL SPILLS (76%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); HEALTH CARE (66%); FUEL TAX (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



484 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Said to Turn Back North Korea Missile Shipment

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- The United States Navy intercepted a North Korean ship it suspected of carrying missile technology to Myanmar two weeks ago and, after a standoff at sea and several days of diplomatic pressure from Washington and Asia nations, forced the vessel to return home, according to several senior American officials.
Washington made no announcement about the operation, which paralleled a similar, far more public confrontation with North Korea two years ago. But in response to questions about what appears to be a growing trade in missiles and missile parts between North Korea and Myanmar -- two of the world's most isolated governments -- American officials have described the episode as an example of how they can use a combination of naval power and diplomatic pressure to enforce United Nations sanctions imposed after the North's last nuclear test, in 2009. 
It was a rare victory: a similar shipment of suspected missile parts made it to Myanmar last year before American officials could act. Despite the Obama administration's efforts to squeeze North Korea with both economic and trade sanctions, there are continuing reports of sophisticated missile technology exchanges, some of it by air, between North Korea and Iran, among other nations.
North Korea, aware that shipments leaving the country are under increased scrutiny, has found a profitable trading partner in the authoritarian government in Myanmar.
The extent of that trade is unclear to American intelligence agencies. Two years ago, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton publicly expressed suspicions that Myanmar was attempting to purchase nuclear weapons technology, but it recently said it was too poor to use such technology. And the evidence has been scant at best. (In 2009, India inspected a North Korean ship that was believed to be carrying equipment for a nuclear reactor to Myanmar, but quickly discovered that its contents were legal.)
The most recent episode began after American officials tracked a North Korean cargo ship, the M/V Light, that was believed to have been involved in previous illegal shipments. Suspecting that it was carrying missile components, they dispatched a Navy vessel, the destroyer McCampbell, to track it.
''This case had an interesting wrinkle: the ship was North Korean, but it was flagged in Belize,'' one American official said, meaning it was registered in that Central American nation, perhaps to throw off investigators.
But Belize is a member of the Proliferation Security Initiative, an effort begun by President George W. Bush's administration to sign up countries around the world to interdict suspected unconventional weapons. It is an effort that, like the military and C.I.A. drone programs, Mr. Obama has adopted, and one of the rare areas where he has praised his predecessor.
According to American officials, the authorities in Belize gave permission to the United States to inspect the ship.
On May 26, somewhere south of Shanghai, the McCampbell caught up with the cargo ship and hailed it, asking to board the vessel under the authority given by Belize. Four times, the North Koreans refused.
As in the 2009 case, which involved the North Korean vessel the Kong Nam 1, the White House was unwilling to forcibly board the ship in international waters, fearing a possible firefight and, in the words of one official, a spark ''that could ignite the Korean peninsula.'' Moreover, the Americans did not have definitive proof of what was in the containers -- and a mistake would have been embarrassing.
''There is always a chance that the North is setting us up for a raid that they know will find nothing,'' one official said. ''So we want to make sure we don't fall into a trap.''
By happenstance, a group of senior officials from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations -- including a representative from Myanmar -- was in Washington while the slow-speed chase was occurring 8,000 miles away. On May 27, when the group visited the Old Executive Office Building opposite the White House, Gary Samore, the president's top nuclear adviser, addressed the officials, urging Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia to fully join the nonproliferation effort.
He then surprised the Asian officials by telling them he had a ''sensitive subject'' to raise, and described the American suspicions, providing the group with a picture of the ship on its way to Myanmar. He reminded them that under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1874, which was passed in response to the North Korean nuclear test in 2009, its vessels are to be inspected if ''reasonable grounds'' exist to suspect that weapons are being exported.
''The Burmese official in the room protested that we were making accusations,'' said one American official familiar with the exchange. Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, has denied stockpiling missiles or buying parts from North Korea. It repeated those denials during recent visits to the country by a midlevel State Department official and by Senator John McCain.
American officials dismiss those denials, pointing to years of evidence of missile-related purchases during both the Bush and Obama administrations. But they concede they are mystified about Myanmar's motives. The missiles that they believed were aboard the M/V Light have a range of about 350 miles, meaning they could hit parts of India, China, Thailand or Laos -- all unlikely targets.
The message apparently got across. A few days later, long before approaching Myanmar, the cargo ship stopped dead in the water. Then it turned back to its home port, tracked by American surveillance planes and satellites, and suffering engine trouble along the way.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The presidential adviser Gary Samore lobbied Asian nations to pressure North Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERTO JAYME/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NAVIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (71%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); MYANMAR (96%); BELIZE (93%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



485 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Saves Money

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Every once in a while a politician comes up with an idea that's so bad, so wrongheaded, that you're almost grateful. For really bad ideas can help illustrate the extent to which policy discourse has gone off the rails.
And so it was with Senator Joseph Lieberman's proposal, released last week, to raise the age for Medicare eligibility from 65 to 67. 
Like Republicans who want to end Medicare as we know it and replace it with (grossly inadequate) insurance vouchers, Mr. Lieberman describes his proposal as a way to save Medicare. It wouldn't actually do that. But more to the point, our goal shouldn't be to ''save Medicare,'' whatever that means. It should be to ensure that Americans get the health care they need, at a cost the nation can afford.
And here's what you need to know: Medicare actually saves money -- a lot of money -- compared with relying on private insurance companies. And this in turn means that pushing people out of Medicare, in addition to depriving many Americans of needed care, would almost surely end up increasing total health care costs.
The idea of Medicare as a money-saving program may seem hard to grasp. After all, hasn't Medicare spending risen dramatically over time? Yes, it has: adjusting for overall inflation, Medicare spending per beneficiary rose more than 400 percent from 1969 to 2009.
But inflation-adjusted premiums on private health insurance rose more than 700 percent over the same period. So while it's true that Medicare has done an inadequate job of controlling costs, the private sector has done much worse. And if we deny Medicare to 65- and 66-year-olds, we'll be forcing them to get private insurance -- if they can -- that will cost much more than it would have cost to provide the same coverage through Medicare.
By the way, we have direct evidence about the higher costs of private insurance via the Medicare Advantage program, which allows Medicare beneficiaries to get their coverage through the private sector. This was supposed to save money; in fact, the program costs taxpayers substantially more per beneficiary than traditional Medicare.
And then there's the international evidence. The United States has the most privatized health care system in the advanced world; it also has, by far, the most expensive care, without gaining any clear advantage in quality for all that spending. Health is one area in which the public sector consistently does a better job than the private sector at controlling costs.
Indeed, as the economist (and former Reagan adviser) Bruce Bartlett points out, high U.S. private spending on health care, compared with spending in other advanced countries, just about wipes out any benefit we might receive from our relatively low tax burden. So where's the gain from pushing seniors out of an admittedly expensive system, Medicare, into even more expensive private health insurance?
Wait, it gets worse. Not every 65- or 66-year-old denied Medicare would be able to get private coverage -- in fact, many would find themselves uninsured. So what would these seniors do?
Well, as the health economists Austin Frakt and Aaron Carroll document, right now Americans in their early 60s without health insurance routinely delay needed care, only to become very expensive Medicare recipients once they reach 65. This pattern would be even stronger and more destructive if Medicare eligibility were delayed. As a result, Mr. Frakt and Mr. Carroll suggest, Medicare spending might actually go up, not down, under Mr. Lieberman's proposal.
O.K., the obvious question: If Medicare is so much better than private insurance, why didn't the Affordable Care Act simply extend Medicare to cover everyone? The answer, of course, was interest-group politics: realistically, given the insurance industry's power, Medicare for all wasn't going to pass, so advocates of universal coverage, myself included, were willing to settle for half a loaf. But the fact that it seemed politically necessary to accept a second-best solution for younger Americans is no reason to start dismantling the superior system we already have for those 65 and over.
Now, none of what I have said should be taken as a reason to be complacent about rising health care costs. Both Medicare and private insurance will be unsustainable unless there are major cost-control efforts -- the kinds of efforts that are actually in the Affordable Care Act, and which Republicans demagogued with cries of ''death panels.''
The point, however, is that privatizing health insurance for seniors, which is what Mr. Lieberman is in effect proposing -- and which is the essence of the G.O.P. plan -- hurts rather than helps the cause of cost control. If we really want to hold down costs, we should be seeking to offer Medicare-type programs to as many Americans as possible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); EVIDENCE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



486 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Obama Seeks To Win Back Wall St. Cash

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A few weeks before announcing his re-election campaign, President Obama convened two dozen Wall Street executives, many of them longtime donors, in the White House's Blue Room.
The guests were asked for their thoughts on how to speed the economic recovery, then the president opened the floor for over an hour on hot issues like hedge fund regulation and the deficit.
Mr. Obama, who enraged many financial industry executives a year and a half ago by labeling them ''fat cats'' and criticizing their bonuses, followed up the meeting with phone calls to those who could not attend. 
The event, organized by the Democratic National Committee, kicked off an aggressive push by Mr. Obama to win back the allegiance of one of his most vital sources of campaign cash -- in part by trying to convince Wall Street that his policies, far from undercutting the investor class, have helped bring banks and financial markets back to health.
Last month, Mr. Obama's campaign manager, Jim Messina, traveled to New York for back-to-back meetings with Wall Street donors, ending at the home of Marc Lasry, a prominent hedge fund manager, to court donors close to Mr. Obama's onetime rival, Hillary Rodham Clinton. And Mr. Obama will return to New York this month to dine with bankers, hedge fund executives and private equity investors at the Upper East Side restaurant Daniel.
''The first goal was to get recognition that the administration has led the economy from an unimaginably difficult place to where we are today,'' said Blair W. Effron, an investment banker closely involved in Mr. Obama's fund-raising efforts. ''Now the second goal is to turn that into support.''
The president's top financial industry supporters say they are confident that the support Mr. Obama needs will ultimately be there, despite the financial industry's unhappiness over his efforts to tighten regulation of their businesses. But it is clear that those supporters will have to work much harder to win over the financial services industry than they did in 2008, before Wall Street's bust, the subsequent clashes over policy and the sometimes bitter personal differences that lingered afterward.
Executives at large investment banks, a group that gave generously to Mr. Obama in his last campaign, are remaining on the sidelines for now. Only a small handful of such donors have appeared in Mr. Obama's joint campaign filings with the Democratic National Committee, though officials there said more would appear in the coming weeks.
Some traditional heavy hitters in Democratic Wall Street fund-raising have stepped out of the game. They include Maureen White and her husband, Steven L. Rattner, a founder of the Quadrangle Group, whose Fifth Avenue living room was a critical conduit between Wall Street and Democratic candidates in the years before Mr. Rattner joined the Obama administration to help restructure the auto industry. The couple did not resume their old role after Mr. Rattner left government, and he was caught up last year in an investigation into kickbacks to New York's state pension fund.
And even as some criticize the president for listening too closely, they say, to Wall Street on issues like the 2008 bailout and financial regulation, he has suffered some unusually public defections and criticism by some former Wall Street supporters, who view his policies and rhetoric as unfair to their industry. Many are Republicans whose support last time around burnished his image as a post-partisan problem solver.
And as Mr. Obama seeks to rebuild, Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who is seeking the Republican presidential nomination, is using his background as a venture capital executive and his policy proposals to woo financial-industry donors.
Last week, Mr. Romney held three fund-raisers in Greenwich, Conn., and New York, including a reception hosted by Anthony Scaramucci, a hedge fund manager who donated to Mr. Obama in 2008. Mr. Scaramucci said he wanted a president who embodied pragmatism and middle-of-the-road solutions. In 2008, that candidate was Mr. Obama, he said; today, it is Mr. Romney.
''He seemed like he was going to be a transformative candidate,'' Mr. Scaramucci said of Mr. Obama in an interview. ''I'm really not an ideological guy, and I think the country right now needs more practical, less partisan people.''
To offset those defections, Mr. Obama's campaign has deployed a corps of loyal Wall Street supporters who have fanned out to defend the president's record and stoke fatigued donors. They include Robert Wolf, the chief executive of UBS Group Americas; the hedge fund managers Orin S. Kramer and Eric Mindich; and Mark T. Gallogly, a co-founder of Centerbridge Partners.
Mr. Mindich and Mr. Wolf were among those at the White House meeting, along with some prominent names from the hedge fund world: James G. Dinan of York Capital Management, Glenn Dubin of Highbridge Capital Management and Paul Tudor Jones.
Members of the president's economic team and his chief of staff, William M. Daley, a former banking executive, have been more active in reaching out to Wall Street executives about policy issues, donors said, along with Mr. Messina and Patrick Gaspard, the D.N.C.'s executive director.
The campaign and its allies are also seeking to recruit a new group of high-level bundlers, supporters who recruit other donors. They include Antonio Weiss, the global head of investment banking at Lazard; Charles Myers, a senior managing director at Evercore Partners; and James E. Staley, the head of JPMorgan Chase's investment bank.
The campaign is also courting prominent Wall Street figures who could serve as Mr. Obama's ambassadors at firms known for leaning Republican: Lenard B. Tessler, a managing director at Cerberus Capital who donated to Mr. Romney and Mrs. Clinton in 2008, and Hamilton E. James, the president of the private equity behemoth Blackstone.
''Fund-raising is certainly different than last time around in '07,'' Mr. Wolf said. ''Not everybody on Wall Street agrees with the financial regulatory legislation. But as someone who witnessed firsthand the Lehman weekend at the New York Fed, there are certainly many of us in the financial services community, myself included, that fully support smart reforms.''
Still, there is skepticism. One Democratic financier invited to this month's dinner, who asked for anonymity because he did not want to anger the White House, said it was ironic that the same president who once criticized bankers as ''fat cats'' would now invite them to dine at Daniel, where the six-course tasting menu runs to $195 a person.
The donor declined the invitation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%)

COMPANY: QUADRANGLE GROUP LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JIM MESSINA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



487 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.04 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.10 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.01 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Florida Department of Transportation, $148.9 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Lexington-Fayette County, Ky., $145.8 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Springdale, Ark., School District, $135.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Arlington County, Va., $67 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
New Jersey Educational Facilities Authority, $250 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Arlington County, Va., $127 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.
California Infrastructure and Development Bank, $150 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
Eagle Mountain-Saginaw, Tex., Independent School District, $55 million of school building bonds. FirstSouthwest.
Florida Housing Finance Corporation, $50 million of mortgage revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, $675.2 million of power system revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency, $50 million of multifamily housing bonds. Bank of America.
Michigan Strategic Fund, $125 million of limited obligation revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
New York City Water Finance Authority, $503.9 million of water and sewer system general resolution revenue bonds. Morgan Keegan.
New York Thruway Authority, $440 million of general highway and bridge trust bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
New York State Environmental Facilities Corporation, $200 million of refinancing revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Palm Beach County, Fla., School Board, $111.4 million of certificates of participation. Morgan Stanley.
Puerto Rico Facilities Financing Authority, $101.6 million of hospital revenue and refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
San Francisco Unified School District, $90 million of debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities.
Texas University System, $88.1 million of university revenue refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.
Utah, $634.8 million of general obligation bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Washington State Health Care Facilities Authority, $83.6 million of revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); SCHOOL BONDS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (66%); HOSPITALS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); FLORIDA HOUSING FINANCE CORP (68%); LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER (67%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (65%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); MASSACHUSETTS HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (54%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (67%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011



488 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: Qaddafi's Latest Gambit, a Chess Match

BYLINE: JOHN F. BURNS


HIGHLIGHT: Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's latest appearance was at a chess board, across from a Russian Buddhist millionaire who has called chess "a gift from extraterrestrial civilizations."

 BODY:
TRIPOLI, Libya - If not exactly a chess match for the ages, it was at least a deliciously emblematic contest that caught something of the curious, and often deeply eccentric, world of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, a man who has been known to want to pitch a tent for his comfort in Manhattan's Central Park, along with a host of other behaviors unusual in a national leader.
Captured on Libyan state television, the match was played on Sunday in Tripoli between Colonel Qaddafi and the president of the World Chess Federation, a Russian politician and one-time goat-and-sheep-herder by the name of Kirsan Ilyumzhinov. 
No slouch himself when it comes to eccentricity, Mr. Ilyumzhinov, who since 1995 has been head of the chess organization, known as FIDE, has a reputation at home, beyond his activity as a world-traveling promoter of chess, as a believer in cosmic aliens, and as a disciple of the view, as he told The New York Times in an interview in 2010, that chess is "a gift from extraterrestrial civilizations."
Chess has had more than its fair share of eccentrics - Bobby Fischer comes to mind - but few matches have been played in more improbable circumstances. 
Among the foreign press troupe currently quartered in a five-star Tripoli hotel, the buzzword as the tape was played and replayed on TV sets in the lobby and garden patio on Monday was "wacko." Or to put it more gently: Here was the Libyan leader, nearly three months into a NATO bombing campaign that lately has been focused unapologetically on killing him, sitting down calmly and pensively for a game that prizes, above all, the ability of exponents to concentrate - to put aside the mundane distractions of life and ponder the complexities on the board before them. 
Yet perhaps it wasn't so wacko after all. Pawn, rook, castle, bishop, king - the tactical possibilities numberless, the art of survival in beleaguered circumstances paramount, the sheer rapture of outwitting an opponent from an inferior position, all of this has made chess a favored game down the ages for emperors and monarchs, for courtiers and commanders, for all those who play for the highest stakes on life's big board. 
And, make no mistake, Colonel Qaddafi is now in the tightest of corners - the wit and cunning that have enabled him to remain supreme for 42 years in the bearpit of Arab politics is being tested as never before, and the challenge involves nothing less than triumph or death. One wrong move, or one right one, or at least a series of good or bad choices, could spell the difference between an improbable survival and an ignominious end.
And indeed, the images from the Sunday afternoon match showed a man who appeared to be enjoying himself, or at least was capable of mild amusement. Colonel Qaddafi looked sombre enough as he arrived for the encounter, in oversize sunglasses, and dressed in his favored tribal garb, with a Bedouin blanket thrown over his shoulders. It was not clear from the TV recording - and perhaps it was not meant to be - who won the match, whether Colonel Qaddafi playing the white pieces, or Mr. Ilyumzhinov with the gold.
The Libyan leader took his time, finger to his forehead, as he contemplated his moves on the ornate wooden chessboard; the Russian was swifter and more casual. But the body language, the laughter and the handshakes at the end suggested there had been an outcome, and that Colonel Qaddafi had not found it too foreboding. 
In any case, he walked away with a fold-up chess set proffered as a gift by his guest, perhaps something to pass the hours of the fugitive's existence he is now obliged to live under the NATO bombs. (A day later, Mr. Ilyumzhinov told Russia's Interfax news agency the match "ended in a draw. I offered the drawn game. After all it is impolite to win when you're a guest.")
People in Tripoli who claim inside knowledge of the matter have been saying for the past two or three weeks that Colonel Qaddafi, with his Bab al-Aziziya command compound and its network of underground bunkers and tunnels obliterated by NATO bombs and missiles, and even his tented desert camp outside the capital reduced to ashes, has been forced to move almost hour by hour, seeking sanctuary in hospitals, schools, museums and the homes of trusted regime insiders. 
One common story has him abandoning his armored Mercedes-Benz limousines for much humbler transport, much in the style of Saddam Hussein before the first Gulf war, when the Iraqi leader was said to have ridden about Baghdad in the back of a battered taxi.
None of this was able to be confirmed, at least for a Western reporter, but the chess match did offer a few hints. For one thing, the room in which the match was played appeared to have been hastily, and only sparsely, furnished, with a scattering of sofas and chairs and little on the walls but a large black-and-white photograph of Colonel Qaddafi wearing a military uniform, in favored heroic pose. Ornate - the Qaddafi style before the Libyan revolt began in February - the setting was not. 
The flat-screen television set - a fixture in every TV appearance the Libyan leader has made in recent weeks, always set to the state TV channel, apparently to demonstrate that the video of the colonel meeting and greeting visitors is contemporary, and not pulled from an archive - sat propped awkwardly atop a marble-topped table, tilted back against the wall, college-dorm style, as if nobody had time to nail a bracket into the wall.
For the rest, the meeting provided armchair analysts rich opportunities for speculation. Had Mr. Ilyumzhinov come to Tripoli as a mediator, with a proposal from the Russian government that could lure Colonel Qaddafi into abandoning power and fleeing into exile? The Russian Interfax news agency hinted at something of the kind when it said that Colonel Qaddafi had used the meeting to reaffirm that he had no intention of leaving Libya, the official position that is restated emphatically here at every turn. 
My colleague Andrew Kramer, from the Moscow bureau of The New York Times, notes in a background message that Mr. Ilyumzhinov hails from a poor region of nomadic herders on the steppes of southern Russia, Kalmykia, an upbringing that would give him more than a little in common with Colonel Qaddafi, who was born into a family of dirt-poor Bedouin tribesmen hardened by centuries of survival as goat and camel herders in the Libyan desert.*
Like Colonel Qaddafi, the Russian rose from humble circumstances to become president of Kalmykia from 1993 to 2010. Again, like the Libyan leader, who is facing indictment by the International Criminal Court for war crimes, and has a long history of presiding over a government with a record of "disappearing," torturing and murdering its opponents, Mr. Ilyumzhinov has his own dark past. As Mr. Kramer recalled, a journalist in Kalmykia who criticized the leader was assassinated in 1998, though Mr. Ilyunzhinov denied any involvement.
On top of this, Mr. Ilyunzhinov has been a frequent visitor to Libya, and organized a chess championship here in 2004. "Though dismissed as a nut in Russia and indeed by his critics in the chess community because of his continual talk of aliens, he does have a long relationship with Colonel Qaddafi," Mr. Kramer says.
The Russian's ostensible reason for coming to Tripoli was to thank the Qaddafi government for promoting chess in Libyan schools, a mission that might have been deferred for more propitious times. So, odd couple that they made on Sunday, it is not beyond the realm of possibility that the two chess players had reasons of state, as well as recreational purposes, for their match. 
That, at least, was the conclusion of Gazeta.ru, a Russian online newspaper with ties to President Dmitri A. Medvedev, who announced after a meeting with President Obama and other NATO leaders in Deauville, France, 10 days ago that Russia was backing NATO's call for Colonel Qaddafi to go into exile. "The head of FIDE is fulfilling a role as an intermediary in the resolution of the conflict in Libya," the newspaper said.
That leads to the expert opinion of Sergei A. Karaganov, dean of the department of international economics and foreign affairs at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow, who told Mr. Kramer in a telephone interview that Mr. Ilyumzhinov "is a publicity hound and could have gone to Tripoli without official backing just hoping to get in the news." 
All the same, Mr. Karganov did not rule out the possibility that Mr. Ilyumzhinov was playing a backdoor role in relaying Russia's message to Colonel Qaddafi that he should step down. Mr. Karaganov also said: "It is plausible, because they are both of the same stripe. Mr. Ilyumzhinov is a soft and scaled-down version of Qaddafi himself. He is known for various and bizarre endeavors."
*Readers might also be interested to know that Kalmykia is the only Buddhist region in Europe. The people are descendants on the Mongols, who, according to legend, were left behind when most of their fellows retreated to western Asia in the late 18th century. According to an account in "The Lonely Planet Guide to Russia," in 1771, under pressure from encroaching Russian and German settlers, the Kalmyks planned to evacuate the region en masse on what their religion led them to believe would be an auspicious winter's night. When the night came, however, "the ice on the Volga was not strong enough for those on the western bank to cross the river, so 20,000 out of 160,000 families stayed," and Kalmykia was eventually absorbed by Russia.

        
Video of Obama and Cameron on Libya
        
Qaddafi Calls From 'a Place You Cannot Reach'
        
Qaddafi's Visit to Hotel Puzzles Journalists
        
Updates on the Unrest in Syria and Libya
        
Text of New Qaddafi Letter to Obama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (75%); RELIGION (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); BOMBINGS (64%) Chess; Kalmykia; Libya; Muammar el-Qaddafi; Ilyumzhinov, Kirsan N; Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); World Chess Federation; africa; Middle East; News; world

ORGANIZATION: World Chess Federation

PERSON: Ilyumzhinov, Kirsan N

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); AFRICA (88%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%) Libya

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



489 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: The Job to End All Others

BYLINE: CELIA WATSON SEUPEL


HIGHLIGHT: I was thrilled that my mother wanted to move in with me. Looking back, though, I realize it was the beginning of the end of my job.

 BODY:
I was in the middle of a business meeting when my 17-year-old son called the office and told the receptionist it was urgent. 
"What?" I demanded when I picked up my phone. "Urgent" to my son usually meant there was nothing for lunch.
"GG just called," he said, referring to my mother, who lived hours away in another state. "She said she was all packed and waiting for you to pick her up. She wants to know what time you're going to be there." 
"Oh my God," I said, laughing and panicking at the same time. Only the day before, at her 92nd birthday party, I'd asked Mom to again consider moving in with me. Her legs were swollen, her toenails had grown into claws and her bedroom was so jumbled even the mice were confounded. Plus, she couldn't remember how to drive home unless pointed in the right direction. 
She said she'd think about it.
Mom had always expressed a preference for death by hemlock over moving in with me. So when she called to say she was waiting for me, I wasn't exactly prepared. But I was thrilled, and I figured I'd better grab Mom before she forgot she was willing. A day later, I was on my way to pick her up. I had absolutely no clue what I was getting into. 
Thinking back, I realize this was the defining moment, the beginning of the end of my job. Two months later, I would be politely terminated for being so stressed I could no longer function professionally.
To work full-time and take care of a parent with dementia is a contradiction in terms -- unless your full-time job is taking care of a parent with dementia. Even if I'd had more time to prepare, I still would have lost my job. 
In this, I know I am not alone. The national Alzheimer's Association reports that almost 10 million people provide unpaid care for someone with dementia and that these people are much more likely to reduce working hours or quit work than those who care for an elderly person with other problems. One study found that 43 percent of caregivers were unemployed and two-thirds of those who were employed (either part-time or full-time) had to go in late, leave early or take time off. And according to "Caregiving in the U.S.," a 2009 study by the National Alliance for Caregiving and AARP, when caregiving conflicts with work, "seven in ten caregivers report making changes such as cutting back on their working hours, changing jobs, stopping work entirely, taking a leave of absence, or other such changes."
My friend Maria was working two jobs when her mother moved in with her. Though her teenage son was helping at home, she said, "My mother started calling me at work. She'd say, 'I'm here. Where are you?' I tried to tell her to call me only in an emergency, but she couldn't differentiate. She wanted me to come home."
Margaret Neal, author of a book on caregiving and director of Portland State University's Institute on Aging, points out that anybody with dementia needs full-time care. "With all of the behavioral symptoms," said Dr. Neal, "the person really can't be left alone." 
But I thought we were different. Mom wasn't that far gone. Mom enjoyed solitude and nature. My house, in the middle of the woods like hers, would be perfect. I could go to work early and come home by 3:30, then take her out to our local senior center where there were activities every evening. Since it was summer, my son would be there part of the day and could help with the transition. I thought I could just transplant her routine from her house to mine.
Wrong-O.
"You can never really be prepared," said Dr. Neal. "Dementia is so challenging. You can't imagine how it will be."
As soon as I brought her home, my son kept calling me at work . . . urgently. "GG's freaking out." "GG's getting in her car, I don't know where she's going." "GG's talking on the phone to somebody about how she's losing her mind."
My mother was really unhappy. To say I was distracted is putting it mildly. I was wracked with guilt for making her leave her own home, intolerably stressed. It tortured me that I was causing my mother such pain, yet I was more convinced than ever she could no longer live alone. 
It's easy for others to say "Hire a caregiver," or "Quit your job." We could afford neither. My mother's savings were exhausted, and I was in debt. My husband and I were separated, and he was disabled, unable to contribute. My father and my siblings were dead. Even with my job, it seemed I could never pay all the bills. And we were digging into a home-equity line of credit to clean and renovate my mother's house so we could rent it.
I did hire a very part-time caregiver who wanted more money per hour than I made. My mother hated her. While I searched for someone else, I tried bringing my mother to work with me. She sat in the conference room reading while I worked in my triple-person office. Every hour my mother would step into my office and inquire, with increasingly strained civility, when we would be going home. We left at lunchtime.
I toured the only local senior daycare center. It was hideous: smelly, somnambulant and depressing. My mother was too vital for such a place.
Evenings out at the senior center were good, but sometimes Mom was too tired. I tried leaving for work even earlier and went home to visit Mom for lunch. I found her with her belongings, including silverware, packed in brown paper bags. All ready to go back home, she was aghast to learn she had agreed to stay with me for at least a year.
In the end, it was a blessing that I was fired. I was forgetting appointments, making mistakes and miserable. I went on unemployment, picked up some freelancing and finally got Mom's house rented. 
It wasn't until I got fired that Mom started to relax. I am a touchstone to her, her means of orientation. When I am close by, she knows that she is where she's supposed to be. 
"You are my best friend," she told me recently, and though I never intended to culminate my social life with Mom, it seems that she is right. We eat together, visit friends together, laugh and watch "Jeopardy" together. What else are best friends for?
My friend Nancy, a nurse and another full-time caregiver, warns me about burnout. "After about a year, I was starting to have a nervous breakdown," she said. Now, despite the guilt, she uses part-time hired help. "We're the lucky ones, because we can afford it."
It's funny. When I brought Mom home with me, I thought I would give it a year. When my younger son graduated from high school, I thought I'd put Mom into assisted living and move on. But almost a year later, things are going pretty well. I'm paying the bills, writing in my home office, and Mom seems happy. Plus, in this economy, nobody's rushing to give me another full-time job. I'm thinking I just might try being a caregiver for another year. Full-time, of course.

        
Elderly Drivers Fail a Test
        
In the Dark, Maybe, but Not Lost
        
Antipsychotics Overused in Nursing Homes, Audit Finds
        
When Demented Patients Receive Feeding Tubes
        
What the Night Brings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (86%); DEMENTIA (86%); AGING (85%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); CAREGIVER SUPPORT (66%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (63%) Dementia; workplace benefits; Elder Care; Elderly; Arts & Culture

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



490 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: The Triumph of the Humanities

BYLINE: STANLEY FISH


HIGHLIGHT: In a new collection, more evidence that the humanities have colonized the fields that were supposed to have displaced them.

 BODY:
Our house in the western Catskills overlooks the Pepacton Reservoir, a 20-mile ribbon of water between Margaretville and Downsville. Maps on the Internet, depending on their scale and detail, will show you where the reservoir is in relation to nearby towns and roads. What they won't show you, although every resident of the area knows about them, are the four towns - Arena, Shavertown, Union Grove and Pepacton - that were flooded in the middle '50s so that the reservoir could be constructed. (Today, after more than 50 years, resentment against New York City remains strong.)
The maps and pictures of the reservoir are determinedly linear; the eye follows the water in its journey down Route 30 toward the city. But for the the old-timers, and the new-timers who have been caught up in the romance of the lost towns, the eye stops and looks down to what are now the geological layers of civilizations, one on the surface and claiming a literal, no-nonsense empirical reality ("If you want get from Andes to Downsville, you can travel on either side of the reservoir"), and the other below the surface, where lie subterranean Brigadoons that emerge not every hundred years but whenever the reservoir gets so low that pieces of a drowned culture suddenly and unnervingly come into view. At those moments the eye simply cannot travel the straight line encouraged by visible coherences and road signs; the natural pull of forward progress is forestalled and one begins to ruminate on what lies beneath our every step as we raise our feet to take the next one.
There is now a (relatively) new discipline in which this breaking down of time into spatial units that are read vertically rather than horizontally is the obligatory gesture. It calls itself GeoHumanities and its project is nicely encapsulated in the title of one of the essays in a collection that officially announces the emergence of a field of study. The collection is called "GeoHumanities: Art, History, Text at the Edge of Place"; the essay (by Edward L. Ayers, an historian and president of the University of Richmond) is entitled "Mapping Time." Ayers's project is to map the changes that followed upon the emancipation of the slaves after the Civil War. He and his colleagues begin with a simple map and then they locate populations on the landscape and "put down one layer after another: of race, of wealth, of literacy, of water courses, of roads, of railways, of soil type, of voting patterns, of social structure." 
The layered picture that results can then be "read" and a story can be told, the story of complex relationships that are frozen by the analysis but which, of course, are really in motion. The next step is to acknowledge the motion by using cinematic techniques that present the passage of time, as spacial units that succeed one another. "By converting time to motion," says Ayers, "we can visualize the passage of time (as one watches the hands of a clock move)." 
Ayers calls this technique of representation "deep contingency," and he acknowledges its artificiality. The metaphor of a layered reality "is a fiction of course, since the layers continually interact and the 'top' layer of humans constantly changes the 'bottom' layer of landscape; but it is a useful fiction, since it reminds us of the structural depth of time and experience." The project is a synthesis of geography (now renamed Geographic Information Science, or GIS) and history: "GIS is about patterns and structures; history is about motion; by integrating the two, we can see layers of events, layers of the consequences of unpredictability."
That is, we can read events not merely historically, as the product of the events preceding them, but geologically, as the location of sedimented patterns of culture, economics, politics, agriculture. What is being attempted is a reorientation of perception, an alternative way of interpreting the world in which "space is not merely in the service of time, but has a poetics of its own, which reveals itself through a geographical or topological imagination rather than a historical one" (Paul Smethurst, "The Postmodern Chronotope"). 
The interplay in these quotations between a literary and a geographical vocabulary tells us what GeoHumanities is all about; it is the elaboration, by methods derived from the humanities, of "the stratified record upon which we set our feet" (the title of another essay and a quote from Thomas Mann). It is the realization, in a style of analysis, of the "spatial turn," a "critical shift that divested geography of its largely passive role as history's 'stage' and brought to the fore intersections between the humanities and the earth sciences" (Peta Mitchell in "GeoHumanities"). 
"Intersections" is perhaps too weak a word, because it suggests two disciplines that retain their distinctiveness but collaborate occasionally on a specific project. The stronger assertion, made by many in the volume, is that the division between empirical/descriptive disciplines and interpretive disciplines is itself a fiction and one that stands in the way of the production of knowledge. 
An apparently empirical project like geography is, and always has been, interpretive through and through. "The map has always been a political agent"(Lize Mogel), has always had a "generative power" (Emily Eliza Scott), and that power can only be released and studied by those who approach their work in the manner of literary critics. Geography "demands a reader who is at once an archeologist, geologist and geographer, a reader who is at all times attentive to the stratification of history, memory, language, and landscape and who can read obliquely through their layers" (Peta Mitchell).
If interpretive methods and perspectives are necessary to the practice of geography, they are no less necessary to other projects supposedly separate from the project of the humanities. And that is why, in addition to GeoHumanities, we now have Biohumanities ("the humanities not only comment on the significance or implications of biological knowledge, but add to our understanding of biology itself" - Karola Stotz and Paul E. Griffiths), Disability Studies (of which the X-Men films might be both a representation and an instance), Metahistory (the study of the irreducibly narrative basis of historical "fact"), Law and Literature (the laying bare of the rhetorical and literary strategies giving form to every assertion in the law), Cultural Anthropology (an inquiry into the very possibility of anthropological observation that begins by acknowledging the inescapability of perspective and the ubiquity of interpretation), Cultural Sociology ("the commitment to hermeneutically reconstructing social texts in a rich and persuasive way" - Jeffrey C. Alexander and Philip Smith), and other hybrids already emergent and soon to emerge.
What this all suggests is that while we have been anguishing over the fate of the humanities, the humanities have been busily moving into, and even colonizing, the fields that were supposedly displacing them. In the '70s and the '80s the humanities exported theory to the social sciences and (with less influence) to the sciences; many disciplines saw a pitched battle between the new watchwords - perspective, contingency, dispersion, multi-vocality, intertextuality - and the traditional techniques of dispassionate observation, the collection of evidence, the drawing of warranted conclusions and the establishing of solid fact. Now the dust has settled and the invaded disciplines have incorporated much of what they resisted. Propositions that once seemed outlandish - all knowledge is mediated, even our certainties are socially constructed - are now routinely asserted in precincts where they were once feared as the harbingers of chaos and corrosive relativism.
One could say then that the humanities are the victors in the theory wars; nearly everyone now dances to their tune. But this conceptual triumph has not brought with it a proportionate share of resources or institutional support. Perhaps administrators still think of the humanities as the province of precious insights that offer little to those who are charged with the task of making sense of the world. Volumes like "GeoHumanities" tell a different story, and it is one that cannot be rehearsed too often.
Postscript: In my column on the conflict between faculty and administration at Idaho State University, I failed to mention that the provost, Gary Olson, is a humanities scholar who has written extensively about my work.

        
The Power of Partnerships
        
Will Lincoln Prevail?
        
The Andes Chronicles
        
Sex and Some Cities
        
Bound For Academic Glory?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (78%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%); TEXTBOOKS (61%); ART HISTORY (61%); SLAVERY (60%) empirical vs. interpretive; Geography; geohumanities; New York State; pepacton reservoir; Stanley Fish

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



491 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1870 words

HEADLINE: Mobilizing the Playground Movement

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: For 15 years, a group has been organizing citizens to turn their public spaces into playgrounds in a single day.

 BODY:
On Wednesday more than 500 volunteers will gather at the Imagine Southeast Public Charter School, in Congress Heights, one of Washington's poorest neighborhoods, to help construct the 2,000th playground led by KaBOOM!, an organization that has turned community playground building into the modern-day equivalent of barn raising. Among those assembling slides and swing sets alongside residents and Americorps volunteers will be Michele Obama and Secretary of Education Arne Duncan who will be highlighting the importance of play and the administration's Let's Move initiative, which aims to attack the problem of childhood obesity.
For 15 years, KaBOOM! has been leading playground construction around the country, mostly in neighborhoods where at least 70 percent of children qualify for the federal government's free and reduced-cost lunch program. Earlier this month, it completed its 150th playground on the Gulf Coast - in New Orleans' Palmer Park.In Fixes, we often focus on basic problems that are overlooked. Despite overwhelming evidence that play is vital for children's physical, emotional and cognitive development, in recent decades, due to many factors, children's outdoor play opportunities have declined markedly. As I reported in a past column, many schools have scaled back recess because of disciplinary problems and pressures to improve students' academic performance.
KaBOOM! is attacking another dimension of this problem: the shortage of safe, developmentally appropriate and attractive play spaces available to many American children. KaBOOM! has assumed a leading role defining, highlighting and, now, mapping, the country's "play deserts" - communities lacking such spaces. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, half the children in the country live in a neighborhood without a park or community center.
What makes KaBOOM!'s model unique is the way it sparks leadership and unleashes energy within communities to improve the play environment. KaBOOM! raises most of its funds from businesses and foundations and it could hire contractors to build playgrounds directly - something that would be faster and easier. Instead, it has spent years refining a process that teaches people around the country how to organize themselves to turn around their own public spaces. Along the way, it has created a blueprint for activating citizens - something of particular value in a country that has one of the lowest voter turnout rates in the industrialized world.
KaBOOM! was launched in 1996 after its co-founder and chief executive, Darell Hammond (not to be confused with the comedian Darrell Hammond), read a Washington Post story about two small children - a four-year-old girl and her two-year-old brother - who suffocated while playing in an abandoned car. "They couldn't find anywhere else to play," Hammond recalled. Reporters noted an absence of swings, slides and playgrounds at the Stoddert Terrace housing complex, where the children had lived.
Hammond couldn't get the image out of his mind. When he was four years old, he had been placed along with his siblings in a group home because his father had abandoned the family and his mother was unable to care for them. But the home turned out to be a beautiful thousand-acre facility called the Mooseheart Child City & School in northern Illinois.
Throughout his adult life, Hammond has felt a deep sense of gratitude - and obligation - to repay society for his good fortune. He discovered that he loved building playgrounds for disadvantaged children and that he had a gift for inspiring others around this vision. By 1999, KaBOOM! had 50 corporate partners and was building 50 playgrounds a year. Today, a KaBOOM!-assisted playground goes up, on average, every other day somewhere in the country - always led by locals who have spent months mobilizing their neighbors, reaching out to local businesses, and managing countless details. (Hammond has recently published a book - "KaBOOM!: How One Man Built a Movement to Save Play" - which is full of practical guidance for anyone interested in building an organization to address a social problem.)
KaBOOM!'s approach is captured by its name. Its signature events are one-day building projects - typically held on Saturdays - when local residents and other volunteers, through a burst of coordinated energy over six to eight hours, transform an empty patch of land into a colorful playground. "When people arrive in the morning, they say, 'How are we ever going to do this?' " explains Hammond. "But by 10 or 11 o'clock, as it starts to take shape and they start to get excited, they say things like, 'Is this the fastest one you've ever built?'"
The idea of the "benevolent community" - neighbors pitching in for the common good - has been described by Robert Reich as one the defining narratives of American history. The Great Seal of the United States contains the dictum E Pluribus Unum - "Out of many, one." However, it can be difficult to actualize this ideal in a country where living patterns favor sprucing up the back yard over the neighborhood park. Poverty adds another layer of difficulty. Long-term unemployment, crime, stress - and a feeling of being left out of the American dream - can make it difficult for citizens in a disadvantaged community to rouse one another to take up collective challenges.
KaBOOM! seems to have found a way to jumpstart this process. It offers a tangible goal that almost everyone can agree upon - a place for kids to play. More important, it breaks down community building into doable steps. "To get things going, you need a definable project on a definable timeline," explains Hammond. "It's about common cause, common experience, achievable wins, and cascading steps of courage."
An average playground costs about $75,000. The deal that KaBOOM! strikes with local groups is this: KaBOOM! will provide a road map and pay 90 percent of the costs, but the community must handle the organization work and come up with the remaining 10 percent. KaBOOM! provides advice for soliciting donations, shows locals how to organize a design day to generate excitement - enlisting children to draw their own "dream playgrounds" - and brings in a project manager to oversee the build day.
Community members divide themselves into subgroups, assign co-chairs, and coordinate everything that will be needed for the build day - that means agreeing on a design, selecting playground equipment, preparing the site, digging holes, mobilizing volunteers, finding tools, getting government permits, ensuring first-aid coverage, arranging for breakfast and lunch for hundreds, pulling in donations of everything from T-shirts to water bottles to heavy equipment and portable latrines and, finally, getting a DJ for the end-of-day party. At the outset, organizers are often daunted by the scope of the undertaking. Many say: "How are we going to find all this?"
"This a path that we've seen thousands of communities go through," explains Hammond. KaBOOM! shares success stories from similar communities. But it also helps community members recognize their own strengths. In fact, one of the most useful experiences for residents is when they go though an "asset mapping" process - something that Hammond learned about while working at an organization called the Asset-Based Community Development Institute.
A KaBOOM! facilitator begins by asking locals to consider the resources they have available. Does anyone have a brother, uncle, friend or co-worker who works at a grocery store, a hospital, a university, a construction company, a realtor, a rotary club? The list goes on and on. "In a room of 10 people, you discover that you can find connections to everyone in the community," explains Nate Rosenthal, KaBOOM!'s community manager. "People, especially in a low-income community, don't normally realize all the assets they have."
Once all the contacts are assembled on a chart, people are surprised to see what they have to work with. Jobs get assigned. People start reaching out. The co-chairs report back weekly. One by one, checklist items get ticked off. "We stress that it's really hard to do this on your own," adds Rosenthal. "But if you get between 10 and 15 people involved in the planning committee you're going to be successful." When problems arise, he adds, it's usually because a strong-headed person is insisting on doing things his or her way.
The process is just as important as the final product, says Hammond. Details make all the difference. Planning is essential, of course. When you're pouring concrete - the average playground uses 280 80-pound bags - you need to know where to place tarps and wheelbarrow paths, and how to do it safely. KaBOOM! helps out. But people management is equally crucial. For example, builds run more efficiently - and volunteers have a better experience - when they are grouped at random, rather than when they self-select into teams. Leaders step in to ensure that teams have a mixture of people with different skill levels as well as some with fun personalities. It's helpful for teams to have easy-to-remember names. And it's a good idea to have rolling lunch breaks to keep the momentum.
"The process is really about moms and dads and neighbors coming together to do something significant for kids," says Hammond. "And the kids, who are watching this take place, understand -- maybe they don't understand it immediately, but they understand it down the road, like I did - that people did something incredible for them. And they'll remember that."
KaBOOM! has many stories of playground organizers who have gone on to do other things: build community gardens, refurbish community centers, lobby to have street lights repaired, and run for elected office. A 2008 study found that 90 percent of participants (pdf) said the experience improved relationships between residents, gave locals an enhanced sense of their collective capacity, and made them feel less skeptical about possibilities for further change.
"Community building can take a long time," explains Deborah Puntenney, an assistant professor in the School of Education and Social Policy at Northwestern University, who conducted the study. "Dropping in a playground acts as catalyst. It's almost a prescription for how to activate a community."
Over the years, KaBOOM!'s biggest challenge has been keeping up with demand. A few years ago, to increase impact, the organization began putting its planning tools online for anyone to use. On Friday, I'll report on this effort and respond to comments. And if any readers have participated in building a playground, let us know about your experience.
Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes.
David Bornstein is the author of "How to Change the World," which has been published in 20 languages, and "The Price of a Dream: The Story of the Grameen Bank," and is co-author of "Social Entrepreneurship: What Everyone Needs to Know." He is the founder of dowser.org, a media site that reports on social innovation.

        
Let the Children Play (Some More)
        
Cellphone Fears, Twitter Tears 
        
The Path From Charity to Profit
        
In 'Food Deserts,' Oases of Nutrition
        
Publishers as Partners in Literacy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); OBESITY (70%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (70%); EXECUTIVES (62%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (52%) children; health; play; Playgrounds; public spaces; Fixes

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (56%); ARNE DUNCAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



492 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Delays Rule on Power Plant Emissions

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: The delay is a tacit admission that the rules pose difficult political, economic and technical challenges that cannot be addressed speedily, especially in view of aggressive criticism from Congressional Republicans.

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency, facing intense opposition from Congressional Republicans and industry over a broad range of new air quality regulations, said Monday that it was delaying by two months the release of a proposed rule on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants and other major pollution sources.
 The delay of the rule, which will have a major impact on the nation's efforts to reduce emissions of gases blamed for the warming of the planet, is the latest step by the E.P.A. to slow the issuing of regulations that its critics claim will slow economic growth, drive up energy costs and reduce employment. The delay is a tacit admission that the regulations pose difficult political, economic and technical challenges that cannot be addressed on the aggressive timetable the agency set for itself early in the Obama administration. 
 The agency said it was pushing back the new greenhouse gas proposal to the end of September to allow more time to consider input that it had gathered from power companies, environmental advocates and others gathered public comment sessions. Officials said they still expect to have a final rule in place by May 2012. Scott Segal, a utility industry lobbyist in Washington, said that the E.P.A.'s caution signaled an understanding that the new rule will have a profound impact on the price, supply and reliability of the electricity by forcing extensive modifications to or the shutdown of dozens of older power plants. 
He noted that the agency has several other major rules pending that will affect power plant operators, including rules covering coal ash disposal, power plant cooling water, ozone and toxic air emissions from generating stations. 
 The E.P.A. is also working with the Department of Transportation and the state of California to develop a new mileage and emissions standard for cars and light trucks covering the years 2017 to 2025.
 "This action admits the premise that the agency has literally overloaded itself with rule-makings," Mr. Segal said. "They need to take more time."
 Frank O'Donnell, president of Clean Air Watch, an environmental advocacy group, agreed that the delay reflected a heavy workload for the agency. He expressed fear nonetheless that it was backtracking on critical air quality actions in the face of congressional and industry pressure.
 "The biggest concern is that this seems to be the latest in a pattern of delays as the E.P.A. remains under intense political pressure from Republicans and some Democrats in Congress," Mr. O'Donnell said in an e-mail message. "E.P.A. has already delayed the important standards for ozone as well as for fine particle soot. And it has put its industrial boiler standards on ice indefinitely."
 "Every time E.P.A. announces a delay," he added, "it seems to fuel the anti-regulatory engine of its opponents in Congress."

        
The Night of the Living Lawmakers
        
On Our Radar: Senator Expects Vote on Delaying E.P.A. Rules
        
On Our Radar: Don't Tear Down E.P.A., Former Agency Chiefs Urge
        
Lung Association Ads Fault House Panel Chairman
        
Group That Beat Back Proposition 23 Is Reborn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); EMISSIONS (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%) Environmental Protection Agency; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; power plants; regulation; Electric Light and Power; Environment; Global Warming; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; House of Representatives; Breaking News; Business; climate change; Energy Business; Energy Economics; Energy Politics; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (94%) Environmental Protection Agency; House of Representatives

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



493 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Have You Made (or Missed) a Big Real Estate Profit?

BYLINE: DIANE CARDWELL


HIGHLIGHT: Mildred Furiya of Brooklyn bought her town house in 1966 for $16,000 and is now planning to list it for $1.895 million.

 BODY:
This week the Appraisal visits with Mildred Furiya of Brooklyn, who bought her town house in 1966 for $16,000 and is planning to list it for $1.895 million, the kind of potential profit that fuels many a New York real estate dream - and nightmare.
That kind of run-up - 11,744 percent over 45 years, about 11 percent per year - may be a little extreme. But the New York City real estate market is kind of an extreme place.
Perhaps you know this firsthand. Please share, in the comment box below, your tales from the real estate roller coaster of opportunities taken - or missed.

        
The Rent Is High, and So Is the Demand
        
Tell Us Your Home Renovation Nightmares
        
You'll Never Believe What the Landlord Wanted
        
The Weight of a Doorman's Words
        
When Money Alone Doesn't Qualify a Buyer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%) Boerum Hill; real estate; The Appraisal; Housing and Real Estate; Boerum Hill (NYC); Brooklyn; Housing & Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Boerum Hill (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



494 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(David Brooks)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Living With Mistakes

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS


HIGHLIGHT: Tim Harford's new book, "Adapt: Why Success Always Starts with Failure," offers a very useful guide for people preparing to live in the world as it really is.

 BODY:
Some of the blogs I follow-Marginal Revolution, Ezra Klein-have given ample attention to Tim Harford's new book, "Adapt: Why Success Always Starts with Failure." So I solipsistically assumed that everybody must be aware of it. But then I happened to glance at this book's Amazon ranking, which as I write is down on the wrong side of 1,500. This is an outrage, people! For the good of the world, a bigger slice of humanity should be aware of its contents.
So I'm doing my bit to publicize it. (I don't know Harford in any way, shape or form.)
Harford starts out with the premise that the world is a very complicated and difficult place. At the dawn of the automobile industry roughly 2,000 car companies sprang into being. Less than 1 percent of them survived. Even if you make it to the top, it is very hard to stay there. The historian Leslie Hannah identified the ten largest American companies in 1912. None of those companies ranked in the top 100 companies by 1990.
Harford's basic lesson is you have to design your life to make effective use of failures. You have to design systems of trial and error, or to use a natural word, evolution. Most successful enterprises are built through a process of groping and adaptation, not planning.
The Russian thinker Peter Palchinsky understood the basic structure of smart change. First seek out new ideas and new things. Next, try new things on a scale small enough so that their failure is survivable. Then find a feedback mechanism so you can tell which new thing is failing and which is succeeding.
That's the model-variation, survivability, selection.
Harford then illustrates how this basic process can work across a variety of contexts, from business to war to poetry. He's an able guide to the world of human fallibility. For example, he cites James Reason who identifies three kinds of error. First, there are slips. In 2005 a young Japanese trader meant to sell one share of stock at 600,000 yen but accidentally sold 600,000 shares at 1 yen.
Then there are violations, when someone intentionally breaks the rules. This is what Bernie Madoff did. Then there are mistakes-things you do on purpose but with unintentional consequences.
Errors can be very hard for outsiders to detect. A study by Alexander Dyck, Adair Morse and Luigi Zingales looked at 216 allegations of corporate fraud. Regulators and auditors uncovered the fraud in only one out of six of those cases. It was people inside the companies who were most likely to report fraud, because they have local knowledge. And yet 80 percent of these whistleblowers regret having reported the crimes because of the negative consequences they suffered. This is not the way to treat people who detect error.
Harford is an economic journalist, so he doesn't get into the psychological and spiritual traits you need to live with error and look it in the face, but he offers a very useful guide for people preparing to live in the world as it really is.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); RANKINGS (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); POETRY (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); HISTORY (67%); ACCOUNTING (65%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (63%) Adjusting; Failure; Planning; Success; Harford, Tim; Frauds and Swindling; Marginal Revolution; Japan; Russia

ORGANIZATION: Marginal Revolution

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (50%) Harford, Tim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%) Japan; Russia

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



495 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Making Hiring Cheaper

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: In the past week, there has been some buzz about creating some similar tax incentives that would subsidize labor, such as allowing employers to forgo paying their share of payroll taxes for any net new hires.

 BODY:
On Friday, I wrote about how equipment and software prices are getting rapidly cheaper while the cost of labor has been getting more expensive, making capital a more attractive investment to companies than people. Tax incentives that encourage earlier capital investment may be helping, too.
In the past week, there has been some buzz about creating similar tax incentives that would subsidize labor, such as allowing employers to forgo paying their share of payroll taxes for any net new hires.
Reuters and Bloomberg News reported, for example, that the White House is considering such a proposal. Times reporters had been hearing, though, that the idea was not yet seriously under discussion.
Then today, Larry Summers, who until recently served as President Obama's top economic adviser, wrote in The Washington Post that he believes employers should get a payroll tax cut, although he did not specify whether the tax cut should be applicable to new hires only.
On its face, a payroll tax cut should have bipartisan appeal: It helps unemployed people, which pleases Democrats, and it cuts taxes for businesses, which pleases Republicans. A similar tax cut implemented in the 1970s also has received generally favorable evaluations from economists.
One possible reason this idea has not gotten much traction lately, though, is that Congress passed a temporary job creation tax cut last year that does not seem to have been terribly effective. It had some major design flaws, and was not well-publicized. If employers don't know about a hiring tax incentive, it's not going to have any impact on their behavior.
On the other hand, it's entirely possible that Washington is considering such a tax incentive but loath to loudly advertise it. After all, long drawn-out discussions could end up worsening the job market if they encourage employers to delay hiring and wait for the best possible deal.

        
Will This Jobs Bill Do Any Good?
        
Waiting for the Subsidy, II
        
Labor Demand Gets Softer
        
Podcast: Job Woes, Pet Boom and Annuity Puzzle 
        
In the Jobs Report, One Big Question

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); TAX INCENTIVES (94%); TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PODCASTING (50%) employment; hiring; job creation tax credit; jobs; public policy; subsidies; taxes; Unemployment; Summers, Lawrence H; Hiring and Promotion; Labor and Jobs; Payroll Tax; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%); WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (87%); BARACK OBAMA (55%) Summers, Lawrence H

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



496 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: White House Calls Weiner Behavior 'Distraction'

BYLINE: MICAHEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, called Representative Anthony D. Weiner's situation "a distraction" but stopped short of calling for the lawmaker to resign.

 BODY:
For more than a week, White House officials have steadfastly avoided making any comment on the scandal that engulfed Representative Anthony D. Weiner of New York.
That ended Monday as Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, called Mr. Weiner's situation "a distraction" but stopped short of calling for the lawmaker to resign.
"The President feels -- we feel at the White House that this is a distraction," Mr. Carney told reporters above Air Force One. "Obviously as Congressman Weiner has said himself, this is -- the behavior was inappropriate; the dishonesty was inappropriate. But the President is focused on his job, which is getting this economy continuing to grow, creating jobs, and obviously ensuring the safety and security of the American people."
Reporters asked directly whether Mr. Obama wants Mr. Weiner to resign, but Mr. Carney refused to say.
"I think I answered that question," Mr. Carney said. "We think this is a distraction obviously from the important business that this President needs to conduct and Congress needs to conduct. Beyond that, I don't have any more comment."
Democratic leaders came under intense pressure last week to call for Mr. Weiner's resignation. But for the most part, they resisted that pressure until the weekend, when Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, relented and said he should go.

        
Weiner Scandal Is a Case of Bad Timing for Democrats
        
Priebus Criticizes Democrats' Response to Weiner Scandal
        
Five Reasons Weiner Might Survive and Five He Might Not
        
For Politicians, Social Media Holds Promise and Peril
        
Weiner 'Can't Say' Twitter Photo Is Not of Him

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ANTHONY WEINER SCANDAL (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (64%) anthony weiner; Jay Carney; The 44th President

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (94%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



497 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Digital Flirting - Easy to Do and Easy to Get Caught

BYLINE: TARA PARKER-POPE


HIGHLIGHT: Slight shifts in infidelity rates among young people and women suggest that digital media may be playing a role. 

 BODY:
Representative Anthony Weiner may have taken it to an extreme. But the online flirtations and provocative photos that got him into so much trouble are far from unusual among adults these days, experts say.
What with Facebook friends, Twitter followers and Skype video chats, it is now all too easy to flirt with strangers and engage in sexual fantasy without (technically) breaking a marriage vow. Digital dalliance has entered the mainstream.
For instance, sexting - sending sexually suggestive text messages or photos, as Mr. Weiner did - is usually thought of as a teenage pastime. But according to a report from the Pew Research Center's Internet and American Life Project based on a representative sample of 2,252 adults, it is far more common among people aged 18 to 29.
Nearly one-third of that group say they have received sexually suggestive or nude photos of someone they know, and 13 percent say they have sent them, the report said. Even among 30-to-49-year-olds, 17 percent say they have received such photos and 5 percent admit sending them. Similar Pew research finds that the comparable figures among adolescents are 15 percent and 4 percent.
"Given the alchemy of sex and lust and love and technology, it's not that surprising that the numbers are where they are," said Amanda Lenhart, a senior research specialist at Pew. "Anecdotally, those of us who know single younger adults know people who do this."
Nancy Baym, a University of Kansas professor of communication studies and author of the new book "Personal Connections in the Digital Age," agreed. "I think we tend to blame teenagers for behaviors that we're quite guilty of ourselves," she said. "Grown-ups are certainly capable of doing really stupid stuff online."
The data reflect the new rules of digital romance, in which flirtatious texts have replaced phone calls, and Web sites like Facebook have replaced high school reunions as a way to reconnect with an old flame.
"We use new technologies in romantic relationships all the time," said Dr. Baym. "When two people meet and they're interested in developing the relationship, they go to text messages really fast as a way to safely negotiate the relationship."
Therapists debate whether the Internet has facilitated more infidelity - after all, men and women have been betraying their vows since marriage began. Still, slight shifts in infidelity rates among young people and women suggest that digital media may be playing a role. Anecdotally, therapists report that electronic contact via Facebook, e-mail and text messages has allowed women in particular to form more intimate relationships.
"There's no question that the Internet has increased the availability of alternative romantic partners, whether it's flirtation, reuniting with old lovers or having texting sexual relationships," Dr. Baym said. "The Internet dramatically expands the scope of potential people that we can meet."
But while online communication may make it easier to cheat, it also leaves a digital trail that makes it more likely you'll be caught.
"I don't think the Internet is increasing transgressions, but it's leaving a trail that is very accessible," said Lois Braverman, president of the Ackerman Institute for the Family. "In the 19th century there were letters; in the '60s and '70s there might be private detective photos or credit card receipts. What's different is that back then a transgression might have been discovered, but it didn't go viral."
Some researchers believe that the widespread availability of pornography via the Internet has also led to an insidious change in attitudes about sex.
One study found that more than a third of Americans had visited an online porn site at least once a month, according to a 2009 report in The Journal of Economic Perspectives. That study analyzed subscriptions to one major provider of adult entertainment, finding a relatively even distribution of subscriptions across the country.
"By all indications it's pretty common," said the author of the paper, Benjamin Edelman, an assistant professor at the Harvard Business School. "Just about anywhere you look, people are subscribing to online adult entertainment. It's something people do in every state, every county."
Tom Hymes, a senior editor at AVN Media Network, a trade publication that follows the adult entertainment industry, said online sexual behavior had been part of the mainstream for years.
"My perspective is that Rep. Weiner was behaving well within certain online norms, as far as what we see happening on a regular basis," he said in an e-mail. "But his huge mistake was thinking he could maintain his anonymity (if indeed he did) when he seemed to be doing everything he could to use his prestige as a congressman in his online flirtations."
Erick Janssen, senior scientist at the Kinsey Institute, said more study was needed to learn how the Internet and digital media are shaping adult behavior and relationships.
"People who engage in behaviors like erotic chats, seduction, exhibition, it's probably indeed very widespread," he said. "That the behaviors are there is hard to dispute. To connect that information with people's relationship status, their values, what their partner might think of it - that sort of thing we don't know a whole lot about."

        
Patients, Too, Turn to the Internet for Fund-Raising
        
Four Degrees of Separation
        
Tired of Feeling the Burn? Low-Acid Diet May Help
        
Mammogram's Role as Savior Is Tested
        
Telling Men the Truth about Sex and Prostate Cancer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SEXTING (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); TRENDS (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); STATISTICS (74%); WRITERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Internet; Sex; Well; Computers and the Internet; Research; Social Conditions and Trends; Social Networking (Internet); Text Messaging

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011



498 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: How to Cut Child Poverty in Half

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Britain's success in reducing child poverty offers lessons for the United States in both policy and political will, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
Cutting child poverty in half sounds like a magician's trick, or some miracle of rapid economic growth. But Britain has used standard policy tools to reduce its child-poverty rate by more than half since 1994 and has effectively defended this progress against the pressures of the Great Recession.
By contrast, the child poverty rate has trended upward in the United States since 2000, and children have proved economically vulnerable to increased unemployment.
Most other rich countries rate higher on indicators of child well-being than either Britain or the United States. But we have more in common with Britain than most other countries, and rightfully pay closer attention to it.
The contours of British success are detailed in "Britain's War on Poverty," a compelling book by Jane Waldfogel of Columbia University. An updated summary has been published online by two nonprofit groups that have long pressed for more attention to these issues: First Focus and the Foundation for Child Development, on whose board I serve. (Professor Waldfogel was also the subject of a recent Book Chat on this blog.)The ordinary policies in Britain that led to what many Americans would consider extraordinary results were these: an increase in the national minimum wage (currently about $9.70 an hour, compared with our $7.25), tax incentives to encourage single parents to move into paid employment, increased public benefits for parents, provision of universal preschool and regulations making it easier for parents of young children to request flexible work schedules.
Many similar, though less generous policies are already in effect in the United States, at the federal or state level. Indeed, the title of Professor Waldfogel's book evokes President Lyndon B. Johnson's War on Poverty, while Britain's New Deal for Lone Parents sounds Rooseveltian. The Sure Start program, focusing on social and educational services to young children in low-income families, resembles our Head Start program.
In short, just as the British have built on our examples, we could easily build on theirs. Do we simply lack the political will, or is it harder in the United States to translate this political will into legislative action?
A survey commissioned by First Focus in April suggests that most Americans worry that children fare poorly and oppose cuts in federal spending that could hurt them. But even strongly voiced concerns about poverty are difficult to hear over the cacophony of fierce debate on budget cuts and government spending.
Britain has a longer history of universal programs, such as national health insurance and paid parental leave, that may have created a stronger political commitment to public spending.
Under Tony Blair's leadership, the Labour Party government that came to power in 1997 took a more decisive stand on child poverty than our Democratic Party. Professor Waldfogel suggests that concerns about child poverty have been -- and remain -- stronger across the political spectrum in Britain, with the new coalition government of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats promising to leave poor children unharmed by planned major cuts in social spending.
Recent cuts in once-universal child benefits (on the grounds that the country can't afford to subsidize high-income parents) reflect some growing tensions. Continuing political debate in Britain suggests that income cutoffs for eligibility raise issues of fairness and may foster political resentment toward low-income families.
Racial and ethnic diversity in Britain has increased considerably in recent years as a result of increased immigration, and Professor Waldfogel notes that poverty among children is highest among those of Pakistani and Bangladeshi origin, just as it is highest in the United States among black and Hispanic children.
Income inequality has increased in Britain in recent years, as it has in the United States. As a result, declines in absolute poverty among children have not been matched by declines in the relative poverty of children's families, defined as a percentage of median family income.
Still, Britain has made distinct and admirable progress. While the future of its efforts to reduce child poverty remains uncertain, Britain's recent history vindicates the hope that we can find both the will and the way to do better here.
First Focus, in conjunction with Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, and the Foundation for Child Development, plans a Congressional briefing on these issues on June 16.

        
The Great Deprivation
        
Remembering the Little People: Accounting for Kids
        
Lean on Me: Informal Safety Nets in Hard Times
        
Hard Times for the Kids
        
A New York City 'Living Wage'?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILD POVERTY (95%); POOR POPULATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PARENTS (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CHILD CARE (75%); MINIMUM WAGE (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); FAMILY LEAVE (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); PARENTING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); FLEXTIME (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); POLITICS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (64%); TAX LAW (64%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (63%) Britain; Child Care; children; Head Start; minimum wage; Nancy Folbre; Poverty; Waldfogel, Jane; Children and Youth; Great Britain

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (57%) Waldfogel, Jane

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



499 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Ad Spending Increases Again, Report Finds

BYLINE: STUART ELLIOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Advertising spending continues to recover from the recession, although the rate of growth is slowing, according to a report released Monday by Kantar Media. 

 BODY:
Advertising spending is continuing to recover from the recession and financial crisis, according to a report released Monday morning, although the rate of growth is slowing.
The report, by Kantar Media, part of WPP, found that ad spending in major media in the United States in the first quarter rose 4.4 percent from the same quarter a year ago. The percentage gain is the fifth quarterly increase in a row since the end of 2009, but it is the smallest of the five.
That is not necessarily a red flag, according to Kantar. As the bounceback from hard times goes on, the quarterly results are up against tougher comparisons versus the previous year.
"We're now comparing against stronger numbers from a year ago," said Jon Swallen, senior vice president for research at the Kantar Media Intelligence North America unit of Kantar.
"A year and a half into a recovery, that's not an unusual pattern to see stronger growth at the outset," he said.Another signal that Madison Avenue may not need to be anxious is that "we're seeing growth across a very broad spectrum of advertisers," Mr. Swallen said.
"More than two-thirds of advertisers are increasing budgets compared with a year ago," he added.
The 4.4 percent increase in the first quarter comes after the four consecutive quarterly gains in 2010 compared with the same periods of 2009: 7 percent in the fourth quarter, 8.7 percent in the third quarter, 5.4 percent in the second quarter and 5.1 percent in the first quarter.
Although most advertisers are continuing to spend more, they are still shying from newspapers and newspaper-related media, the Kantar report shows.
Of the seven categories of media tracked in the first quarter, only two were down from the same period a year ago: newspapers, down 2.1 percent, and free-standing inserts, mostly distributed through newspapers, down 17.5 percent.
Within the newspaper category, ads in local newspapers declined 1.1 percent. It was the 22nd consecutive quarter of negative results, Kantar said.
Ads in national newspapers fell 7.5 percent compared with the first quarter of 2010, according to the report, and ads in Spanish-language papers declined 7.4 percent.
The media category with the largest percentage gain was Internet display ads, up 14.6 percent, followed by outdoor ads, up 12.5 percent; television, up 5.3 percent; and magazines, up 4.5 percent.
The media subcategory with the biggest percentage increase was cable television, up 31.9 percent, followed by Spanish-language magazines, up 22.3 percent.
Turning to ad spending by categories of advertisers, there were gains in eight of 10 categories in the first quarter, just as there was in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The category with the biggest increase was insurance, up 29 percent, reflecting the intense competition among auto insurers.
Insurance was, appropriately, followed by automotive, up 23 percent. (Automotive is the largest ad category of all.) Within the auto category, ad spending by automakers climbed 24.2 percent, the report said, and ad spending by auto dealers rose 20.6 percent.
The increases for auto ad spending are "beginning to slow down just a little bit," Mr. Swallen said, "and we see that extending into the beginning of the second quarter as well."
Some of the slowdown was related to the effects of the Japan earthquake and tsunami on supplies of cars made in Japan, he added.
As for the advertisers that spend all the money, Procter & Gamble led the list of the top 10, as it often does. Procter spent $719.8 million in the first quarter, the report said, down 5.9 percent from $765 million spent in the first quarter of last year.
Of the top 10 spenders, seven spent more than they did a year ago. They include the Chrysler Group, up 58.6 percent; Toyota Motor, up 30.3 percent; Ford Motor, up 27.3 percent; L'Oreal, up 14.1 percent; AT&T, up 6.9 percent; and General Motors, up 1.3 percent.
Another bigger spender, the Comcast Corporation, has a virtual asterisk next to its name.
Comcast's ad spending rose 47.7 percent, vaulting the company into the top 10, because of its acquisition of NBCUniversal. The ad spending for Universal movies and other NBCUniversal properties is now added to Comcast's totals.
The other decliners in the top 10, in addition to Procter, were Verizon Communications, down 24.4 percent, and Pfizer, down 11.1 percent.
The top 10, in descending order of total first-quarter spending, are: Procter, AT&T, General Motors, Comcast, Verizon, Pfizer, Chrysler, Toyota, Ford and L'Oreal.
The Kantar top 10 list pretty much matches the top 10 list that has been compiled by a Kantar competitor, Nielsen. The Nielsen list of top 10 ad spenders in the first quarter, also in descending order, is: Procter, AT&T, General Motors, Toyota, Ford, Comcast, Chrysler, Pfizer, Verizon and Honda Motor.
And like Kantar, Nielsen's numbers show that among the major media categories, ad spending declined in the first quarter in only one, newspapers, by 10 percent.

        
Yes, It Was a Bad Year for Ad Spending, But It Got Less Worse in the Fourth Quarter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (94%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (60%) Kantar Media; Advertising and Marketing; advertising

COMPANY: KANTAR GROUP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Kantar Media

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



500 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Saving Juice on a Philadelphia Subway Line

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: Batteries will capture energy that is generated when a train slows down, then deliver the power when the train needs it. 

 BODY:
 Subway trains need a lot of electricity to get going, turning electricity into kinetic energy, the energy of movement. When they pull into a station, many of them can do the opposite: generate electricity from their momentum. They turn their motors into generators to slow the train, producing current. 
But in many systems, some of that energy goes to waste because of a bottleneck: the third rail, which carries current to the train, cannot handle as much energy as the train is generating during deceleration. Too much current pushes up the voltage, and when the voltage gets too high, the electricity is dissipated by running it through a piece of metal that converts it into heat.
But in Philadelphia, on the Market-Frankford line of the Southeast Pennsylvania Transit Authority, a new company called Viridity Energy will install batteries to capture a lot of that electricity and hold it while the train is in the station. Then it can deliver the power when the train starts up again or store it for a time of day when it is needed more."Economically, it will identify what's the best thing for Septa to do, based on hours and prices in the market," said Audrey Zibelman, the founder, president and chief executive of the company, which is based in Conshohocken, just west of Philadelphia. 
Yet the batteries are fairly small. The whole installation stores only about 400 kilowatt-hours, which a house with central air conditioning could consume in a week or maybe less. But it can accept or discharge energy fast, at a rate of about 800 kilowatts -- enough to run about 800 window air conditioners going full blast. 
For short periods the battery pack can handle 1.5 megawatts. That's about half of the theoretical maximum that a train could put out while it was braking, according to Kevin Moreloc, director of the project. (The other half would go on the third rail system.) The amount of electricity the batteries will capture during each deceleration is small, two to four kilowatt-hours. 
The trick is that Septa has thousands of train stops a year, so the system will empty and refill quite frequently. They will hold less than a dollar's worth of electricity in each cycle but should save $135,000 a year for the transit authority, Ms. Zibelman said. The energy savings should reach 1,500 to 1,600 megawatt-hours a year, she said, enough to would run 1,000 suburban houses for a year. 
The batteries, to be built by Saft, a major manufacturer, will sit by the side of the tracks in a box that looks like a shipping container. Beyond capturing electricity, they will perform a second function: they will help keep the alternating current of the regional electric grid working at exactly the right rate. 
The system is nominally 60 cycles, meaning that the electrons reverse course 60 times per second, but in practice that varies from 59.999 to 60.001. When it strays from that range, someone has to add or subtract energy, a service that the grid operators will pay cash for. 
For technical reasons, frequency control is becoming more of a challenge; because natural gas-fired plants and wind turbines generally do not regulate the frequency of the grid as well as old-fashioned coal plants do, some experts say, the job is getting harder. In New York, one company recently opened a plant that does this regulation work with flywheels.
Viridity, which plans to go into operation by the end of this year, will be hooked up by computer to the operator of the regional power grid, PJM. (The letters used to stand for Pennsylvania-Jersey-Maryland, but the system now sprawls from Delaware to Ohio and beyond, covering parts of 14 states). Every few seconds, it can add energy or subtract it from the subway system's third rail network. That will change Septa's demand on the regional grid in a way that helps keep the grid at the proper frequency. 
A third company, Envitech of Pointe-Claire, Quebec, will supply the electronic control system. 
The project will cost $1.6 million, part of which will come from the Pennsylvania Energy Development Authority. Viridity says it will demonstrate that such projects can pay for themselves in savings.

        
A Private Network for Recharging Cars
        
Defying Planners, China's Utilities Cut Electricity Production
        
Can Batteries Replace Power Generators?
        
A Second Life for the Electric Car Battery
        
ARPA-E Is Poised to Put Products on the Grid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (65%); HVAC SYSTEMS (64%) Batteries; deceleration; electric trains; grid; Market-Frankford; Philadelphia; Southeast Pennsylvania Transit Authority; subway trains; trains; Viridity Energy; Conservation of Resources; Energy Efficiency; Subways; Transit Systems; Pennsylvania; Philadelphia (Pa); Business; Energy Economics; Science; Transportation

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pennsylvania; Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



501 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: A Bang-Up Night for Broadway, Even if the Wrong Play Won

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Day: Broadway has just completed an excellent season at the box office, and its importance as a money machine for the city seems hard to dispute. Also, what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs. 

 BODY:
On behalf of men who wear hats - real hats, that is, not baseball caps, and certainly not caps with visors facing backward - I want to express some dismay that the Tony Award for best play did not go on Sunday night to the only show on Broadway with "hat" on the marquee. You know which play this is, the one with a troublesome word in the title, something about a guy with unresolved oedipal issues.
Anyway, it's an engrossing play. Then again, Broadway had a respectable number of other worthy straight plays this season. It would be tough for anyone to lodge a serious we-wuz-robbed protest over the vote in favor of the puppet-centric import from London, "War Horse." 
To the surprise of absolutely no one, the award for best musical went to "The Book of Mormon," a success both critically and commercially. It, too, includes language that must have kept executives at CBS, which broadcast the awards show at the Beacon Theater, nervously drinking cans of Red Bull all night to make sure they were alert to a possible reprise of Melissa Leo's four-letter outburst at the Oscars in February. 
As usual, the Tonys show was intended not so much for New Yorkers as for people elsewhere in the country, the eternal hope being that they will come to appreciate the wizardry of live theater, even when Harry Potter is not on stage, as he is now in "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying." Many Americans do indeed get it. They're the main reason Broadway has just completed a bang-up season at the box office.
According to the Broadway League, the trade group for theater owners and producers, shows grossed $1.08 billion in 2010-11, or 5.9 percent more than in the previous season. Attendance was higher as well, by 5.4 percent over 2009-10.
 Broadway's importance as a money machine for the city seems hard to dispute. In the 2008-9 season, the last one with available numbers, the league put the theater industry's overall "economic impact" at $9.8 billion. The figure included dollars that went to mount shows and to maintain theaters, as well as spending on hotels, restaurants and souvenirs. While calculations of this sort may contain a measure of guesswork, and even prayer, there is no gainsaying that the theater district means big bucks - and tens of thousands of jobs - for New York. 
Out-of-towners, for the most part, make it possible. A demographic study by the Broadway League last season showed that 63 percent of all tickets were bought by tourists, bless their souls and their wallets. (But why does it escape so many of them that they're not at the movies? They have assigned seats. Can't someone tell them that they don't have to line up outside a theater like the Majestic, waiting and waiting and waiting, to get into "The Phantom of the Opera"?)
As healthy as things were at the box office, there is room for debating the degree to which Broadway is fertile territory for creative minds and independent spirits, "The Book of Mormon" and the hat play notwithstanding.
Of the 35 Broadway productions carried on Sunday in this newspaper's A B C's, an alphabetized listing of shows, only 12 could be considered original. The others were revivals, reworkings of material from other media and jukebox musicals gussied up for a boomer generation dying to relive its vinyl moments. Not that there's anything wrong with that. Shakespeare reworked old tales. So did Euripides, two millenniums earlier. But the words "truly original" and Broadway don't routinely appear in the same sentence.
And on Tuesday comes the most conspicuously reworked show of them all. It's already had more facelifts than an aging actor, and some of the most devastating write-ups since the Original Mets. Yes, "Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark" is scheduled to open that night, finally.
For full local Times coverage, including a plan to mount cameras on street-sweepers to make the summons-writing process more efficient, a look at judges who mediate to help settle malpractice suits, and the crescendoing calls for Representative Anthony D. Weiner's resignation, see the N.Y./Region section.
Here's what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs this morning.
On top of, perhaps aside from, his other problems (such as the surfacing on TMZ on Sunday of some unsavory self-portraits taken at the House gym), Mr. Weiner appears to be driving around in an unregistered sport utility vehicle with a different car's plates on it. [Daily News]
A photo purporting to show Joe DiMaggio naked in the clubhouse shower is being auctioned. But is it real? [Daily News]
The latest potential no-smoking zone: cars containing children. [Daily News]
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's picks for committees that screens judicial candidates include lots of big donors to his campaign. [Daily News]
A 15-year-old Bronx girl was shot in the head after confronting a group of young men who were firing guns in the air. [Daily News]
At least seven Republican state senators are ready to vote for gay marriage, The Post reports. (The Times also has an article profiling a few of them.)
The Port Authority police appear to have doctored an official report about a recent episode in which a suspicious package was found on a PATH train. [New York Post]
The Brooklyn borough president Marty Markowitz, emboldened by Mr. Weiner's spoiled mayoral candidacy, is "strongly considering" a run for mayor. [New York Post]
A puzzling trend of police officers pulling over and sometimes issuing tickets to women bicycling in skirts and other attention-attracting outfits. [Lovely Bicycle! via Runnin' Scared]
The mystery of the giant inflated phallic symbols of East Third Street. [EV Grieve]
A look back at the fancy Manhattan bakery that fed the 19th-century hungry and apparently give birth to the term "bread line." [Ephemeral New York]
One of Staten Island's most wanted has been on the run since 2005. [Staten Island Advance]
The Springsteen saxophonist, Clarence Clemons, 69, and the doomsday preacher Harold Camping, 89, both suffered strokes in recent days. [Star-Ledger, Gothamist]

        
A Piano Used to the Road
        
Officer Krupke, You're Historically Precise
        
TKTS Booth Opens in Downtown Brooklyn
        
Elizabeth Taylor on 'Someone' Similarly Named
        
On a Broadway Stage and Under the Gaze of a Star

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); TICKET SALES (86%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); FILM (72%); RELIGION (68%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Broadway; Theater; Tony Awards; Tonys; New York City; The Day

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



502 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Week Ahead: Budget Agreement

BYLINE: CARL HULSE


HIGHLIGHT: The House and Senate will both be in session this week for the first time in June with a focus on trying to make progress in the negotiations toward a budget agreement. 

 BODY:
The House and Senate will both be in session this week for the first time in June with a focus on trying to make progress in the negotiations toward a budget agreement.
As they convene Monday, lawmakers evidently won't have to contend with the spectacle of Representative Anthony Weiner, Democrat of New York, returning for votes after disclosures of lewd photographs he shared over the Internet. Though he is resisting calls to resign, Mr. Weiner has said he intends to seek treatment and take a leave of absence from the House.
Mr. Weiner will no doubt be a steady topic of conversation this week, but members of the House and Senate also have work to do as they move toward the Fourth of July and an August deadline for raising the federal debt limit.
Those participating in the bipartisan negotiations being steered by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. are scheduled to meet at least three times this week in hopes of spurring a breakthrough in the talks. 
Members of both parties have said they would like to get a deal done, particularly with the economy remaining sluggish. 
"Hopefully in the debt limit negotiations we can get a down payment on spending cuts and debt reduction," Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who chairs the Budget Committee, said Sunday on CBS's "Face the Nation." "I think that would help calm the markets and get us to a recovery."
In the Senate, Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, has managed to force a politically charged vote on cutting off tax credits for ethanol, an issue that unites Democratic and Republican lawmakers from corn-producing Midwestern states. The issue of ethanol always figures prominently in the Iowa presidential caucuses, making it likely that presidential contenders will be pressed on where they stand on the Senate vote.
Conservative advocacy groups are also divided on the issue, making the ethanol vote scheduled for Tuesday a complicated one for Senate Republicans.
In the House, lawmakers will finish consideration of the military construction-veterans spending measure to be followed by the agriculture appropriations bill. House members could also consider a patent law overhaul later in the week.

        
In Many Venues, Economy Will Take Center Stage
        
After New Hampshire, a Rapidly Changing Race

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); CALENDARS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ALCOHOLS (86%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (64%); RESIGNATIONS (56%); PATENT LAW (50%); PATENTS (50%) week ahead; Ryan, Paul D Jr; Weiner, Anthony D; Ethanol; National Debt (US); United States Politics and Government; House of Representatives; Congress

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); ANTHONY D WEINER (90%); TOM COBURN (59%); JOE BIDEN (58%) Ryan, Paul D Jr; Weiner, Anthony D

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



503 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Coming Right Back

BYLINE: MEG HENSON SCALES


HIGHLIGHT: Meg Henson Scales proposed therapy to help her husband, Jeffrey, recover from cancer. "I demanded that he go out and shoot," she says. 

 BODY:
Jeffrey Henson Scales, 57, a photographer and a photo editor at The New York Times, learned in 2008 that he had prostate cancer. Soon after his return from treatment in Toronto, Mr. Scales began taking pictures again - largely in Morningside Park and Times Square - at the urging of his wife, Meg Henson Scales, herself a photographer and writer. Running from Jan. 9 to Dec. 25, 2009, the pictures compose the exhibition "That Year of Living," presented by the organization Light Work. It is on display until July 10 at the Robert B. Menschel Media Center in Syracuse.
The photographs are best understood by reading Ms. Henson's essay, "Coming Right Back," which sets the context - hopeful and poignant - under which these quietly powerful images were made. An excerpt follows. The full text is on Jeffrey Scales Photography.
We bought the best digital S.L.R. available at that time, within our shrinking financial parameters. He fidgeted with it for a couple of weeks, before I demanded that he go out and shoot.
Jeffrey has been a street and commercial photographer for decades, but we went to Riverside Park, with the winter blowing cold off the Hudson. He immediately began shooting, and wandered off, toward the naked trees, the sky, the river, and atypically, avoiding people.
Yet the first images he took were at the bottom of the hill, at Morningside and 110th Street, where Morningside Park languishes, yet dangerous, like a fist, beneath Columbia University. The trees were stark, some naked. Are they dead? Thousands of trees die every year in New York City. We don't know if they're dead until spring, since they are indistinct from those simply hibernating. They stand together, leafless and potentially lifeless against gun-metal skies, or the ludicrous blue it can occasionally silhouette, a mirthless joke of our thanatophobia.
When we looked at the images, I was struck down by those leafless trees. I was leave-the-room weak from looking at those things that pointed at me in an accusing or, God help me, prophetic way. Still, they were mesmerizing and autobiographical. I recalled his romantic question from the lens of our circumstance. Could he come right back? Would he come right back?
He went back to work at The New York Times within a month, and shot on the street on his off times. Because of what we politely call our unpredictable bodily functions ("accidents"), I packed a small tight bag for him to leave at work, of a total change of clothing (which he never needed). I assured him that nothing could stand in his way (a lie). Yes, death is in all our paths, but if that, or an unanswered call to nature, meant that either of us had arrived at our destination, so be it. The letting go, ultimately, is still a freedom; even if it is one you'd rather avoid.
These early images were ghostly, some even ghastly, hard to behold. The Olds, who persevere here despite the growing economic burdens they represent to so many, trudge through crowds of Youngs and tourists alike; the bone of this place. These portraits of lived-in faces are surrounded by hordes of those whose lives seem to lie before them. Yet, we all share a common straddling of the chasm of mortality. Who, after all, is elderly? Is it the dying young, the centenarian, or those in the vast middle? None of us really know. We know from Rwanda, from Auschwitz, from the Lord's Resistance Army of children in Uganda, or World War I, where the flu epidemic stole millions of souls indiscriminate of ordnance.
One photograph Jeffrey made of the face in the crowd was of a woman. Her face hangs there, haunting. It scared me. Me! Me, who scares others; me who will not back down. Inside, I was in the fetal position in the corner, weeping. Outwardly, I was doing everything. When Jeffrey went back to work, it was as heroic as anything I've ever known. Tits up and eyes dry, I rediscovered another one of the things I love in him. He is willing to face that, the hard and the bad, virtually emotionless. I am only acting. He is better at it. In his rare cruelties, he is genuinely at his most truthful. He is my man.
As spring came, as the leaves returned to the trees, and the heavy dark coats gave way to the sexiness that spring fever brings, his images reflected it all. He reflected it. His color returned, along with our intimacy. His photographic jokes returned, his hard drives filled and stacked into terabyte visions. He had come right back. But we really don't come back the same. Just as he had come right back our first night together, we were different. We had warped scarily and magnificently into another us.

        
Love, Family and Change in Brooklyn
        
Andy Levin's Coney Island
        
The Renowned, Unknown Bruce Davidson
        
New York, New York, New York, New York
        
Footprints, Invisible and Not

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); PROSTATE CANCER (78%); PROSTATE DISEASE (78%); WRITERS (73%) Black-and-white photography; cancer memoirs; Jeffrey Henson Scales; Jeffrey Scales; Meg Henson Scales; New York City; Showcase; Photography; Scales, Jeffrey Henson

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



504 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1863 words

HEADLINE: Seeking New Energy to (Re)Focus the Nation

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A fresh search for young innovators seeking a sustainable energy menu

 BODY:
Focus the Nation, a youth-oriented nonprofit group aiming to propel a transition toward non-polluting energy choices, is preparing for Recharge!, an August retreat on Mount Hood in Oregon at which members of what I call Generation E will chart new ways to forge progress. The group is offering expenses-paid trips to the week-long meeting for five young leaders in each of four areas the group defines as "technicians, innovators, politicos and storytellers."
I've been in touch for awhile now with the group's executive director, Garett Brennan, whose open-minded approach to energy initiatives -- as well as to music -- long ago caught my attention. I did a short e-interview with Brennan that you can read below. First, here's the group's video call-out for candidates for the retreat: 
Here's my chat with Brennan:
Q. So it's been fun getting to know you, particularly given your musical and energy/climate sides. How long have you been focused on clean energy, and why? 
A. My path to passion for clean energy was through my music career, starting when I released my first album, Little Cottonwood, in 2004. 
To record and launch the album, I created a partnership with Clif Bar centered around common interests in organic foods, back-country skiing, music, mountains, clean water, etc. I was sitting with the creative team at Clif Bar's Berkeley headquarters in early 2004 -- designing a tour route based on farmers' markets around the country, sharing pictures of the old log cabin at 8,500 feet outside Salt Lake City where we planned to record the album, deciding who would be on point for tour logistics. Before we got into specifics, a Clif Bar colleague named Jeff said, "We love it, Garett, but before we hit the road with this thing and roll it out we want you to know that the biggest issue out there that drives every strategic decision we make, because it affects everything we do as a company-the farmers we work with, the orchards we source from, the powder we love to ski, all of it-is climate change and our total overdependence on fossil fuels." 
Up until that point, people I knew who really cared about protecting the planet and were active in trying to do something about it were mostly staging protests and signing petitions. It blew my mind that a multimillion-dollar company put this grounding issue at the core of its business. 
After we toured the first record, I began looking for opportunities to integrate the clean energy issue into whatever work I was doing. In 2007, I responded to a Craigslist posting seeking people to help launch a new project called "Focus the Nation." And I've been full throttle on the clean energy issue since then-with the exception of a brief sabbatical in spring/summer of '08 when I cut and released my second album, "Huckleberry Tree."
Q. I get the sense that there's a metamorphosis under way at Focus the Nation. If so, what's precipitated this?
A. For people who want to make the world a better place, we couldn't have asked for a better time to be alive. It's almost like we-the twenty- and early thirty-somethings-are coming of age at some weird potluck of every social issue staring us in the face: food insecurity, epic natural disasters, stock market crashes, three wars, droughts worse than the Dust Bowl, banks getting away with robbery, extreme poverty, corporate-purchased elections, rising childhood obesity, rising deficit, salmon run extinctions, flocks of birds dropping out of the sky, college debt surpassing credit card debt, you name it. It's overwhelming. 
But it also makes us wonder Why are we inheriting such a mess? There is an intense inter-generational questioning going on right now. It is in this deep questioning that I see a "metamorphosis" unfolding-one that runs the risk of fracturing the community of people trying to "fix" things-that goes beyond the usual "questioning the elders."
On one hand, the students we work with on college and community college campuses realize the enormity of the social and environmental dysfunction they are inheriting. On the other hand, as they dig into understanding it on a deeper level, they're learning that past approaches aren't producing results anymore. They have a tremendous confidence that they can actually do something about it if given the right opportunity.
This sets up a reckoning of sorts for some of today's elders who have been fighting the climate fight for decades. Will they continue to insist on the same approach from today's young people who want to help? Or will they shift into a support role, show the kids how to work the clutch, and let us drive the creation of new approaches to this very pressing issue?
It's a time for honesty and humility. We need elders wise enough to share the lessons of their failures.
Q. I'm convinced there is a Generation E out there (focused on energy, environment, equity, enterprise, education...), although it's still a small cohort. Is your impression of young people that they mainly reflect the divisions in society more generally or is there more going on down the age ladder?
A. There is a Generation E, but I would be careful about trying to define it. In some respects, it's not so much the "E issue" that's relevant, but the question of what role each young person is called to play. 
This "role factor" is at the heart of Focus the Nation's approach, and one we will be exploring on a deeper level during our ReCharge! Retreat this summer on Oregon's Mt. Hood. On August 21st, we'll bring together 20 students-five each in the categories of Innovators, Technicians, Storytellers and Politicos-from all across the country to spend one week together in a sweet old mountain lodge right in an area of the country that is accelerating toward an energy system powered by renewables.
While it's important for each young person to develop proficiency in the quadrant he or she is most drawn to, it's equally important that each knows how to collaborate with counterparts and draw on some of those skills.
Self-identified "Innovators" and "Technicians" are not going to march in the streets. But their sense of the world and their interest in clean energy solutions is just as critical as the "Politico" who does want to organize and agitate, or who has thought about running for office (which I'd rather see). 
The "Innovators" can learn a lot from the "Storytellers" about how to present discoveries in cool compelling ways that attract investors or partners or politicians to take them seriously. And the "Politicos" can learn a lot from the "Technicians" about, for instance, how the pads that the wind turbines sit on require a certain amount of load-bearing concrete that simply can't be shipped along small county roads that lead to new wind farm locations. Which then sets up a dynamic, relevant conversation between "Technicians" and "Innovators" to engineer a solution to address the issue of pad materials, the bonding qualities of the materials, the distribution and assembly, etc. - the nuts and bolts of a new energy economy that never make headlines. You see my point.
The students we're working with have strong desires to do things, build things, try things, launch things, solve things. Many of them are less about "fighting" the man, or the oil companies, or global warming. That doesn't mean they aren't fighting for their future.
The "fighting" approach hasn't been very fulfilling for many. When you're young, you inevitably have formative experiences, positive and negative. Positive experiences set us up for more good things down the road. Negative experiences tend to drive us toward choices that won't be painful, and a tendency to "cocoon" with like-minded people and information.
This won't work anymore. To solve big problems like climate and energy takes the skill to interact with sharply differing opinions, foreign ideas, and jarring perspectives. That stimulates creativity, breakthroughs and long-term collaboration-the positive experience of actually moving forward. The ReCharge! Retreat will be delving into a lot of this.
Q. I see little prospect of American politics (and I don't just mean Republican obstruction) allowing the country to break the shock to trance approach to energy that President Obama pledged to overcome, and that's separate from the tougher issue of constraining greenhouse gas emissions. Am I just a cynical aging reporter or... ?
A. Ha! Well, you're definitely a cynical aging reporter but that's okay, you've earned it. Young people are a natural resource that needs serious stewardship right now. We need the passion, leadership, imagination, and civic and technical proficiencies of young people to be a renewable resource focused on solutions over the next 75 years, not a political fossil fuel to be burned and discarded with every election cycle. 
A few months ago I dreamed I was in a stadium, in the nosebleed seats looking down at the "court." But it wasn't a court; it was the Senate or House floor. And everyone down below was yelling at each other, pointing fingers, barking red-faced, neck veins popping, beads of sweat falling all salty and slow like bombs we should never have dropped. As I looked down from my plastic cheap seat at the very tip-top, I was sobbing. I wasn't pissed. Wasn't angry. Wasn't pointing fingers. Just straight-up heartbroken that our democracy was so caught up in ego and turf that it had lost its ability to actually solve problems and take care of its people.
We can't keep throwing young people at the problems, we have to invest in them. At Focus the Nation, we've seen students come into our programs self-identifying as "technicians" and then eight months later, sharing that after the opportunity to speak publicly in front of business and elected leaders and lead a collaborative dialogue, they see themselves as "politicos" too, contemplating a run for town council when they graduate.
I don't have an answer on how American politics can get us from point A to point B on clean energy. The details are sticky, but what does make sense in that fog of uncertainty is aggressive investment in multiple solutions-with young people being one of them-centered on maximizing the chances for success. In a world without "magic bullets," we have to invest in the skills that teach people basic social problem solving.
Q. What do you think we (the human species) should be when we decide to grow up? (This question uses the framing I've employed on Dot Earth occasionally.)
A. Oh man. Monks with bows and arrows and Marshall stacks. Or maybe dinosaurs that can play the pedal steel, build cargo bikes, and stage dive at Arcade Fire concerts. I think that would be rad. Or maybe when we grow up, we'll finally learn how to throw totally righteous parties with crazy costumes and Jaeger ice luges that don't screw future generations out of their option to also throw a good party.
Seriously, the answer has a lot to do with simplicity, living within our means, and being better neighbors. And less American Idol.

        
Young Activists Seek Roles on Energy, Climate
        
'Generation E' - Innovating, Motivating
        
Generation E's Task: Protest or Invention?
        
While Gulf Soils, Energy Quest Stalls
        
Obama and 'Generation E' in Arizona

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); YOUTH MARKET (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); PETITIONS (74%); RECORD RELEASES (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SKIING (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); ORGANIC FOODS (50%) activism; energy; environmentalism; focus the nation; generation e; innovation; renewable energy; universities; youth; Obama, Barack; Air Pollution; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Colleges and Universities; Earth; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; House of Representatives; Oregon; Climate Change; environmental policy

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Oregon

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



505 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Republican Debate Prep: What to Watch For in New Hampshire

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Here are a few things to think about when watching Monday night's Republican debate.

 BODY:
2:13 p.m. | Updated The first Republican presidential debate of the 2012 campaign, held in South Carolina several weeks ago, produced precious little drama, in part because some of the major candidates chose not to participate.
Monday night's debate is likely to be different.
Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts and the front-runner in the Republican race to challenge President Obama, will make his first appearance in a national debate in this campaign. During this, his second, attempt at the nomination, Mr. Romney is all but ignoring his rivals and focusing his comments on Mr. Obama. But as a result, he enters the debate with a target on his back.
Taking aim will be Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, who has made it clear in recent weeks that he intends to cast the Republican contest as a choice between Mr. Romney and himself. In remarks over the weekend leading up to the debate, Mr. Pawlenty assailed what he called "Obamneycare," a reference to the similar health care plans designed by Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney.
Yet it remained unclear how aggressively Mr. Pawlenty planned to criticize Mr. Romney. Asked by reporters on Monday whether he would use the term "Obamneycare," Mr. Pawlenty said, "Probably not." "During the debate, I'll certainly respond to any of the questions that come up, but the point wasn't to take a swipe at Mitt Romney," Mr. Pawlenty said. "The object isn't to stir some kind of internal rift in the Republican Party. The focus here is to get Barack Obama out of the White House."
But others are eager to disrupt the Pawlenty-Romney dynamic. 
Representative Michele Bachmann, Republican of Minnesota, is eager to make an impression on the national stage. And after last week's staff defections, Newt Gingrich, the former Republican speaker of the House, is hoping to demonstrate that he remains a viable alternative to Mr. Romney and Mr. Pawlenty. Neither Ms. Bachmann nor Mr. Gingrich participated in the first debate.
A few notables will remain absent from the debate, which takes place at the Saint Anselm College in Manchester, N.H., and begins at 8 p.m. Eastern time.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, says he's still about 10 days away from an announcement and is skipping the debate. Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska, is conducting a bus tour but has not said whether she will run for president. And Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, is said to be seriously thinking about a run, but will not be in New Hampshire on Monday night.
Another candidate who won't be in New Hampshire on Monday is Mr. Obama, who will be in Florida instead raising money for his re-election campaign. But his views will be well represented at the debate site by Robert Gibbs, his former press secretary, who will conduct television interviews throughout the evening to respond to the expected Republican attacks. Mr. Gibbs said he planned to arrive in New Hampshire Monday afternoon.
So what will happen on Monday night? Debates have a way of surprising us - candidates make a gaffe or deliver a clever line that reverberates through the campaign. Sometimes several candidates find a way to gang up on a single rival (Mr. Romney?), and other times it feels as if everyone is on his own.
If you want to do some debate prep of your own, here are a few things to think about.
* Romney vs. Obama. Everything Mr. Romney has done in the past month suggests that he intends to portray himself as the inevitable choice of Republicans to challenge Mr. Obama, especially on the economy. In his announcement speech in New Hampshire a week ago, Mr. Romney said: "Barack Obama has failed America. When he took office, the economy was in recession. He made it worse. And he made it last longer."
On Monday, he doubled down on that message, releasing a striking Web video that mocks Mr. Obama's recent comment that "there are always going to be bumps on the road to recovery." The video shows people laying down in the middle of a road before standing up, looking into the camera, and saying, "I'm an American, not a bump in the road."
Look for Mr. Romney to try to keep the focus on Mr. Obama during the debate Monday night. But will his rivals let him do that?
* Pawlenty vs. Romney. Mr. Pawlenty remains toward the bottom of the early political polls as he has struggled to increase his name recognition. He and his advisers clearly believe that the best way to remedy that problem is to go after Mr. Romney.
To that end, Mr. Pawlenty has increasingly focused his campaign rhetoric on Mr. Romney, the front-runner. His "Obamneycare" comment on Sunday is the latest attempt to wound Mr. Romney in the eyes of conservatives who are already suspicious of him for having served a term as governor of one of the most liberal states in the nation.
The only question for Monday night is whether Mr. Pawlenty goes after Mr. Romney in his first answer, or if he waits until later in the debate.
* Bachmann's Introduction. Ms. Bachmann is not yet an official candidate in the race, but she has been acting like one. In her first debate appearance, the often bombastic, conservative lawmaker is hoping to present herself as a serious, viable alternative to the other candidates in the field.
Ms. Bachmann relishes her appeal to religious conservatives and the Tea Party movement (she is a founding member of the Tea Party caucus in Congress). But she has made a few stumbles in rolling out a likely campaign, including a video-based speech to Iowa Republicans that was widely panned.
Her challenge Monday night? To look presidential without losing the edge that makes her popular with her base.
* Newt's Return. Mr. Gingrich skipped the first Republican debate and has had a difficult month since. He angered Republican leaders by calling their budget proposals "right-wing social engineering." He was mocked for having a $500,000 line of credit at Tiffany's. And virtually his entire staff quit last week after Mr. Gingrich and his wife took a two-week vacation cruise instead of campaigning.
The question for Mr. Gingrich is this: Can a strong debate performance help reassure donors and supporters that his campaign is not teetering on the edge of collapse?
* The Lesser Knowns. Three other candidates will be on the stage Monday night. Representative Ron Paul of Texas is often a crowd pleaser, especially with libertarians. Herman Cain, the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza, sees Iowa as a place where his conservative views might gain traction, but he could use the New Hampshire debate to present a broader appeal. And Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, is hoping that his second debate performance will boost his name recognition.
* The Sideshow. Debates are primarily an opportunity for candidates to reach a large audience as they seek to offer a contrast with their rivals. But it also serves as a reason for outside groups to drive their messages in an environment rich with national news media. Monday will be no exception.
The Democratic National Committee has assembled a "rapid response" team in Manchester; Brad Woodhouse, the committee's communications director, sent a Twitter message Monday morning that he was "heading to Manchester, N.H., for the G.O.P. debate." Ahead of the event, the committee sent an e-mail with a Washington Post story about Mitt Romney. The subject line of the e-mail: "Mitt Romney. 'Whoever that is.' "
Other liberal groups based in Washington are also heading north for the debate. The Progressive Change Campaign Committee will run an ad on broadcast and cable television attacking Republicans for what they say are attempts to end Medicare. Another group, Protect Your Care, will do the same, showing ads that say "Stop the Republican Plan to Cut Medicare."
The groups hope to use the debate as a way to weaken the Republican nominee, whoever that is. Their target? The viewers that tune into the debate, but also the national reporters who will write about it.
Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Manchester, N.H.

        
Foreign Policy Looms Large as 2012 Election Issue
        
Lots of Talk, but Still No 2012 Republican Candidates
        
For Romney's Rivals, New Hampshire Is Crucial
        
Cheer Up, Republicans, the 2012 Field Isn't That Bad
        
For Republican Hopefuls, the Bush Primary Is Well Under Way

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL DEBATES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%) 2012; 2102 campaign; barack obama; CONSERVATIVES; debates; election; mitt romney; Republicans; tim pawlenty; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Debates (Political); Tea Party Movement; Republican Party; Manchester (NH); Elections; The 44th President

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); TIM PAWLENTY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RICK PERRY (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); JON HUNTSMAN (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%) Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (85%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Manchester (NH)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



506 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2824 words

HEADLINE: Live Blogging the G.O.P. Debate in New Hampshire

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR and TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: The two-hour debate begins at 8 p.m. Eastern time, and The Caucus will be live-blogging the full two hours.

 BODY:
Seven Republican candidates for president are set to take the stage in Manchester, N.H., for a debate Monday evening that will include questions asked by moderators, posed by live panels of voters, and submitted via Twitter and Facebook.
The two-hour debate, sponsored by CNN and The Union Leader newspaper and WMUR-TV in Manchester, N.H., begins at 8 p.m. Eastern time. The Caucus will be live blogging the full two hours, so come back to nytimes.com just before the debate starts and bring your comments and observations. 
John King, a CNN anchor, will moderate the debate and field questions from New Hampshire journalists. But according to a CNN news release, the candidates will have to answer questions from ordinary New Hampshire voters, as well.
"The debate will feature questions from New Hampshire voters inside the debate hall and potentially from town hall locations in Hancock, Plymouth, and Rochester, N.H.," the release reads.
In 2007, CNN and YouTube held a debate that included video questions submitted over the Internet. This year, questions can be posted to Twitter, the CNN Politics blog and Mr. King's Facebook page.
On stage this evening will be: Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts; Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota; Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House; Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota; Representative Ron Paul of Texas; Herman Cain, former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza; and Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania. 
Michael D. Shear is reporting from Washington. Trip Gabriel is reporting from Manchester.
10:13 P.M. | That's a Wrap
Thanks for joining us tonight as we live blogged the New Hampshire Republican debate. Come back to The Caucus Tuesday morning for some analysis of how it went for all of the candidates. Take a look at our debate fact check. And look to the New York Times Web site for complete coverage from Jeff Zeleny and Trip Gabriel, who are both in New Hampshire for the event.
-Michael D. Shear
10:12 P.M. | Wrapping Up on a Lighter Note
The debate has wrapped up on a bit of a lighter note. Mr. King asked the candidates which of their rivals on the stage they might pick for a running mate.
Mr. Romney said, "any one of the people on this stage would be a better president than President Obama."
Ms. Bachmann declined to say, offering, "maybe we will have to have an 'American Idol' contest."
Mr. Paul said: "I would have to do a bit more quizzing. They haven't even told me how they feel about the Federal Reserve yet."
Asked earlier whether Mr. Obama or Mr. McCain had made a better running-mate choice in 2008, Mr. Pawlenty did not hesitate.
"Senator Biden has been wrong about every major strategic decision," he said. "I think Governor Palin is a remarkable leader. I think she's qualified to be president of the United States."
Mr. King ended the debate by asking the candidates what they learned over the last two hours.
Mr. Santorum: "We've got a great field of candidates."
Ms. Bachmann: "I learned more about the goodness of the American people."
Mr. Gingrich: "Once again, New Hampshire is proving why it's first in the nation."
Mr. Romney: "New Hampshire is proving that the issue people care most about is getting this economy growing again."
Mr. Paul: "That we can talk about it and be civil to each other."
Mr. Pawlenty: Things will get better "if you trust the people."
Mr. Cain: "It's not about us, it's about the children and the grandchildren." 
-Michael D. Shear
9:57 P.M. | Foreign Policy Makes a Late-Game Appearance
The first questions about foreign policy and national security didn't come until more than an hour and a half into the debate.
When it did come, the father of soldiers asked whether it is time for the United States military to leave Afghanistan.
Mr. Romney said that it is "time for us to bring our troops home as soon as we possibly can," but said he would listen to his generals to determine when that withdrawal could start.
Mr. Paul - a long-time antiwar critic - disagreed. 
"I wouldn't wait for my generals," Mr. Paul said. "I'm the commander in chief. I tell the generals what to do."
-Michael D. Shear
9:49 P.M. | On Immigration, a Focus on Securing Borders
Immigration was a key issue in the Republican presidential primary in 2008, tripping up Senator John McCain, who supported a path to citizenship for those in the country illegally.
On Monday night, there was less disagreement over the issue as the candidates focused on the need for the federal government to secure the borders - or let the states do it for them.
"If the federal government won't do its jobs, in this case securing and protecting the border, then let the states do it and they will," Mr. Pawlenty said.
But Mr. Gingrich rejected the idea that Republicans must choose between kicking immigrants out of the country or granting them citizenship.
"There are humane practical steps to solve this problem," he said.
-Michael D. Shear
9:47 P.M. | Michele Bachmann on Gay Marriage and States' Rights
At one point Ms. Bachmann, who announced her entry to the race at the debate, seemed to be debating herself when she was asked if she would seek to overturn the law in states that have legalized gay marriage.
"I don't see that it's the role of a president to go into states and interfere with their state laws,'' said Ms. Bachmann, a favorite of Tea Party members who believe in states' rights.
But then, after some other candidates said that they supported a constitutional amendment defining marriage as between a man and a woman, she amended her answer.
"John, I do support a constitutional amendment on marriage between a man and a woman,'' she told the moderator, John King of CNN, "but I would not be going into the states to overturn their state law."
-Michael Cooper
9:39 P.M. | Republican Candidates: Conservative on Social Issues 
One takeaway from the New Hampshire debate? The Republican candidates for president are solidly conservative when it comes to social issues.
As a group, all said they would support a constitutional amendment to require that marriage be between a man and a woman. And all but Mr. Cain and Mr. Paul said they would work to reimpose the "don't ask, don't tell" policy that bars gays from serving openly in the military.
On the marriage question, Ms. Bachmann said she supported a constitutional amendment - something that would invalidate state laws allowing gay marriage - but then later said that she "would not be going into the states to overturn their state law." 
-Michael D. Shear
9:22 P.M. | Religion Makes Its Way Into the Debate
Should Muslims be asked special questions to determine their loyalty to the United States? 
That was the controversial question put to Mr. Cain Monday night after he indicated that he would do so if he was elected president.
He did not back away, saying, "when you interview a person you are able to get a feeling for how committed that person is to the Constitution." He added: "I would ask certain questions."
Pressed on the issue, Mr. Cain explained that "you have peaceful Muslims and you have militant ones, the ones who are trying to kill us."
"Those are the ones I was thinking of," he said, explaining his original comments.
He added: "I do not believe in Shariah law in American courts."
Mr. Romney agreed about Shariah, but offered a different view on the issue of special questions for Muslims.
"No, I think we recognize that people of all faiths are welcome in this country," said Mr. Romney, who is a Mormon. "We treat people with respect regardless of their religious persuasion."
Mr. Gingrich jumped into the debate, recalling the terrorist who attempted to blow up a bomb in Times Square. He said the terrorist had admitted to lying when he became a citizen.
"If you are not prepared to be loyal to the United States, you will not serve in my administration, period," he said. "We did this in dealing with the Nazis and we did this in dealing with the Communists."
-Michael D. Shear
9:16 P.M. | The Medicare Minefield
Perhaps the biggest political minefield for Republicans is what to do about Medicare. Mr. Gingrich found out how difficult the issue can be several weeks ago, when he criticized the plan put forward by Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin.
So, Mr. King asked Monday night, what would the candidates do about Medicare? 
Mr. Santorum and Mr. Cain both embraced Mr. Ryan's plan. Mr. Pawlenty danced around the question, saying "I am going to have my own plan, John, that will feature some differences from Paul Ryan's plan."
Mr. Pawlenty said that his plan would allow those on Medicare to stay on it, but would give others another option. And he used the question to criticize the president.
"You can't find him on these issues, he's missing," Mr. Pawlenty said.
Mr. Gingrich was given another chance to revise and extend his remarks on Mr. Ryan's budget. He said his words were "taken totally out of context," but added that Republicans should not force a solution on Americans.
"We all got mad at Obama when he ran over us" with the health care plan, he said. Mr. Gingrich then added that Republicans should not do the same with a Medicare plan.
-Michael D. Shear
8:57 P.M. | This or That?
Sure, viewers are learning what Tim Pawlenty thinks about right-to-work laws and Mitt Romney's position on the auto industry bailout.
But how many know that Michele Bachmann has the "Christmas with Elvis" album on her iPod?
To loosen things up a bit, John King, CNN's moderator, has been popping either/or questions to individual candidates leading into and out of commercials.
So now we know that New Gingrich would rather watch "American Idol" than "Dancing with the Stars." And Ron Paul has a BlackBerry on his hip instead of an iPhone.
One quesiton not likely to come up: boxers vs. briefs.
Here are the questions and answers collected in one place for your convenience:
Mr. Santorum: Leno or Conan? "Probably Leno, but I don't watch either, sorry."
Ms. Bachmann: Elvis or Johnny Cash? "That's really tough. Both. I've got "Christmas with Elvis" on my iPod."
Mr. Gingrich: "Dancing with the Stars" or "American Idol"? "American Idol."
Mr. Paul: BlackBerry or iPhone? "BlackBerry."
Mr. Cain: Deep dish or thin crust. "Deep dish!" Mr. Cain, a former pizza magnate, said emphatically.
Mr. Romney: Spicy or mild wings? "Spicy, absolutely."
Mr. Pawlenty Coke or Pepsi? "Coke."
-Michael D. Shear and Trip Gabriel
8:51 P.M. | Romney Questioned on Auto Bailout
One of the toughest questions so far went to Mr. Romney, who was asked to explain his opposition to the auto bailout that has successfully turned the American car industry around.
Mr. Romney repeated his explanation from several weeks ago, when he said that he opposed the money given by President George W. Bush and President Obama to the auto industry, but agreed with the bankruptcy process that the industry was forced into.
"The bailout program was not a success because the bailout program wasted a lot of money," Mr. Romney said, focusing on the $17 billion that Mr. Bush provided to the car companies.
Mr. King followed up by quoting from an opinion article that Mr. Romney wrote several years ago. "If General Motors, Ford and Chrysler get the bailout that their chief executives asked for yesterday, you can kiss the American automotive industry goodbye," Mr. Romney wrote.
Was he wrong? Mr. King asked.
"No I wasn't wrong," Mr. Romney asserted. "What they need to do is go through a bankruptcy process. It turned out that's finally what they did."
-Michael D. Shear
8:37 P.M. | Bachmann Announces
Ms. Bachmann, who has been exploring a presidential bid, used her first question during the debate to announce that on Monday she formally filed her paperwork to run for the presidency. 
- Michael D. Shear
8:36 P.M. | Tim Pawlenty, Crowd Pleaser
The strongest applause line yet? From Mr. Pawlenty when he said that he would support right-to-work legislation that would make unionization voluntary.
"We don't have a government tell us what organizations and association we should be in," he said after a loud round of applause for his comments.
-Michael D. Shear
8:28 P.M. | Romney and Pawlenty Hold Back
For those looking for a dramatic clash between Mr. Pawlenty and Mr. Romney, give the debate's moderator, John King, credit for trying.
He asked Mr. Romney directly about the term - "Obamneycare" - that Mr. Pawlenty used to describe the health care plans passed in Massachusetts and at the national level.
Mr. Romney largely ignored Mr. Pawlenty's comments, instead repeating his pledge to repeal Mr. Obama's health care plan and emphasizing the difference between that law and the one he signed in Massachusetts.
When Mr. King turned to Mr. Pawlenty for a response, sparks could have flown. Mr. King asked several times why he used the term "Obamneycare." But Mr. Pawlenty refused to take the bait, saying the term was meant to be a criticism of Mr. Obama, not Mr. Romney.
"President Obama is the person I quoted," he said, noting that Mr. Obama had once said Mr. Romney's health care plan was the inspiration for his own.
When Mr. King came back to Mr. Romney, he said that "my guess is the president is going to eat those words."
He added: "I can't wait to debate him."
-Michael D. Shear
8:26 P.M. | An Early Start to the Obama Bashing
In the first few minutes, all of the candidates are trying to prove they can be critical of the president.
Mr. Romney said flatly that "this president has failed" and said that when it comes to the economy, "President Obama has done it wrong."
Mr. Gingrich offered that "the Obama administration is an anti-jobs, anti-business, anti-America's energy industry."
Asked whether he could think of one thing that Mr. Obama has done right when it comes to the economy, Mr. Paul laughed and said, "That's a tough question."
He then added: "No, I can't think of anything."
-Michael D. Shear
8:16 P.M. | Candidate Introductions
The candidates started off with brief introductions. Here they are, summed up:
Rick Santorum: A senator for 12 years, and, with his wife, "parents of seven children."
Michele Bachmann: "I am a former federal tax litigation attorney," and "we are the proud foster parents of 23 great children."
Newt Gingrich: "When 14 million people are out of work, we need a new president to end the Obama depression."
Mitt Romney: Wants to make sure that "America is always known as the hope of the Earth."
Ron Paul: Wants to be known as the "champion of liberty and I defend the Constitution."
Tim Pawlenty: "I love America, but like you, I am concerned about its future."
Herman Cain: "I am not a politician. I am a problem solver."
- Michael D. Shear
8:02 P.M. | Candidates on Their Marks
The candidates have been introduced and the debate is about to get underway. Mr. Romney will be in the middle of the pack - sandwiched between Mr. Paul and Mr. Gingrich - but will he be the target of all six of his rivals? We will know soon.
Look for the economy to be the opening topic in the wake of the poor jobs numbers from a few weeks ago. All of the Republican candidates have seized on the rising unemployment rate as a key part of the case they would make against President Obama.
- Michael D. Shear
7:44 P.M. | The Scene in New Hampshire
MANCHESTER, N.H. - With about an hour to go before the start of the debate, the air in and around the hall where the action will unfold had an electric buzz -- for hard-core political fans - of the moments prior to the home opener of a big college basketball team.
In the sports arena where CNN had spent five days building an elaborate set, folding chairs with the names of the seven candidates awaited their invited cheering sections. A lone worker vacuumed newly laid red carpeting before the horseshoe-shaped stage.
Peripheral players took their positions outside the hall. Candidates' supporters waved their signs: "Mitt Means Business," "Ron Paul was a Teapartier Before It Was Cool."
In the press center across the campus of Saint Anselm College, hundreds of bloggers and print reporters, who would get no closer to the action than a television screen, were perched at folding tables in a gymnasium.
And then there were the V.I.P.'s who were also playing peripheral roles. George E. Pataki, the former governor of New York, checked in to the downtown Radisson Hotel in Manchester, where he planned to watch the candidates' showdown with invited friends. 
Mr. Pataki, who has been on few radar screens this year, hinted late last month that he might decide to run. "I'm going to look at the candidates and see if there's one who I believe has a serious plan to deal with the deficit and can win the election," Mr. Pataki said in a brief interview as he stepped out of the hotel. Asked if he is genuinely thinking of jumping in, he referred back to his previous statement.
-Trip Gabriel

        
Pawlenty Hopes 'I'm Sorry' Is Enough
        
Republican Debate Prep: What to Watch For in New Hampshire
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Video: The Week in Politics
        
Campaign Catch-Up: The Republican Candidates

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); WRITERS (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%) 2012; CNN; debate; mitt romney; Bachmann, Michele M; Paul, Ron; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Debates (Political); News and News Media; New Hampshire; Elections

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CNN

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); TIM PAWLENTY (89%); MICHELE BACHMANN (89%); RON PAUL (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Bachmann, Michele M; Paul, Ron; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (91%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



507 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Repeal the Tanning Tax!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: What do you think is the secret to customer service? We try to resolve problems the same day. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
BERNANKE SPEAKS, THE MARKET DROPS In a speech, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, predicts stronger growth ahead, but the markets do not believe him. Lawrence White, economics professor, says the Fed chief is just hoping for the best. Tim Duy tells us not to expect any more help from the Fed: "Federal Reserve officials accept the economy at face value - growth is slower than they would like, unemployment higher than they would like, but policy makers, fiscal and monetary, believe they are pretty much out of bullets." The federal budget deficit totals $929 billion for the first two-thirds of the year. And the world thinks we're hilarious.
THREE ECONOMISTS, THREE OPINIONS Martin Feldstein says the economy is worse than we think. Scott Grannis is encouraged by the decline in credit card delinquencies and healthier financial markets. Robert Reich just blames the Republicans. Obama's economic spokesman quits. (Me? I'm thinking of changing my religion.)
WILL WORK FOR BEER The National Federation of Independent Business says that job creation is collapsing on Main Street. But another survey says that small businesses are hiring. Gallup's Job Creation Index stays about the same. The research firm IBIS World identifies the top 10 industries that are hiring. The Bureau of Labor Statistics says there has been a net gain (PDF) of 1.2 million jobs over the last 12 months. And jobs are so tight in Silicon Valley that a firm is offering applicants $10,000 and a year's supply of beer.
COPING WITH STRESS An Associated Press analysis concludes that our economic stress is at a two-year low (but here's one exception). United States rail traffic rises. Record exports reduce the trade deficit. The Ceridian-U.C.L.A. Pulse of Commerce index falls. The forecast for Alaskan small businesses is promising. Iceland is the most peaceful place in the world. A National League of Cities survey shows glimmers of hope. Another survey says small businesses are cautiously confident.
GETTING RICHER, FEELING POORER A new study says that most Americans are not preparing for retirement; another finds that 44 percent will never invest again. But the top 1 percent are earning more income, and keeping more of it, than at any time since the 1920s. And household net worth increased $10 trillion in the last two years.
TWO AND A HALF BUSINESS MEN An Internet comedy series about entrepreneurs has its debut.
HEALTH CARE HERE AND THERE A new report says that taxes and health care costs put the United States in line with Europe. Ezra Klein says that government health care works: "Canada has a single-payer health-care system. The government is the only insurer of any note. The United Kingdom has a socialized system, in which the government is not only the sole insurer of note but also employs most of the doctors and nurses and runs most of the hospitals. And yet, measured as a share of the economy, our government health-care system is the largest of the bunch." Roger Chittum writes that Canada has lousy health care. A Rasmussen poll finds that 54 percent favor repeal of the health care law and 56 percent say the law will increase the deficit. States are slow to adopt to the transition. Perhaps eliminating playground equipment like this would reduce health care costs?
NO HAIR BRAIDS? I'M NOT CONCERNED The White House considers a payroll tax break. The Senate defeats an attempt to delay debit card fee reform. John Whitehead says a good thing came out of the recession: state park fees. House Republicans file a bill to repeal the tanning tax. A man gets cited for paying his bill with 2,500 pennies. Ryan Young's regulation of the day is about braiding hair.
GET OFF OF MY CLOUD! Bob Cringely says that Apple's iCloud is designed to kill Windows: "Apple and Google will compete like crazy for our data because once they have it we'll be their customers forever. This transition will take at most two hardware generations and we're talking mobile generations, which means three years, total. With no mobile market share to speak of and Windows 8 not due until 2013, Microsoft is likely to be too late to the party, with much of Redmond's market cap transplanted eventually to Apple and Google." A Microsoft vice president says the company is "far from the living dead" and continues to pursue important patents like flicking your pen.
MY MEMORY IS ALREADY DISABLED Skype goes down again. Citigroup gets hacked. Twitter can now automatically shorten URLs. Paul Mah says that disabling virtual memory is one of six ways to get a better laptop experience. Juniper projects NFC mobile payments will approach $50 billion globally by 2014. Many small businesses are developing their own apps.
REALLY? IT WAS JUST A STUNT? TechCrunch's Alexia Tsotsis explains what @RepWeiner can teach us about online life. John Jantsch explains how to use the Google +1 button. Patrick Schwerdtfeger tells us how to re-purpose our content online: Example: "You could even use a distribution platform like iSnare.com to get it on hundreds of article directories within days. Each directory will allow you to include a link back to your Web site so this strategy will result in hundreds of one-way inbound links to your Web site." The girl with 152 Facebook friends tattooed on her arm admits it was just a stunt. Speaking of stunts, there's no way this baby is for real, right?
NOT A FAN OF GROUPON Ilie Mitaru explains what's wrong with Groupon for small businesses. One example: "By offering your products or services at such steep discounts, you are implicitly saying that your company is willing to be flexible -- very flexible -- with the value you place on your products or services." The benefits of social media to small business are catching up to e-mail. Michael Schrage explains how we can manage ourselves better with our smartphones.
OUT TO LUNCH Robert Scoble is having lunch with Ashton Kutcher and needs some advice. My advice: do not invite this kid. Or, just grab a couple of million and lunch with Warren Buffett.
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE? Steve Landsburg takes a stab at why some hotels charge for Wi-Fi and others do not. Researchers at Kellogg Insight explain why we trust some people. Morningstar's Jascelyn Mackay reports that there's no 'Easy' button for office products distributors. Wray Rives explains the differences between a C.P.A., an enrolled agent and a bookkeeper. Ramon Ray says there has never been a better time to be a small retailer. Jeff Beals shares a lesson from the mall: "Today's harried shopper simply doesn't have the time to spend the whole day at the mall. Speed and convenience are critically important. Shoppers still want luxury and entertainment, but they have to be easily accessible and located close to homes or offices."
GREAT IDEAS (MOSTLY) Two new companies claim to reduce computer chip power usage and lower the cost of energy. A Wisconsin company gets $11 million to figure out a cure for cancer. A start-up gets $2 million, but no one seems to know what it does. Female prison inmates are taught how to start a small business. Many M.B.A.'s get a taste of the corporate life before venturing out alone. And just what the world needs: a Rocky musical!
THE WEEK AHEAD A busy week for data: retail sales (Tuesday), producer and consumer prices (Tuesday and Wednesday), building permits (Thursday), the Philly Fed manufacturing index (Thursday), the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment survey (Friday). And, no matter how mortifying your dad is, don't forget him Sunday.
THIS WEEK'S AWARDS
BEST CUSTOMER SERVICE LESSON An associate editor at Harvard Business Review learns the secret of customer service from, yes, an Amtrak employee: ""You'll just do that? Just like that? That's, that's amazing," I sputtered.
BEST IDEAS TO INCREASE REVENUE Dan Kennedy and Jason Marrs offer three ways to raise prices without losing customers. Example: "Upgrade your venue. The importance of context when it comes to buying can't be underestimated. The difference in price between a face cream sold at a Walgreens Co. store and one sold in the home by Mary Kay, or at a cosmetic counter at higher-end stores such as Saks or Neiman Marcus, or at an exclusive Parisian boutique can be disproportionate to the difference in the product's ingredients. The price is governed by the expectations of the consumer largely based on where they are buying it, the brand and the expertise of the salesperson -- not the product."
BEST EXCUSE TO PLAY GOLF Lou Dubois shares business lessons learned on the golf course, such as "contrary to popular belief, though, deals are rarely closed on the golf course. If you approach the round with that sole intention, you're likely to leave without a contract - and with a ruined relationship. Good things take time, and golf provides a relatively low-stress, tension-free look into business executives."
THIS WEEK'S QUESTION What do you think is the secret to customer service? At my company, we try to resolve problems the same day.
Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

        
This Week in Small Business: Is the Sky Falling?
        
This Week in Small Business: Oprah, Banks and Credit Cards
        
This Week in Small Business: T.G.I.M.
        
This Week in Small Business: Get Your Party Hats On!
        
This Week in Small Business: Profiting From Osama, Dealing With the Dollar

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); STATISTICS (65%); HEALTH CARE (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); CITY LIFE (62%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%) customer service; economy; Small Business; Computers and the Internet; United States Economy; dashboard

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) ALASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ICELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



508 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Best Political Quotes of the Weekend

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Miss the best of the political chatter over the weekend? The Caucus has gathered the quotes and clips you need to see. 

 BODY:
Miss the best of the political chatter over the weekend? Don't worry. The Caucus has gathered the quotes and clips you need to see.
1. Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, released a video early Monday morning that attacks President Obama's handling of the economy by seizing on a phrase he used during a speech: that "there are always going to be bumps on the road to recovery." The video begins with about two dozen people laying down in the middle of what looks like a desolate, rural road. Slowly, each one stands up, looks into the camera, and says, "I'm an American, not a bump in the road." Each one holds up a small, paper sign that says their name, occupation and "Stands with Mitt." The ad is a searing reminder of what Mr. Romney hopes to make the principal issue in the 2012 race - the economy's struggle to produce jobs. Mr. Obama, mindful of that, is headed to North Carolina on Monday for the latest in a series of events designed to highlight his administration's efforts to create more jobs.
2. Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, took aim at Mr. Romney over the weekend, coining the term "Obamneycare" to describe the health care plans that Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney both passed while in office. In an interview on Fox News Sunday, Mr. Pawlenty said that "President Obama said that he designed Obamacare after Romneycare and basically made it Obamneycare." He added that "what I don't understand is that they both continue to defend it." Mr. Pawlenty and his advisers clearly believe that linking Mr. Romney to the president's health care bill will prove damaging in the Republican primary.
3. The Republican field of presidential contenders is still in flux, but Jon Huntsman, the former governor of Utah, says he's almost ready to make a decision. Speaking on CNN's "State of the Union" on Sunday, Mr. Huntsman signaled that he will make a decision within about 10 days. "We're right at the end point. Is your family supportive? Yes, you check that box. Do you think you can rally enough financial support to make it happen? Yes, you check that box. You think on the ground in the key early states - New Hampshire, South Carolina and Florida - you can create the presence and the excitement and enthusiasm that will work? Yes, you check that box. We've basically checked all the boxes, and now we're moving." It's worth noting that he left Iowa out of that list of "key early states."
4. Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, and Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, faced off for the first time on NBC's "Meet the Press." One main topic? The troubles of Representative Anthony Weiner of New York. Mr. Priebus accused Democrats of waiting too long to call for Mr. Weiner to resign, saying "Now, it seemed to me that for the first 10 days in this circus that the only job that Nancy Pelosi was interested in saving was Anthony Weiner's." Ms. Wasserman Schultz said she waited until it was clear Mr. Weiner had been lying. "Once he crossed that threshold, acknowledged that, that he'd been lying, had engaged in conduct that is, you know, completely unacceptable and indefensible, that's where I thought that the - that's where I thought the line was crossed," she said.
5. During delivery of a commencement speech at Ohio State University, House Speaker John A. Boehner made fun of how often people mispronounce his name. Then he got chuckles from the audience by adding: "Thank God it's not Weiner."
6. Rick Perry, the Republican governor of Texas, has not yet said whether he will run for president this year. But in a speech in Los Angeles on Sunday, Mr. Perry took aim at Mr. Obama's social agenda, saying the president's position on stem cell research was not consistent with those who oppose abortion. "Every life is precious," he said, charging that Mr. Obama's policies on the research were "turning the remains of unborn children into nothing more than raw material."
7. Just a few days after most of his campaign staff quit, Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, said he "will prevail" in his bid for the presidency. Speaking to the Republican Jewish Coalition at an event in Los Angeles, Mr. Gingrich noted the controversies that had enveloped his campaign. "I know full well the rigors of campaigning for public office- in fact, I've had some recent reminders," he said, to laughter.

        
Cheer Up, Republicans, the 2012 Field Isn't That Bad
        
Which Presidential Video Works Best?
        
Pawlenty Hopes 'I'm Sorry' Is Enough
        
Romney Makes It Official, Quietly
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); JOB CREATION (67%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (64%) 2012; barack obama; mitt romney; Boehner, John A; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Weiner, Anthony D; Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Democratic National Committee; House of Representatives; Republican National Committee; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%) Democratic National Committee; House of Representatives; Republican National Committee

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIM PAWLENTY (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); ANTHONY D WEINER (73%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (58%) Boehner, John A; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Weiner, Anthony D

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012



509 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Two Views on Bank Rules: Salvation and Jobkillers

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Remarks by Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief, criticizing efforts to regulate banking highlight a contentious issue that is short on black and white arithmetic.

 BODY:
Jamie Dimon is frustrated.
In a surprisingly public demonstration of his aggravation, Mr. Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, unloaded last week on Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, critically questioning the government's efforts to regulate the banking industry.
"I have this great fear that someone's going to write a book in 10 or 20 years, and the book is going to talk about all the things that we did in the middle of a crisis that actually slowed down recovery," he told Mr. Bernanke at a televised meeting of bankers in Atlanta, ticking off a laundry list of new regulations like higher capital requirements and a tax on systemically important financial institutions.
"Do you have a fear like I do that when we will look back and look at them all, that they will be the reason it took so long" for our banks, our credit and our businesses and "most importantly job creation" to get going again?, he asked Mr. Bernanke. "Is this holding us back?"
His question, which was quickly cheered by traders on Wall Street, was dismissed by some in Washington and on Main Street as self-serving propaganda from a chief executive seeking less regulation and higher profits.
"I see a lot of amnesia setting in now," Sheila Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, told me during a conversation at the Council on Foreign Relations two days after Mr. Dimon's comments. "On obvious things like higher capital standards, I say full speed ahead and the higher the better." Making a veiled dig at Mr. Dimon, she added, "banks are not doing a lot of lending now, and the ones that are doing the better job of lending are the smaller institutions that have the higher capital levels."
Nearly three years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the prevailing wisdom is that we need tighter regulations to avoid another crisis. It's a popular view, one that this column has long supported. After all, if we don't adopt tougher standards now, then when?
I called Mr. Dimon, in part, to challenge his view. But I was somewhat taken aback by his response, which was far more nuanced than his seeming diatribe to the Fed chairman.
"My point wasn't that we shouldn't regulate the industry," he said. "But we should think twice about how exactly we're doing it and the cumulative impact of the changes if the main goal is to help create jobs."
The more restrictions put on banks, he said, the less lending and financing of businesses that will take place. To him, it's simple arithmetic.
"I want job growth like everybody else," he said. The problem, he contends is "we're trying to do two very different things at the same time," referring to regulating the industry and stimulating the economy.
"I would stop trying to solve every perceived problem at once," he added. "The highest and most important thing we can do right now is to get the economy growing and adding jobs."
It's easy to dismiss Mr. Dimon as another banker crying wolf. His firm has vigorously lobbied to prevent the Federal Reserve from raising capital ratios to 10 percent from 7 percent, fearful it will crimp lending - and probably profits (and yes, compensation.)
But it's also an uncomfortable truth that Mr. Dimon should be taken seriously, at least his suggestion that policy makers can't predict the full impact of the coming regulation.
"Jamie Dimon is right that it only makes sense to look at the effects of financial regulation holistically," said Kenneth S. Rogoff, an economics professor at Harvard University, and the co-author of "This Time is Different," which looked at financial crises over several centuries.
When Mr. Bernanke answered Mr. Dimon's question, he said, "Has anybody done a comprehensive analysis of the impact on credit? I can't pretend that anybody really has. You know, it's just too complicated. We don't really have the quantitative tools to do that."
That was an unsatisfying answer and an uncomfortable truth, too.
Indeed, Mr. Dimon may be right: Strict regulation could hamper the recovery in the short term.
But his comments also raise a larger policy and political question: Can we afford to risk another collapse of the financial system - even if it doesn't happen for another 100 years - by going lighter on regulation today? It's an idea, by the way, that is very hard for regular Joes to swallow.
Mr. Rogoff, whom Mr. Dimon has often cited, isn't so sure it is that black and white.
"My instinct is that the Fed must be right to push for raising capital requirements from 7 to 10 percent," Mr. Rogoff said. "Switzerland has already committed to the higher capital route and rather than hurting their banks, it might even have given them a competitive advantage, especially given the dodgy state of many European bank balance sheets."
Other academic studies have come to similar conclusions. Anat R. Admati of Stanford University wrote a compelling report, "Fallacies, Irrelevant Facts and Myths in the Discussion of Capital Regulation: Why Bank Equity is Not Expensive" that suggests that raising capital requirements is not as dangerous or costly as some on Wall Street believe.
Still, Mr. Rogoff acknowledged, "I don't see a big need to rush to raise capital requirements. If history tells us anything, it is that having a deep financial crisis is the best vaccine against having another one, at least for awhile."
In a perfect, less politicized world, perhaps we could follow Mr. Dimon's advice and wait to increase regulation until the economy is on steadier footing. (It's worth noting that most of the Fed's proposed rules and requirements already would be phased in over time.)
But will bankers - or even regulators and lawmakers - think the industry needs new rules when the economy and the job market are in full-on growth mode?
After all, the financial system only gets tested in times of crisis - at which point regulation comes too late.

        
How Dimon Played on Wall Street
        
What Dimon Told Bernanke

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); JOB CREATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%) Ben Bernanke; Dodd-Frank; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Federal Reserve; Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase &; Sheila Bair; Dimon, James; Banking and Financial Institutions; Labor and Jobs; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (67%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%) JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (93%); BEN BERNANKE (90%); SHEILA BAIR (57%) Dimon, James

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



510 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Fact Checking the Republican Debate

BYLINE: MICHAEL COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: As they debated the economic downturn and health care, the Republican candidates who faced off Monday night in New Hampshire sometimes let spin run ahead of the facts.

 BODY:
As they debated the economic downturn and health care, the Republican candidates who faced off Monday night in New Hampshire sometimes let spin run ahead of the facts.
Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, said that while President Obama didn't start the recession, "he made it worse, and longer." Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House of Representatives, called the Obama administration "anti-jobs."
While it is true that unemployment is far worse today than Mr. Obama's advisers initially predicted, it would be even worse without the stimulus bill that many Republican candidates derided, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. 
The president's advisers said in 2009 that the stimulus bill would keep the unemployment rate below 8 percent. Last month it was at 9.1 percent - even worse than the president's advisers had warned it would be if Congress had failed to pass the stimulus.
But things would have been worse without the stimulus, according to a report issued last month by the Congressional Budget Office. The stimulus increased the number of people working by between 1.2 million and 3.3 million during the first three months of the year, the report found. It added that the stimulus, which passed with almost no Republican support, lowered the unemployment rate by between 0.6 and 1.8 percentage points.
Health care also drew misleading or incomplete answers, as the candidates sought to capitalize on the unpopularity of President Obama's health care plan among Republicans. 
Mr. Romney flatly declared that he would "repeal Obamacare,'' although the president's health care law has strong similarities to the law that Mr. Romney pushed through when he was governor. The Massachusetts law, like the federal law, has a mandate requiring most residents to purchase coverage or pay a tax penalty - the provision that has drawn the most anger from conservatives. Asked about the similarities, Mr. Romney said at the debate that Massachusetts, unlike Washington, did not finance its plan with a tax increase. But since Mr. Romney left office in 2007, the state has had to raise taxes to keep the program afloat.
Tim Pawlenty, the former Minnesota governor, somewhat reluctantly, repeated his charge that the president's program was in effect "Obamneycare,'' since it was modeled on the Massachusetts law. But in making the attack, Mr. Pawlenty obscured his own changing position on mandates. In a 2006 speech on health care, he called mandates "potentially helpful" and "a worthy goal," though he stressed that by themselves they would not solve the problem of getting more people insured. He is not the only candidate with an evolving position. As recently as last month Mr. Gingrich said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that he had favored "a variation" on the mandate. The next day he issued a statement saying: "I oppose the Obamacare mandate. Period." 
At one point, Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, who announced her entry into the race at the debate, seemed to be debating herself when she was asked if she would seek to overturn the law in states that have legalized gay marriage.
"I don't see that it's the role of a president to go into states and interfere with their state laws,'' said Ms. Bachmann, a favorite of Tea Party members who believe in states' rights. 
But then, after some other candidates said that they supported a constitutional amendment defining marriage as between a man and a woman, she amended her answer. 
"John, I do support a constitutional amendment on marriage between a man and a woman,'' she told the moderator, John King of CNN, "but I would not be going into the states to overturn their state law."
Mr. Pawlenty stood by his recent economic proposal, which called for more tax cuts and seemed to rely on the American economy growing at 5 percent a year - a rate of growth that the country has rarely achieved except for brief periods, and that many economists have said was unrealistic. (Bruce Bartlett, who worked in the administrations of President Ronald Reagan and President George H.W. Bush, was dismissive of Mr. Pawlenty's plan, writing on his blog that "if he could actually do this he deserves not only the presidency, but the Nobel Prize in economics.")
"This idea that we can't have 5 percent growth in America is hogwash," Mr. Pawlenty said.
And Ms. Bachmann, may have given an overly broad picture of the Tea Party that helped propel her political career when she said that "the Tea Party is really made up of disaffected Democrats, Independents, people who've never been political a day in their life, people who are libertarians, Republicans.'' 
A New York Times/CBS News poll last year of backers of the emerging movement found that the 18 percent of Americans who identify themselves as Tea Party supporters tend to be Republican, white, male, married and older than 45. It also found that they hold more conservative views on a range of issues than Republicans generally do, and are more likely to describe themselves as "very conservative." 
Mr. Gingrich continued to send mixed signals about his support for a plan by House Republicans that would end the direct payments for medical care through Medicare, and overhaul the program to subsidize care.
He offended some Republicans last month when, asked about the program on NBC's "Meet the Press,'' he said, "I don't think right-wing social engineering is any more desirable than left-wing social engineering." 
In Monday night's debate, though, he said that he supported the House Republican budget "as a general proposal" before once again suggesting that "there are certain things" he would do differently on Medicare.
"If you can't convince the American people it's a good idea, maybe it's not a good idea,'' he said. " So let me start there."

        
Haley to G.O.P. Candidates: 'It's Go Time'
        
The First 2012 Debate Approaches. Or Does it? 
        
Romney Smiles, For Now
        
The Caucus Click: Mitt Romney in Derry, N.H. 
        
No Brawl for Republican Candidates Yet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX INCREASES (67%) 2012 presidential campaign; debates; Republicans; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; United States Politics and Government; Republican Party; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%) Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); TIM PAWLENTY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%) Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



511 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Plans Delay of Rule On Emissions

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency, facing intense opposition from Congressional Republicans and industry over a broad range of new air quality regulations, said Monday that it was delaying by two months the release of a proposed rule on greenhouse gas emissions from power plants and other major pollution sources. 
The delay of the rule, which will have a major impact on the nation's efforts to reduce emissions of gases blamed for the warming of the planet, is the latest step by the E.P.A. to slow the issuing of regulations that its critics claim will hurt economic growth, drive up energy costs and cut employment. The delay is a tacit admission that the regulations pose difficult political, economic and technical challenges that cannot be addressed on the aggressive timetable the agency set for itself early in the Obama administration.
The agency said it was pushing back the new greenhouse gas proposal to the end of September to allow more time to consider input from power companies, environmental advocates and others. Officials said they still expected to have a final rule in place by May 2012.Scott Segal, a utility industry lobbyist in Washington, said that the E.P.A.'s caution signaled an understanding that the new rule would have a profound impact on the price, supply and reliability of the electricity by forcing extensive modifications to, or the shutdown of, dozens of older power plants.
He noted that the agency had several other major rules pending that would affect power plant operators, including rules covering coal ash disposal, power plant cooling water, ozone and toxic air emissions from generating stations.
The E.P.A. is also working with the Department of Transportation and the state of California to develop a new mileage and emissions standard for cars and light trucks covering the years 2017 to 2025.
''This action admits the premise that the agency has literally overloaded itself with rule-makings,'' Mr. Segal said. ''They need to take more time.''
Frank O'Donnell, president of Clean Air Watch, an environmental advocacy group, agreed that the delay reflected a heavy workload for the agency. He expressed fear nonetheless that it was backtracking on critical air quality actions in the face of Congressional and industry pressure.
''The biggest concern is that this seems to be the latest in a pattern of delays as the E.P.A. remains under intense political pressure from Republicans and some Democrats in Congress,'' Mr. O'Donnell said in an e-mail message. ''E.P.A. has already delayed the important standards for ozone as well as for fine particle soot. And it has put its industrial boiler standards on ice indefinitely.''
''Every time E.P.A. announces a delay,'' he added, ''it seems to fuel the anti-regulatory engine of its opponents in Congress.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (63%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



512 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Yemen's Opposition Meets With Government Officials

BYLINE: By LAURA KASINOF; Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from Cairo.

 BODY:
SANA, Yemen -- Leaders of the political opposition met on Monday with Yemen's vice president, Abed Rabbo Mansour al-Hadi, and two other senior governing party officials here in the first known meeting between the two sides since the beginning of the year. 
The United States ambassador, Gerald Feierstein, had pressed both sides to meet after the attack on the presidential palace on June 3. President Ali Abdullah Saleh was seriously wounded in the attack, as were at least five other senior officials of the governing party. The following day, Mr. Saleh and about a dozen senior political allies were transferred to Saudi Arabia for medical treatment. In accordance with Yemen's Constitution, Mr. Hadi became acting president in Mr. Saleh's absence.
Both sides described the meeting as a first step toward reconciliation. The deep distrust between the parties has only grown worse since the popular uprising calling for Mr. Saleh's ouster began in January; bickering between the two sides has been a factor in preventing a resolution to the political stalemate in Yemen, which has left the country's economy on the verge of collapse.
The meeting did not necessarily indicate movement on a transition of power, or that a plan to end the crisis, which was brokered by a bloc of Persian Gulf nations and supported by Western governments, was going to be resuscitated. Meanwhile, questions continue to be raised about Mr. Saleh's health. Diplomats in Sana, the capital, and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, where he is being treated, said his condition had grown worse. But a Saudi doctor was quoted by a Yemeni news agency as saying that the president was improving.
Senior Yemeni officials are being kept away from him to avoid spreading the word, including at least one minister who flew to Riyadh to talk to Mr. Saleh, according to a Yemeni official who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the issue.
Hostility between the governing party and a coalition of opposition parties known as the J.M.P. is ''why he have this crisis,'' said Mohammed Tayeb, a leading official in the governing party.
One of the coalition's leaders, Mohammed Abdel-Malik al-Mutawakil, said that the coalition ''now wants to establish a link between them and us.'' For months, the opposition coalition had refused to meet directly with the governing party, but Mr. Saleh's departure has evidently caused a change in its stance.
After the meeting, Mr. Mutawakil said that when the opposition tried to discuss a transfer of power with Mr. Hadi, the vice president, ''he wanted to avoid being frank in that issue.'' Mr. Tayeb said that a discussion about a transition of power was not the purpose of the meeting.
The meeting was held at Mr. Hadi's home in Sana. The vice president has not moved into the presidential palace in Mr. Saleh's absence. Instead, Mr. Saleh's son Ahmed Ali Saleh has moved into the palace, creating serious doubts about whether the president's relatives who hold leading positions in the armed forces have recognized Mr. Hadi's leadership or would be willing to agree to a transfer of power from Mr. Saleh, who has been president for 33 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); POLITICS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (88%) INDIAN OCEAN (54%) YEMEN (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



513 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: $4.3 Billion Pledged at Vaccine Fund-Raiser

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Public and private donors have pledged $4.3 billion toward vaccinating children against a variety of diseases, according to the GAVI Alliance, which held its first fund-raising conference for vaccines in London on Monday. 
That exceeds the $3.7 billion that the alliance -- created 11 years ago as the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization to help poor countries pay for vaccines -- had hoped to raise. Some is matching money contingent on other pledges.
The target is to immunize more than 250 million children by 2015. Vaccines, medical experts say, save more lives than any public health measure other than clean water and sewage.
When GAVI was created, experts estimated that three million children a year were dying of vaccine-preventable diseases; that number has now dropped to two million.
Fifty countries have already applied for the funds, some of which will buy newer, more expensive vaccines against rotavirus, meningitis, pneumococcal disease, hepatitis B and yellow fever; the alliance also hopes to eventually add vaccines against cervical cancer, rubella, typhoid, Japanese encephalitis and other diseases.
Exactly how much the money will buy will be cannot be calculated because vaccine makers have been steadily lowering their prices as political pressure on them increases and as low-cost competitors, mostly from India, enter the field.
''Vaccines are absolutely brilliant value for money,'' Andrew Mitchell, Britain's secretary of state for international development, said at the news conference where the pledges were announced. ''For the price of a cup of coffee, it's possible to vaccinate a child against five killer diseases.''
Bill Gates, who helped create GAVI and whose foundation has given it more than $1.5 billion, said the new money meant ''we will be upping our sights'' on how fast new vaccines can be made and how many children can be reached. ''Eighty percent coverage is not nearly enough,'' he said, referring to how many of the world's children get the three most common vaccines, against diphtheria, whooping cough and tetanus.
The United States, which has given $647 million in the past, pledged another $450 million, pending Congressional approval. The British government, a sponsor of the pledging conference, gave $1.3 billion over five years, roughly doubling its previous donation. Australia, Norway and Sweden also doubled theirs, Mr. Mitchell said. Japan and Brazil pledged for the first time, as did some foundations and companies, like Anglo-American, the South African mining giant.
The financially strapped British government had recently re-examined all 43 agencies to which it donates foreign aid, Mr. Mitchell said. It froze or cut donations to some, but concluded that GAVI was one of the most cost-effective.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (93%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (90%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RUBELLA (78%); MENINGITIS (78%); TROPICAL DISEASES (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); WHOOPING COUGH (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); CANCER (73%); VIRUSES (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); BACTERIA (73%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); HEPATITIS (73%); HEPATITIS B (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); BIOLOGICS MFG (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); CERVICAL CANCER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); NORWAY (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (74%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011



514 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Pundit Under Protest

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
I'll be writing a lot about the presidential election over the next 16 months, but at the outset I would just like to remark that I'm opining on this whole campaign under protest. I'm registering a protest because for someone of my Hamiltonian/National Greatness perspective, the two parties contesting this election are unusually pathetic. Their programs are unusually unimaginative. Their policies are unusually incommensurate to the problem at hand.
This election is about how to avert national decline. All other issues flow from that anxiety. 
The election is happening during a downturn in the economic cycle, but the core issue is the accumulation of deeper structural problems that this recession has exposed -- unsustainable levels of debt, an inability to generate middle-class incomes, a dysfunctional political system, the steady growth of special-interest sinecures and the gradual loss of national vitality.
The number of business start-ups per capita has been falling steadily for the past three decades. Workers' share of national income has been declining since 1983. Male wages have been stagnant for about 40 years. The American working class -- those without a college degree -- is being decimated, economically and socially. In 1960, for example, 83 percent of those in the working class were married. Now only 48 percent are.
Voters are certainly aware of the scope of the challenges before them. Their pessimism and anxiety does not just reflect the ebb and flow of the business cycle, but is deeper and more pervasive. Trust in institutions is at historic lows. Large majorities think the country is on the wrong track, and have for years. Large pluralities believe their children will have fewer opportunities than they do.
Voters are in the market for new movements and new combinations, yet the two parties have grown more rigid.
The Republican growth agenda -- tax cuts and nothing else -- is stupefyingly boring, fiscally irresponsible and politically impossible. Gigantic tax cuts -- if they were affordable -- might boost overall growth, but they would do nothing to address the structural problems that are causing a working-class crisis.
Republican politicians don't design policies to meet specific needs, or even to help their own working-class voters. They use policies as signaling devices -- as ways to reassure the base that they are 100 percent orthodox and rigidly loyal. Republicans have taken a pragmatic policy proposal from 1980 and sanctified it as their core purity test for 2012.
As for the Democrats, they offer practically nothing. They acknowledge huge problems like wage stagnation and then offer... light rail! Solar panels! It was telling that the Democrats offered no budget this year, even though they are supposedly running the country. That's because they too are trapped in a bygone era.
Mentally, they are living in the era of affluence, but, actually, they are living in the era of austerity. They still have these grand spending ideas, but there is no longer any money to pay for them and there won't be for decades. Democrats dream New Deal dreams, propose nothing and try to win elections by making sure nobody ever touches Medicare.
Covering this upcoming election is like covering a competition between two Soviet refrigerator companies, cold-war relics offering products that never change.
If there were a Hamiltonian Party, it would be offering a multifaceted reinvigoration agenda. It would grab growth ideas from all spots on the political spectrum and blend them together. Its program would be based on the essential political logic: If you want to get anything passed, you have to offer an intertwined package that smashes the Big Government vs. Small Government orthodoxies and gives everybody something they want.
This reinvigoration package would have four baskets. There would be an entitlement reform package designed to redistribute money from health care and the elderly toward innovation and the young. Unless we get health care inflation under control by replacing the perverse fee-for-service incentive structure, there will be no money for anything else.
There would be a targeted working-class basket: early childhood education, technical education, community colleges, an infrastructure bank, asset distribution to help people start businesses, a new wave industrial policy if need be -- anything that might give the working class a leg up.
There would be a political corruption basket. The Tea Parties are right about the unholy alliance between business and government that is polluting the country. It's time to drain the swamp by simplifying the tax code and streamlining the regulations businesses use to squash their smaller competitors.
There would also be a pro-business basket: lower corporate rates, a sane visa policy for skilled immigrants, a sane patent and permitting system, more money for research.
The Hamiltonian agenda would be pro-market, in its place, and pro-government, in its place. In 2012, on the other hand, we're going to see another clash of the same old categories. I'll be covering it, but I protest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); STARTUPS (68%); TAX LAW (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



515 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Pick Played Role In Calamity

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Jean Saint-Jean and his wife own a modest brick home in Canarsie, Brooklyn, 10 miles and an incalculable economic distance from Manhattan, where fiscal cleverness is daily transmuted into riches.
A few years back, behind on their bills, the Saint-Jeans sought to refinance their mortgage with Emigrant Mortgage Company, a subsidiary of a bank established to help immigrants in a new land.
Emigrant refinanced without ever looking at their income, extending them a most risky loan that goes by the deceptively gentle name NINA (No Income, No Assets). The Saint-Jeans' interest rate jumped to 11.75 from 7.25 percent, and they faced monthly payments that the couple said were equal to 80 percent of their income. 
Their broker, they said, promised their rate would drop back to 6 percent. That did not happen. Instead, when the Saint-Jeans were late on a payment, it jumped to 18 percent.
That they now face foreclosure is unremarkable. Millions of Americans received toxic loans.
But Emigrant, as it happens, handed out a striking number of these problematic deals, leading to a spate of foreclosures in black and Latino neighborhoods. Emigrant is owned by Howard P. Milstein, a real estate developer, philanthropist and political donor. He showered $100,000 on Andrew M. Cuomo's gubernatorial campaign.
Late last month, Mr. Cuomo nominated him as chairman of the State Thruway Authority. The State Senate will consider the nomination on Wednesday.
''Mr. Milstein's world-renowned experience will help turn around an agency that had long been known for inefficiency and inaction,'' says Josh Vlasto, a Cuomo spokesman.
Mr. Milstein's spokesman said that his banking record was exemplary, and that to question it bordered on recklessness.
Well, O.K. , let's take a closer look.
Mr. Milstein, who declined to be interviewed, is a generous charitable giver. To be fair, his bank was not alone in handing out questionable loans. To walk the streets of Manhattan is to find evidence that pursuit of wealth is a consuming preoccupation
I marvel, though, at the indignation with which the city's wealthiest greet skeptical questions about actions the past few years. Many bankers have a glow of health, but hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers -- and millions of Americans -- look very sickly still.
TAXPAYERS treated banks kindly. During the financial crisis, Emigrant changed its tax status so it could receive a $267 million federal bailout. Fitch Ratings upgraded Emigrant from negative to stable, but Emigrant has yet to repay a dime.
Mr. Milstein's spokesman said the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation gave Emigrant satisfactory marks for investing in low-income neighborhoods and praised its no-income loans as innovative. The F.D.I.C., however, is free with such kisses -- it gave satisfactory ratings to some of the worst predatory lenders of the past decade.
South Brooklyn Legal Services, which has sued Emigrant on behalf of the Saint-Jeans, says it found that in 2008 Emigrant made 1.5 percent of all the refinance loans in the city, but accounted for 30 percent of the risky no-income loans. The result was calamitous. That year, 83 percent of the bank's foreclosures were on loans originated during the previous two years.
In a statement to The New York Times, Emigrant disputed these statistics as inaccurate and misleading but did not provide specifics. The bank, in legal papers, says it never engaged in predatory lending or discrimination and dismissed the Legal Services lawsuit as a tirade against subprime lending.
Emigrant also awarded lucrative bounties to agents who persuaded homeowners to take a high-interest loan -- the Saint-Jeans' broker received a payment of $1,387.
Mr. Cuomo served as housing secretary during the Clinton administration and spoke eloquently against such practices. It was unethical, he said then, for borrowers to unwittingly pay higher rates to cover bonuses. (His language proved stronger than his actions; under pressure from mortgage bankers, he declined to outlaw such practices).
All of which brings us back to the Saint-Jeans. He works at a public library, she as a health care worker, and they have four daughters. They have owned their home since 1995, and nearly all of their savings are tied up in it.
''Always we have a dream of owning a house,'' he says. ''Now I wake up in the morning feeling like I am choking.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (77%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); FAIR LENDING (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); PREDATORY LENDING (72%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); GOVERNORS (56%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (80%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (80%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (80%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



516 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Digital Flirting: Easy to Do, and Easy to Get Caught

BYLINE: By TARA PARKER-POPE

 BODY:
Representative Anthony Weiner may have taken it to an extreme. But the online flirtations and provocative photos that got him into so much trouble are far from unusual among adults these days, experts say.
What with Facebook friends, Twitter followers and Skype video chats, it is now all too easy to flirt with strangers and engage in sexual fantasy without (technically) breaking a marriage vow. Digital dalliance has entered the mainstream.
For instance, sexting - sending sexually suggestive text messages or photos, as Mr. Weiner did - is usually thought of as a teenage pastime. But according to a report from the Pew Research Center's Internet and American Life Project based on a representative sample of 2,252 adults, it is far more common among people aged 18 to 29. 
Nearly one-third of that group say they have received sexually suggestive or nude photos of someone they know, and 13 percent say they have sent them, the report said. Even among 30-to-49-year-olds, 17 percent say they have received such photos and 5 percent admit sending them. Similar Pew research finds that the comparable figures among adolescents are 15 percent and 4 percent.
''Given the alchemy of sex and lust and love and technology, it's not that surprising that the numbers are where they are,'' said Amanda Lenhart, a senior research specialist at Pew. ''Anecdotally, those of us who know single younger adults know people who do this.''
Nancy Baym, a University of Kansas professor of communication studies and author of the new book ''Personal Connections in the Digital Age,'' agreed. ''I think we tend to blame teenagers for behaviors that we're quite guilty of ourselves,'' she said. ''Grown-ups are certainly capable of doing really stupid stuff online.''
The data reflect the new rules of digital romance, in which flirtatious texts have replaced phone calls, and Web sites like Facebook have replaced high school reunions as a way to reconnect with an old flame.
''We use new technologies in romantic relationships all the time,'' said Dr. Baym. ''When two people meet and they're interested in developing the relationship, they go to text messages really fast as a way to safely negotiate the relationship.''
Therapists debate whether the Internet has facilitated more infidelity - after all, men and women have been betraying their vows since marriage began. Still, slight shifts in infidelity rates among young people and women suggest that digital media may be playing a role. Anecdotally, therapists report that electronic contact via Facebook, e-mail and text messages has allowed women in particular to form more intimate relationships.
''There's no question that the Internet has increased the availability of alternative romantic partners, whether it's flirtation, reuniting with old lovers or having texting sexual relationships,'' Dr. Baym said. ''The Internet dramatically expands the scope of potential people that we can meet.''
But while online communication may make it easier to cheat, it also leaves a digital trail that makes it more likely you'll be caught.
''I don't think the Internet is increasing transgressions, but it's leaving a trail that is very accessible,'' said Lois Braverman, president of the Ackerman Institute for the Family. ''In the 19th century there were letters; in the '60s and '70s there might be private detective photos or credit card receipts. What's different is that back then a transgression might have been discovered, but it didn't go viral.''
Some researchers believe that the widespread availability of pornography via the Internet has also led to an insidious change in attitudes about sex.
One study found that more than a third of Americans had visited an online porn site at least once a month, according to a 2009 report in The Journal of Economic Perspectives. That study analyzed subscriptions to one major provider of adult entertainment, finding a relatively even distribution of subscriptions across the country.
''By all indications it's pretty common,'' said the author of the paper, Benjamin Edelman, an assistant professor at the Harvard Business School. ''Just about anywhere you look, people are subscribing to online adult entertainment. It's something people do in every state, every county.''
Tom Hymes, a senior editor at AVN Media Network, a trade publication that follows the adult entertainment industry, said online sexual behavior had been part of the mainstream for years.
''My perspective is that Rep. Weiner was behaving well within certain online norms, as far as what we see happening on a regular basis,'' he said in an e-mail. ''But his huge mistake was thinking he could maintain his anonymity (if indeed he did) when he seemed to be doing everything he could to use his prestige as a congressman in his online flirtations.''
Erick Janssen, senior scientist at the Kinsey Institute, said more study was needed to learn how the Internet and digital media are shaping adult behavior and relationships.
''People who engage in behaviors like erotic chats, seduction, exhibition, it's probably indeed very widespread,'' he said. ''That the behaviors are there is hard to dispute. To connect that information with people's relationship status, their values, what their partner might think of it - that sort of thing we don't know a whole lot about.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART BRADFORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXTING (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); STATISTICS (74%); WRITERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



517 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Her $16,000 Town House, Now Available for Just $1.879 Million More

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
When Mildred Furiya moved to a 19th-century town house on State Street in Brooklyn from a cramped walkup in Greenwich Village in 1967, a boarding house known for prostitution stood across a barren street, groups of unemployed men hung out on the corner and the Brooklyn House of Detention was a defining presence a block away. Standing in the garden -- which functioned as a garbage dump for the apartment building next door -- her husband, George, was almost hit in the head by a plaster Madonna statue someone had thrown from a window.
The jail, on hiatus from housing inmates, still looms over State Street, but Mrs. Furiya's block, between Smith and Hoyt Streets, is much changed. 
Sunlight filters through the trees, the unemployed men are long gone and the boarding house prostitutes have given way to middle-class and affluent families. The apartment building that once abutted Mrs. Furiya's Italianate brownstone, which was declared a city landmark in 1973, is now a parking lot slated for nine new town houses, siblings to a row of 14 down the block that were among the first to sell for more than $2 million in Downtown Brooklyn.
And now Mrs. Furiya, 89, says the time has come for her to sell as well. Mr. Furiya died in 1994, her daughters have homes of their own, and she would like to live more simply: an apartment in the neighborhood or on the Upper East Side, perhaps, a place where she could walk around at night. She has also grown accustomed to being near the subway she rides to the classes in Sanskrit that help keep her mind agile and her outlook on life positive.
Given how values have climbed in the area, she said, ''I knew I could be provided for by selling the house and how it could benefit the children.''
It is the gentrifier's holy grail: a fixer-upper in a marginal area with potential. After the renovations, the lobbying for community improvements with like-minded neighbors, the holding on through the ups and downs, the scrappy, savvy buyer trades it in for a bigger, better place -- or cashes out and retires in luxury.
It happens all the time in New York, but not usually at as high a level as at 299 State Street, in part because Mrs. Furiya held on so long. She bought the house for $16,000 in 1966 with a cash gift from her father, the economist Alvin H. Hansen; her brokers, Ross Brown and Florence Ng of Citi Habitats, plan to list the house at about $1.895 million. A sale at that price would represent an increase of nearly 12,000 percent over 45 years -- or an annual return of about 11 percent.
And that kind of increase does not happen everywhere. It is often in neighborhoods with fast access to Manhattan's business districts, helped along by forces like rezonings and redevelopment plans, said Jonathan J. Miller, president of Miller Samuel, an appraisal and consulting company.
This has been the case in the neighborhood, where property owners have benefitted from proximity to the BAM Cultural District, the rezoning of Downtown Brooklyn and the redevelopment of land around Mrs. Furiya's house through a public-private partnership that brought in the new town houses and a mixed-use building with subsidized apartments, performance spaces and social services.
For Mrs. Furiya and her husband, the neighborhood's potential was clear, she said, abutting both affluence and poverty, with excellent public transportation and within walking distance of good private schools. But the public schools left something to be desired, so she made sure her daughters would be able to stay at Public School 41 in the Village before the purchase. For her husband, an electrical engineer who had studied architecture but was planning to live with sumo wrestlers in Japan as research for a novel he had in mind, the house became his creative project instead.
Over the years, the Furiyas scraped layers of paint off a half-dozen marble mantles, refinished the floors, laid slate tile in the kitchen and made a garden out back with gray stone walkways, bamboo, and a large, productive apple tree.
They were active in the neighborhood, she said, helping ward off the widening of Atlantic Avenue, encouraging the designation of the 19th-century town houses on the block as landmarks, and making friends with the other families and creative types -- including a drama professor and a stage manager for ''Hair,'' she said.
They quickly came to look upon the unemployed men on the corner as a built-in security force, a version of what Jane Jacobs called ''eyes on the street.''
''They were what some would call bums on the street, but they were more welcome than anyone to be here,'' Mrs. Furiya said. ''We realized we were lucky. No one was getting mugged walking from Flatbush to Court.''
There were inevitable stresses and conflicts, with political battles among neighbors, and couples divorcing, Mrs. Furiya said. Eventually, the original homesteaders began to sell and move away, often to be replaced by people who could afford to pay for their renovations all at once. One man, a poet, who had planned to put a loft bed over his front parlor door, never finished his house because a troubled relative stabbed him on State Street.
Now, Mrs. Furiya is hopeful that another buyer will see in the house what she and her husband saw so many years ago: a diamond in the rough -- albeit far less rough this time around.
''We live in New York, we live here adjusting, adapting, hearts hurting, helping, ignoring -- everything we do to live here,'' she said. ''On this block it all happened, from the best to the most tragic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mildred Furiya, 89, bought her town house at 299 State Street in Brooklyn in 1966 with a cash gift from her father, an economist.
 The Italianate brownstone was declared a city landmark in 1973. Its value has risen perhaps 11 percent a year since Ms. Furiya bought it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (90%); PROSTITUTION (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); PRISONS (77%); FAMILY (75%); LOBBYING (73%); SIMPLE LIVING (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



518 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Qaddafi Settles for a Draw, at Least in a Game of Chess

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS; Andrew E. Kramer contributed reporting from Moscow, and Dylan Loeb McClain contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
TRIPOLI, Libya - If not exactly a chess match for the ages, it was at least a deliciously emblematic contest that caught something of the curious, and often deeply eccentric, world of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, a man who has been known to want to pitch a tent for his comfort in Manhattan's Central Park, along with a host of other behaviors unusual in a national leader.
Captured on Libyan state television, the match was played on Sunday in Tripoli between Colonel Qaddafi and the president of the World Chess Federation, a Russian politician and one-time goat-and-sheep-herder by the name of Kirsan Ilyumzhinov.
No slouch himself when it comes to eccentricity, Mr. Ilyumzhinov, who since 1995 has been head of the chess organization, known as FIDE, has a reputation at home, beyond his activity as a world-traveling promoter of chess, as a believer in cosmic aliens, and as a disciple of the view, as he told The New York Times in an interview in 2010, that chess is ''a gift from extraterrestrial civilizations.'' 
Chess has had more than its fair share of eccentrics - Bobby Fischer comes to mind - but few matches have been played in more improbable circumstances.
Among the foreign press troupe currently quartered in a five-star Tripoli hotel, the buzzword as the tape was played and replayed on TV sets in the lobby and garden patio on Monday was ''wacko.'' Or to put it more gently: Here was the Libyan leader, nearly three months into a NATO bombing campaign that lately has been focused unapologetically on killing him, sitting down calmly and pensively for a game that prizes, above all, the ability of exponents to concentrate - to put aside the mundane distractions of life and ponder the complexities on the board before them.
Yet perhaps it wasn't so wacko after all. Pawn, rook, castle, bishop, king - the tactical possibilities numberless, the art of survival in beleaguered circumstances paramount, the sheer rapture of outwitting an opponent from an inferior position, all of this has made chess a favored game down the ages for emperors and monarchs, for courtiers and commanders, for all those who play for the highest stakes on life's big board.
And, make no mistake, Colonel Qaddafi is now in the tightest of corners - the wit and cunning that have enabled him to remain supreme for 42 years in the bearpit of Arab politics is being tested as never before, and the challenge involves nothing less than triumph or death. One wrong move, or one right one, or at least a series of good or bad choices, could spell the difference between an improbable survival and an ignominious end.
And indeed, the images from the Sunday afternoon match showed a man who appeared to be enjoying himself, or at least was capable of mild amusement. Colonel Qaddafi looked sombre enough as he arrived for the encounter, in oversize sunglasses, and dressed in his favored tribal garb, with a Bedouin blanket thrown over his shoulders. It was not clear from the TV recording - and perhaps it was not meant to be - who won the match, whether Colonel Qaddafi playing the white pieces, or Mr. Ilyumzhinov with the gold.
The Libyan leader took his time, finger to his forehead, as he contemplated his moves on the ornate wooden chessboard; the Russian was swifter and more casual. But the body language, the laughter and the handshakes at the end suggested there had been an outcome, and that Colonel Qaddafi had not found it too foreboding.
In any case, he walked away with a fold-up chess set proffered as a gift by his guest, perhaps something to pass the hours of the fugitive's existence he is now obliged to live under the NATO bombs. (A day later, Mr. Ilyumzhinov told Russia's Interfax news agency the match ''ended in a draw. I offered the drawn game. After all it is impolite to win when you're a guest.'')
People in Tripoli who claim inside knowledge of the matter have been saying for the past two or three weeks that Colonel Qaddafi, with his Bab al-Aziziya command compound and its network of underground bunkers and tunnels obliterated by NATO bombs and missiles, and even his tented desert camp outside the capital reduced to ashes, has been forced to move almost hour by hour, seeking sanctuary in hospitals, schools, museums and the homes of trusted regime insiders.
One common story has him abandoning his armored Mercedes-Benz limousines for much humbler transport, much in the style of Saddam Hussein before the first Gulf war, when the Iraqi leader was said to have ridden about Baghdad in the back of a battered taxi.
None of this was able to be confirmed, at least for a Western reporter, but the chess match did offer a few hints. For one thing, the room in which the match was played appeared to have been hastily, and only sparsely, furnished, with a scattering of sofas and chairs and little on the walls but a large black-and-white photograph of Colonel Qaddafi wearing a military uniform, in favored heroic pose. Ornate - the Qaddafi style before the Libyan revolt began in February - the setting was not.
The flat-screen television set - a fixture in every TV appearance the Libyan leader has made in recent weeks, always set to the state TV channel, apparently to demonstrate that the video of the colonel meeting and greeting visitors is contemporary, and not pulled from an archive - sat propped awkwardly atop a marble-topped table, tilted back against the wall, college-dorm style, as if nobody had time to nail a bracket into the wall.
For the rest, the meeting provided armchair analysts rich opportunities for speculation. Had Mr. Ilyumzhinov come to Tripoli as a mediator, with a proposal from the Russian government that could lure Colonel Qaddafi into abandoning power and fleeing into exile? The Russian Interfax news agency hinted at something of the kind when it said that Colonel Qaddafi had used the meeting to reaffirm that he had no intention of leaving Libya, the official position that is restated emphatically here at every turn.
My colleague Andrew Kramer, from the Moscow bureau of The New York Times, notes in a background message that Mr. Ilyumzhinov hails from a poor region of nomadic herders on the steppes of southern Russia, Kalmykia, an upbringing that would give him more than a little in common with Colonel Qaddafi, who was born into a family of dirt-poor Bedouin tribesmen hardened by centuries of survival as goat and camel herders in the Libyan desert.*
Like Colonel Qaddafi, the Russian rose from humble circumstances to become president of Kalmykia from 1993 to 2010. Again, like the Libyan leader, who is facing indictment by the International Criminal Court for war crimes, and has a long history of presiding over a government with a record of ''disappearing,'' torturing and murdering its opponents, Mr. Ilyumzhinov has his own dark past. As Mr. Kramer recalled, a journalist in Kalmykia who criticized the leader was assassinated in 1998, though Mr. Ilyunzhinov denied any involvement.
On top of this, Mr. Ilyunzhinov has been a frequent visitor to Libya, and organized a chess championship here in 2004. ''Though dismissed as a nut in Russia and indeed by his critics in the chess community because of his continual talk of aliens, he does have a long relationship with Colonel Qaddafi,'' Mr. Kramer says.
The Russian's ostensible reason for coming to Tripoli was to thank the Qaddafi government for promoting chess in Libyan schools, a mission that might have been deferred for more propitious times. So, odd couple that they made on Sunday, it is not beyond the realm of possibility that the two chess players had reasons of state, as well as recreational purposes, for their match.
That, at least, was the conclusion of Gazeta.ru, a Russian online newspaper with ties to President Dmitri A. Medvedev, who announced after a meeting with President Obama and other NATO leaders in Deauville, France, 10 days ago that Russia was backing NATO's call for Colonel Qaddafi to go into exile. ''The head of FIDE is fulfilling a role as an intermediary in the resolution of the conflict in Libya,'' the newspaper said.
That leads to the expert opinion of Sergei A. Karaganov, dean of the department of international economics and foreign affairs at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow, who told Mr. Kramer in a telephone interview that Mr. Ilyumzhinov ''is a publicity hound and could have gone to Tripoli without official backing just hoping to get in the news.''
All the same, Mr. Karganov did not rule out the possibility that Mr. Ilyumzhinov was playing a backdoor role in relaying Russia's message to Colonel Qaddafi that he should step down. Mr. Karaganov also said: ''It is plausible, because they are both of the same stripe. Mr. Ilyumzhinov is a soft and scaled-down version of Qaddafi himself. He is known for various and bizarre endeavors.''
*Readers might also be interested to know that Kalmykia is the only Buddhist region in Europe. The people are descendants on the Mongols, who, according to legend, were left behind when most of their fellows retreated to western Asia in the late 18th century. According to an account in ''The Lonely Planet Guide to Russia,'' in 1771, under pressure from encroaching Russian and German settlers, the Kalmyks planned to evacuate the region en masse on what their religion led them to believe would be an auspicious winter's night. When the night came, however, ''the ice on the Volga was not strong enough for those on the western bank to cross the river, so 20,000 out of 160,000 families stayed,'' and Kalmykia was eventually absorbed by Russia.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); BOMBINGS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); UNITED STATES (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



519 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Equatorial Guinea's Ambassador Objects

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''An Iron Grip in Africa, With Ties to the U.S.'' (Malabo Journal, May 31) presents an unrealistic and outdated image of Equatorial Guinea, a country that is struggling vigorously to become more free, to modernize itself and to provide a better standard of living for its citizens. 
In fact, developing our human capital, creating economic opportunities and improving living conditions are among our greatest challenges and our highest priorities as part of President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo's ambitious Horizon 2020 program.
We also face the challenge of making our system of government and our security forces more open, accountable and corruption-free. Our president has pushed for reform of the legal system, and the International Committee of the Red Cross has opened an office in the country to monitor our progress.
Your article cited an incident of torture that occurred in 1992 to reflect the reality of Equatorial Guinea today. It also repeats the canard that 77 percent of the population lives below the poverty line. Unfortunately, one of the current problems of Equatorial Guinea is that we still lack updated statistics in some fields, and there are no updated statistics on income distribution for any entity to cite. Many groups insist on repeating this false statistic, but none of them have cited a genuine source.
We have set a course to develop our human capital and our infrastructure. The pace of change may not be as fast as anyone wants, including us, but I challenge the world to watch as this country develops into a place where people enjoy the fruits of our petroleum riches without being robbed of their incentive to produce and to control their destinies.
ANATOLIO NDONG MBA Ambassador to the United Nations for Equatorial Guinea Washington, June 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POOR POPULATION (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); POVERTY RATES (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (54%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (56%); INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EQUATORIAL GUINEA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



520 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Renewable Energy vs. Fossil Fuels

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Gas Is Greener,'' by Robert Bryce (Op-Ed, June 8), claiming that vast amounts of natural resources are used to produce renewable energy:
Environmental organizations, including America's largest, the Sierra Club, have been engaging communities across the country to build support for renewable energy projects because the toll that fossil fuels take on our health, economy and climate has been devastating. Especially as technology evolves, it would be a horrible mistake to ignore the tremendous job-creating potential that exists in developing clean energy like wind and solar.
All development projects require careful planning to ensure good stewardship of our environment. Fortunately, there are ample opportunities to plan renewable energy projects ''smart from the start'' by carefully locating them in areas that avoid sensitive wildlife habitats or important natural and cultural resources. 
Seizing the opportunities presented to our country as we make a necessary transition to clean energy will require both cooperation and American ingenuity. Presenting false choices about renewable energy will only distract us from the important task that lies ahead.
VANESSA PIERCE Deputy Director, Sierra Club's Beyond Coal Campaign Washington, June 8, 2011
To the Editor:
Robert Bryce's caricature of renewable energy grossly exaggerates the resource demands of wind power while minimizing those of gas-based electricity.
Farmers and ranchers around the country till fields and graze cattle amid the wind turbines on their land. Each turbine takes up a quarter of an acre. If California used today's 3-megawatt turbines, it would need an area about the size of Central Park to site 8,500 megawatts of power -- hardly equal to 70 Manhattans. And it would create enough power for about 2.5 million California households.
Mr. Bryce also compares the steel demands of wind- and gas-based power. He does not mention gas-based electricity's share of the 800,000-plus miles of steel pipes used for gas drilling and transporting gas to market.
Wind turbines recover their full life-cycle energy inputs within the first seven months of operation. Gas plants are perpetual energy sinks. It's not hard to see which is the cleaner energy resource.
PHILIP WARBURG Newton, Mass., June 8, 2011
The writer is the author of the forthcoming book ''Harvest the Wind.''
To the Editor:
Robert Bryce vastly overstated the amount of land needed for solar and wind power. Solar panels can be placed on rooftops -- not requiring new land. More than 100,000 homeowners and businesses around the country have already installed rooftop panels to generate electricity.
Meanwhile, wind turbines, roads and support structures occupy only 2 to 5 percent of a wind farm. The area between the turbines can be used for other purposes, such as farming or ranching.
According to a peer-reviewed Union of Concerned Scientists study I co-wrote, wind and solar could meet 27 percent of America's electricity needs by 2030 covering 36,600 square miles, including the area between the turbines. That's only 1 percent of all land area in the United States.
Unlike natural gas, coal or nuclear plants, wind and solar plants don't produce air or water pollution, global warming emissions or waste products, and use much less water.
STEVE CLEMMER Director of Energy Research Union of Concerned Scientists Yarmouth, Me., June 8, 2011
To the Editor:
Robert Bryce is correct to highlight E. F. Schumacher's dictum that ''small is beautiful.'' We do not need vast new tracts of land to install solar and wind power. We have acres and acres of buildings that are perfectly situated for rooftop collection systems and ''small wind'' generation.
Not only does this avoid the disturbance of new land but it also generates the power in the same location as it is consumed, avoiding the need for long-distance transmission, with its inherent power loss and ecological footprint issues. Our society likes to think big, but the solution lies in small.
GUY GEIER Cranbury, N.J., June 8, 2011
To the Editor:
Robert Bryce makes some important points but overlooks one of the central benefits of renewable energy sources: they are renewable.
Mr. Bryce's cost-benefit analysis does not take into account the cost of nonrenewable fuels themselves. For example, natural gas turbines might be cheap to build, but running them requires a constant supply of natural gas, which is costly, and will only become more costly as it becomes more scarce. On the other hand, operating solar panels requires only sunlight.
Regardless, the cost issue is moot. If we rely on nonrenewable energy, we will eventually run out of fuel, at which point we will be forced to construct solar and wind installations anyway. In the end, we will only have postponed the inevitable for a little while, incurring vast economic and environmental costs in the process.
BRIAN SEEVE Boston, June 8, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY COSIMO GALLUZZI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); MAMMALS (77%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (75%); WILDLIFE (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (68%); HOMEOWNERS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); JOB CREATION (55%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



521 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Presses Africans to Abandon Authoritarian Rulers, Singling Out Qaddafi

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia -- Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton bluntly warned African leaders on Monday that authoritarian governments ruled by aging despots were ''no longer acceptable,'' saying that those who refused democratic reforms would find themselves ''on the wrong side of history.''
She also urged the African Union to end its lingering relations with Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. American officials have been deeply frustrated by the organization's efforts to mediate on behalf of Colonel Qaddafi, who for decades lavished support on African leaders -- many of them autocratic -- and led the group two years ago. 
She also called for a peaceful resolution of the fighting that has flared in Sudan ahead of the planned declaration of independence by South Sudan on July 9.
The violence, in the disputed territory of Abyei and increasingly in other regions along what will be the new border, has threatened to unravel a peaceful separation that the Obama administration worked feverishly to ensure over the last year. Mrs. Clinton called the recent fight ''deeply troubling.''
Talks aimed at resolving the dispute over Abyei took place in Addis Ababa over the last two days, with Sudan's president, Omar al-Bashir, in attendance. According to an American diplomat, Mr. Bashir agreed to withdraw his forces from the Abyei area before July 9, but the offer was heavily conditioned and no final agreement was announced.
Mrs. Clinton, on a five-day, three-country visit focused on trade and economic assistance to Africa, became the first secretary of state to address a session of the African Union, the regional organization created in 2002 that represents 53 nations on the continent, lacking only Morocco.
''Too many people in Africa still live under longstanding rulers, men who care too much about the longevity of their reign and too little about the legacy that should be built for their countries' future,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
Her speech echoed one in mid-January, just before the president of Tunisia was ousted in the first salvo in what became a wave of regional revolts. Then, she warned Arab leaders that their governments risked ''sinking into the sand'' if they did not change.
''The status quo is broken,'' she said Monday. ''The old ways of governing are no longer acceptable. It is time for leaders to lead with accountability, treat their people with dignity, respect their rights and deliver economic opportunity. And if they will not, then it is time for them to go.''
Mrs. Clinton did not specify any countries or leaders, but the United States has long opposed some of the most repressive governments, from Zimbabwe to Sudan. Representatives of the African Union's members, including Libya's, attended her speech in the conference hall of its headquarters here in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia's capital. She was greeted politely and even warmly at moments.
One of her most biting comments about leaders' attitudes -- ''Some even claim to believe in democracy defined as one election, one time'' -- prompted laughter.
In the case of Libya, Mrs. Clinton acknowledged that many members, though not all, disagreed with the military intervention in Libya led by the United States and NATO, but she urged all members to call for a genuine cease-fire and the departure of Colonel Qaddafi. She urged them to suspend operations of Libya's embassies, expel diplomats loyal to Colonel Qaddafi, and open channels to the Libyan rebels.
''Your words and your actions could make the difference in bringing this situation to finally close,'' she said.
The presence of Mr. Bashir, Sudan's president, raised the potentially awkward possibility that Mrs. Clinton might encounter a leader indicted by the International Criminal Court for crimes in another part of Sudan, Darfur. Mr. Bashir, however, left town before she arrived and did not attend the meetings at the African Union headquarters.
Mrs. Clinton did meet with representatives of both the north and south at her hotel in an effort to press for an agreement. One was an adviser to President Bashir, Nafi Ali Nafi; the other was the leader of southern Sudan, Salva Kiir.
Mrs. Clinton then had to abruptly curtail her trip. A volcano erupting in neighboring Eritrea sent an ash cloud that threatened to strand her in Ethiopia, so she departed late Monday night, canceling visits to a hospital and a school. A senior aide, Philippe Reines, said she promised to come back.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton dealt with a power failure as she spoke Monday in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. (POOL PHOTO BY SUSAN WALSH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); OMAR AL-BASHIR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (94%) AFRICA (97%); SUDAN (94%); ETHIOPIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); ZIMBABWE (79%); MOROCCO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



522 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Obama Offers Training Plan Designed for High-Tech Jobs

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
DURHAM, N.C. -- Confronting the challenge of running for re-election while the unemployment rate remains stubbornly high, President Obama convened a session of his new jobs council on Monday, offering a proposal to train 10,000 American engineering students a year in a program focused on filling high-tech jobs.
The program, which Mr. Obama unveiled during a visit to a lighting manufacturer here, would seek to marry private companies with colleges and universities in a bid to encourage students to focus on science, technology, engineering and math degrees. 
''Right now, there are more than four job seekers for every job opening in America,'' Mr. Obama said, in remarks at Cree Inc., which makes L.E.D. products. ''But when it comes to science and high-tech fields, the opposite is true: businesses like this tell me they're having a hard time finding workers to fill their job openings.''
In coming to North Carolina to promote his plans to keep high-tech, high-paying jobs in this country, Mr. Obama is trying to hang on to a state that he narrowly won in 2008. But highlighting the climb ahead for the president is North Carolina's unemployment rate, which was 9.7 percent in April, the 10th highest in the country. The overall national jobless rate in May was 9.1 percent, up slightly from the month before.
''The world has changed,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And for a lot of our friends and neighbors, that change has been painful. Today the single most serious economic problem we face is getting people back to work.''
After his remarks at Cree, Mr. Obama met there with members of the jobs council he created. Two members of the group -- Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chairman and chief executive of General Electric, and Kenneth I. Chenault, the chairman and chief executive of American Express -- laid out, in an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal on Monday, a few ideas the council is exploring to increase employment.
But none of the ideas, which included setting up job training initiatives, providing loans to small businesses and trying to increase tourism, contained any groundbreaking proposals.
''To truly bend the curve over the longer term, we need a more strategic view,'' the two men acknowledged in the article. ''Over the next 90 days, we will turn to addressing the actions needed to make a more significant, longer-term impact.''
They said they would deliver recommendations in September focusing on ''fast-growth'' companies, small businesses and the competitiveness of the country's infrastructure.
It was unclear how Mr. Obama planned to finance his latest jobs proposals. The administration is locked in a debate with Congressional Republicans over long-term spending and deficit reduction, facing an August deadline for a decision on raising the country's debt ceiling.
There was a touch of nostalgia to the president's trip on Monday; he visited the Cree headquarters here three years ago, when he was a senator running for the presidency.
Mr. Obama said his hair was grayer now. But, he added, ''I have a better plane so it's a fair trade.''
After North Carolina, Mr. Obama headed to Florida, another crucial state for his re-election hopes; he has scheduled several fund-raisers as part of his effort to raise a record $1 billion during this campaign.
On Tuesday, Mr. Obama is making a rare visit to Puerto Rico, as part of the Democratic Party's campaign to woo more Hispanic voters back in the mainland United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Ellen J. Kullman, the chairwoman and chief executive of DuPont, at a meeting of his new jobs council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (65%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: CREE INC (83%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

TICKER: CREE (NASDAQ) (83%); AXP (NYSE) (53%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (83%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); KENNETH I CHENAULT (58%); ELLEN J KULLMAN (58%); JEFFREY IMMELT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (74%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



523 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Nearly a Year After Dodd-Frank: President Obama must nominate -- and fight for -- top-notch financial regulators

 BODY:
Without strong leaders at the top of the nation's financial regulatory agencies, the Dodd-Frank financial reform doesn't have a chance. Whether it is protecting consumers against abusive lending, reforming the mortgage market or reining in too-big-to-fail banks, all require tough and experienced regulators.
Too many of these jobs are vacant, or soon will be, or are filled by caretakers. So it was a relief last week when President Obama said he had decided on a well-qualified nominee to be the new chairman for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and would make other nominations soon. The White House needs to move quickly and be prepared to fight. 
Much of the blame for the delays lies with Republican lawmakers who have consistently opposed qualified candidates. In the case of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, they have vowed to obstruct any nominee unless Democrats first agree to gut the agency's powers. Until now, the administration hasn't pushed back.
Mr. Obama's choice to lead the F.D.I.C., Martin Gruenberg, is a solid one. Mr. Gruenberg has earned widespread respect for his work as vice chairman of the F.D.I.C. since 2005. His confirmation could be eased by the fact that he is well known to senators from his long previous tenure on the staff of the banking committee.
Thomas Curry, reported to be under consideration to lead the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is also a strong choice. A lawyer, former state bank regulator and current F.D.I.C. board member, he has a firm grasp of federal and state regulation. That is a crucial attribute for running the historically antiregulatory O.C.C. If nominated, Mr. Curry's confirmation could be smoothed by the fact that he is a registered independent who was chosen for the F.D.I.C. by President George W. Bush.
It remains to be seen whether Republicans will just-say-no to even uncontroversial candidates like Mr. Gruenberg and Mr. Curry. Any potential fight pales compared to the one under way over the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau where, as ever, the Republicans are more interested in protecting bankers than consumers.
As their price for confirming a director, they want to vastly expand the power of bank regulators to veto the bureau's decisions and put controls on the bureau's financing that will make it more vulnerable to political pressure. They have also made clear their particular disdain for Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard law professor and prominent reformer who has been working as a presidential adviser to set up the bureau.
The White House has recently floated another possible nominee, Raj Date, a former banker who is now working with Ms. Warren. Mr. Date has an impressive resume, but not nearly as impressive as Ms. Warren's.
Why go with a compromise candidate when Republicans have vowed to block any nominee? Mr. Obama and Senate Democrats should back Ms. Warren and expose to American voters just exactly whose interests the Republicans put first.
Mr. Obama has been criticized for not doing battle for another excellent nominee, Peter Diamond, a Nobel Prize laureate in economics who withdrew his name after Republicans vowed to block him from the Federal Reserve Board of Governors. They said his background in labor economics made him unqualified, even though full employment is one of the Fed's mandates. Mr. Diamond clearly could have served ably, but Republicans were more interested in obstruction. It's past time for President Obama to take off the gloves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); VETO (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (56%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



524 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: The Courtship of Dollar Thrifty

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
For a second summer, there is an undercurrent of intrigue in the rental car industry as two big brands, Hertz Global Holdings and the Avis Budget Group, court the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group.
For now, Hertz is the twice-jilted suitor, while Avis Budget lies in wait, hamstrung by an extended regulatory review.
Travelers, though, are more likely to find suspense in a summer page-turner than this long-running courtship. ''The reality is, if you ask most business travelers who owns what, they wouldn't have a clue,'' said Neil F. Abrams, a longtime car industry executive and consultant. ''All they care about is continuity of the overall value proposition, meaning price and quality of service, and dependability of the brand they have an affinity for.''
Still, frequent travelers said they were concerned that with fewer players, car rental prices would go up. 
Last week, the board of Dollar Thrifty recommended that shareholders take no action on Hertz's latest proposal, valued at $72 a share, or $2.24 billion. ''Hertz's current offer does not represent a fair split of the economic value created by the combination of Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group,'' Scott L. Thompson, its chief executive, said in a statement.
The Hertz exchange offer for Dollar Thrifty shares, made on May 9, topped a bid from Avis Budget in September, now valued at $1.8 billion. The bidding first started in April 2010.
Dollar Thrifty, whose stock is trading around $80, up from 62 cents in March 2009, is in a position to be coy, analysts say. Some suggest the company could fetch up to $100 a share. In the meantime, Mr. Thompson said, ''We will be monitoring the antitrust regulatory process and other circumstances carefully.''
A spokesman for the Federal Trade Commission, which reviews mergers and acquisitions, and challenges those that would probably lead to higher prices and fewer choices for consumers, said the commission did not comment on pending investigations.
A spokesman for Avis Budget declined to comment.
Richard D. Broome, a spokesman for Hertz, said, ''We of course want to purchase the Dollar Thrifty Group at a fair price,'' adding, ''But at the same time, we have many significant ongoing initiatives to grow the business and provide even better customer service.''
No matter how the industry reshuffles, making a car rental reservation is no longer an afterthought, with rising gasoline prices, rental fees and taxes. The process takes much more planning than it used to. What is more, there will be more business travelers on the road this summer.
In its latest monthly review of reservations at big hotel chains in the top 25 markets in the country, the travel and hospitality company TravelClick found that summer business travel demand was up 7 percent from last year, based on reservations on the books. The business travel segment reflects travelers paying negotiated and nondiscounted retail rates.
''What we are seeing is a steady growth in business demand,'' said Tim Hart, executive vice president of business intelligence at TravelClick. ''As businesses travelers travel,'' Mr. Hart added, ''some portion are going to be renting cars.''
Don Metzger, president of Aniden Interactive, a digital design agency, said he, for one, would be doing so. ''Being out there and staying in front of clients and customers is probably more crucial today than it ever has been,'' he said.
Mr. Metzger said he had no allegiance to any one rental company, but he preferred four -- Thrifty, Dollar, Avis and Enterprise -- out of the 15 or so offered on sites like Travelocity. When he reserves a car, he said, he hews to the philosophy of acting as if he were spending his own money.
Recently, Mr. Metzger said he started using AutoSlash.com for business and leisure trips to find the lowest possible rate for a car rental. On a vacation trip to Maui, he said he saved nearly half on the price of an 11-day rental: He booked for $500 and the rate was ultimately reduced to $273. ''If you can be judicious,'' Mr. Metzger said, ''it makes sense.''
Jonathan Weinberg, founder of AutoSlash.com, which constantly looks for lower rates for its customers, said he had been watching the moves for Dollar Thrifty carefully. Some markets, like Los Angeles or Orlando, are more competitive than others, like the New York metro area, where there are fewer companies to choose from, he said. ''In the last year or so, people have been having sticker shock because of the price of a rental car,'' Mr. Weinberg said.
In the universe of rental car companies, there is variation in pricing based on brands and their target customers, according to Mr. Abrams, whose consulting firm maintains a weekly pricing index that aggregates rates from the major car rental brands at 10 big airports.
A traveler who booked a midsize car at those airports for use on June 13, a week in advance, for example, would have paid $85.61 at Hertz, $80.39 at Avis, $86.78 at National, $63.10 at Budget and $57.39 at Dollar, according to the Abrams index.
A traveler who reserved a compact car for a week would have paid $299.37 at Hertz, $286.49 at Avis, $296.81 at National, $226.56 at Budget and $212.81 at Dollar, the index found. The prices exclude taxes, fees and surcharges, which can add 25 percent or more to the base rate in some markets.
Any consolidation at the top would not change those variations significantly, Mr. Abrams said. Over 30 years, with many ownership changes, the competitive price positioning of the brands has not changed much.
So which suitor for Dollar Thrifty will come out ahead? From a business and regulatory standpoint, Mr. Abrams said, Hertz had the advantage because it was not directly competing for Dollar Thrifty customers.
Avis Budget does compete with Dollar Thrifty, so has a tougher hill to climb for regulatory approval, he said.
Chris Brown, executive editor of Bobit Business Media, publisher of Auto Rental News, said Dollar Thrifty was attractive to Hertz and Avis Budget, two publicly traded companies, as they sought to control costs to compete against the privately held Enterprise Holdings.
Based on a 2010 market data ranking, Enterprise, made up of Alamo, Enterprise and National, was the dominant car rental company based on fleet, locations and revenue. Hertz, Avis Budget and Dollar Thrifty follow. A combination of Hertz and Dollar Thrifty or Avis Budget and Dollar Thrifty would close the gap with Enterprise, Mr. Brown said.
That eventuality is far from certain, though. ''I do think that some deal will actually get made,'' Mr. Brown said, adding, ''But I certainly don't have a clue on how, and I think most people in the industry don't either.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carmen Costa, center, a Dollar Rent a Car worker, aided travelers at Newark Liberty International Airport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DiBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BRAND EQUITY (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (77%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); HOTEL CHAINS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); MERGERS (72%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (63%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (61%)

COMPANY: HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (96%); DOLLAR THRIFTY AUTOMOTIVE GROUP INC (84%); AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (58%); TRAVELCLICK INC (50%)

TICKER: HTZ (NYSE) (96%); CAR (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (96%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (96%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (96%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (96%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (58%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (50%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT L THOMPSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (59%) NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



525 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: 7 in G.O.P. Square Off, 7 Months From First Vote

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
GOFFSTOWN, N.H. -- Opening a new phase in a race to define the direction of their party, the leading Republican presidential candidates gathered Monday night for the first time to begin drawing distinctions among themselves in a vibrant competition to be seen as sufficiently conservative for primary voters, but electable enough to defeat President Obama.
The seven contenders, standing onstage here for two hours in a prime-time televised debate, repeatedly passed on the opportunity to seize upon the fissures that have roiled the Republican Party for most of the last two years. They presented a forceful, and nearly unified, attack against Mr. Obama, especially on the economy, the budget deficit and health care.
The spotlight was trained squarely on Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, who has come under withering attack for the health care plan he signed into law that resembles the plan Mr. Obama pushed through Congress. But his rivals treaded lightly, and he relentlessly turned the conversation back to Mr. Obama, emerging unscathed from his return to the debate stage four years after losing his first bid for the party's nomination. 
In one sign of how the candidates continue to develop and refine policy positions at this early stage of the race, Mr. Romney called for American troops to return from Afghanistan as soon as possible, declaring, ''Our troops shouldn't go off and try to fight a war of independence for another nation.'' He sought to press his credentials as a chief executive, arguing that he was best suited to promote a message of economic revival and job creation.
Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota who remains largely unknown to many Republicans across the country, highlighted his blue-collar roots as he sought to introduce himself as a leading alternative to Mr. Romney. He had coined a new word a day before the debate -- ''Obamneycare'' -- a term aimed at criticizing both Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama in a single breath, but when the debate got under way, he chose not to press the attack, apparently to avoid coming off as too negative.
The debate, which took place on the campus of St. Anselm College, just outside Manchester, provided the biggest opportunity for an introduction -- or reintroduction -- of many of the candidates. Each of the contenders had serious moments and enlightening exchanges in a lively forum that ended without any noticeable gaffes or missteps.
Newt Gingrich, whose campaign imploded last week when virtually his entire senior strategy team resigned, did not mention the controversy and sought to rebrand himself as the idea-driven policy candidate. But he exhibited a defensive tone from the outset, and at times lectured the debate moderator, John King of CNN, for how he characterized the responses.
Mr. Gingrich came into the debate facing continued criticism for appearing several weeks ago to speak against Representative Paul D. Ryan's proposed budget plan that would provide Medicare subsidies allowing seniors to buy their insurance in the private market.
Asked to address that criticism, Mr. Gingrich said his comments, against ''radical change'' on either side of the aisle, had been taken out of context. He said he supported Mr. Ryan's budget as ''a general proposal.''
But he seemed to repeat at least some of his critique. ''If you're dealing with something as big as Medicare and can't have a conversation with the country where the country thinks what you're doing is the right thing, you better slow down,'' Mr. Gingrich said.
The debate had the feel of the official campaign kickoff, if only because it was the first one to include the presumptive front-runner, Mr. Romney.
But two potential candidates did not show: former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr., of Utah -- until several weeks ago Mr. Obama's ambassador to China -- and former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, the Republican vice presidential nominee in 2008.
Underscoring how Ms. Palin's possible candidacy hangs over the field, she did figure in one question at the end of the debate, when Mr. King asked who made a better choice of running mate in 2008, Mr. Obama or Senator John McCain of Arizona.
Mr. Pawlenty took it as an opportunity to praise Ms. Palin, who has a loyal and motivated following. ''I think Governor Palin's a remarkable leader,'' he said, going on to criticize Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as ''wrong on everything.''
But Ms. Palin's absence created an opening for Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, who is similarly well liked by grass-roots Tea Party Republicans -- and whose supporters have sought to present her as more substantive and better rooted in policy than Ms. Palin is.
Ms. Bachmann made maximum use of her appearance, taking the unique step of using the occasion to formally announce that she was running for president -- until then she had been only exploring a run -- and to introduce herself as ''a former federal tax litigation attorney,'' as a businesswoman and as a mother and foster parent.
On Monday she seemed solid on her feet as she, for instance, criticized the United States' role in the NATO intervention in Libya as failing to forward ''any vital American interest.''
If Ms. Bachmann had any competition for the Tea Party vote, it came from former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, who said in response to a question, ''I think the Tea Party is a great backstop for America.''
Mr. Santorum is perhaps best known as a social conservative and has sought to establish himself as having a broader set of interests and skills in this early going during the campaign. Asked about his views on the separation between church and state, Mr. Santorum said: ''We get along because we know that we -- all of our ideas are allowed in and tolerated. That's what makes America work.''
Representative Ron Paul of Texas, enjoying newfound cachet because the Tea Party movement has taken well to his libertarianism, repeated his calls to end the Federal Reserve and cut military spending. But in that sense, he was a familiar presence.
Seeking to usurp Mr. Paul's role of 2008 as an unexpected voice was the former chief executive of Godfather's Pizza, Herman Cain. Mr. Cain, however, struggled when Mr. King questioned him about his past statement that ''a lot of Muslims are not totally dedicated to this country'' and that he would not appoint a Muslim to his cabinet without knowing his or her dedication to the Constitution.
Mr. Cain said he was uncomfortable ''because you have peaceful Muslims and then you have militant Muslims, those that are trying to kill us.'' He added, ''I was thinking about the ones that are trying to kill us, number one.''
Mr. Romney said: ''I think we recognize that the people of all faiths are welcome in this country. Our nation was founded on a principle of religious tolerance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Santorum, Michele Bachmann, Newt Gingrich, Mitt Romney, Ron Paul, Tim Pawlenty and Herman Cain at the debate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Backers of Representative Michele Bachmann turned out Monday in Manchester, N.H., along with those of Ron Paul and others. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUDGETS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); RON PAUL (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); MICHELE BACHMANN (73%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



526 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Two Views Of the Value Of Bank Rules

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Jamie Dimon is frustrated.
In a surprisingly public demonstration of his aggravation, Mr. Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, unloaded last week on Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, critically questioning the government's efforts to regulate the banking industry.
''I have this great fear that someone's going to write a book in 10 or 20 years, and the book is going to talk about all the things that we did in the middle of a crisis that actually slowed down recovery,'' he told Mr. Bernanke at a televised meeting of bankers in Atlanta, ticking off a laundry list of new regulations like higher capital requirements and a tax on systemically important financial institutions. 
''Do you have a fear like I do that when we will look back and look at them all, that they will be the reason it took so long'' for our banks, our credit and our businesses and ''most importantly job creation'' to get going again?, he asked Mr. Bernanke. ''Is this holding us back?''
His question, which was quickly cheered by traders on Wall Street, was dismissed by some in Washington and on Main Street as self-serving propaganda from a chief executive seeking less regulation and higher profits.
''I see a lot of amnesia setting in now,'' Sheila Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, told me during a conversation at the Council on Foreign Relations two days after Mr. Dimon's comments. ''On obvious things like higher capital standards, I say full speed ahead and the higher the better.'' Making a veiled dig at Mr. Dimon, she added, ''banks are not doing a lot of lending now, and the ones that are doing the better job of lending are the smaller institutions that have the higher capital levels.''
Nearly three years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the prevailing wisdom is that we need tighter regulations to avoid another crisis. It's a popular view, one that this column has long supported. After all, if we don't adopt tougher standards now, then when?
I called Mr. Dimon, in part, to challenge his view. But I was somewhat taken aback by his response, which was far more nuanced than his seeming diatribe to the Fed chairman.
''My point wasn't that we shouldn't regulate the industry,'' he said. ''But we should think twice about how exactly we're doing it and the cumulative impact of the changes if the main goal is to help create jobs.''
The more restrictions put on banks, he said, the less lending and financing of businesses that will take place. To him, it's simple arithmetic.
''I want job growth like everybody else,'' he said. The problem, he contends is ''we're trying to do two very different things at the same time,'' referring to regulating the industry and stimulating the economy.
''I would stop trying to solve every perceived problem at once,'' he added. ''The highest and most important thing we can do right now is to get the economy growing and adding jobs.''
It's easy to dismiss Mr. Dimon as another banker crying wolf. His firm has vigorously lobbied to prevent the Federal Reverse from raising capital ratios to 10 percent from 7 percent, fearful it will crimp lending - and probably profits (and yes, compensation.)
But it's also an uncomfortable truth that Mr. Dimon should be taken seriously, at least his suggestion that policy makers can't predict the full impact of the coming regulation.
''Jamie Dimon is right that it only makes sense to look at the effects of financial regulation holistically,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, an economics professor at Harvard University, and the co-author of ''This Time is Different,'' which looked at financial crises over several centuries.
When Mr. Bernanke answered Mr. Dimon's question, he said, ''Has anybody done a comprehensive analysis of the impact on credit? I can't pretend that anybody really has. You know, it's just too complicated. We don't really have the quantitative tools to do that.''
That was an unsatisfying answer and an uncomfortable truth, too.
Indeed, Mr. Dimon may be right: Strict regulation could hamper the recovery in the short term.
But his comments also raise a larger policy and political question: Can we afford to risk another collapse of the financial system - even if it doesn't happen for another 100 years - by going lighter on regulation today? It's an idea, by the way, that is very hard for regular Joes to swallow.
Mr. Rogoff, whom Mr. Dimon has often cited, isn't so sure it is that black and white.
''My instinct is that the Fed must be right to push for raising capital requirements from 7 to 10 percent,'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''Switzerland has already committed to the higher capital route and rather than hurting their banks, it might even have given them a competitive advantage, especially given the dodgy state of many European bank balance sheets.''
Other academic studies have come to similar conclusions. Anat R. Admati of Stanford University wrote a compelling report, ''Fallacies, Irrelevant Facts and Myths in the Discussion of Capital Regulation: Why Bank Equity is Not Expensive'' that suggests that raising capital requirements is not as dangerous or costly as some on Wall Street believe.
Still, Mr. Rogoff acknowledged, ''I don't see a big need to rush to raise capital requirements. If history tells us anything, it is that having a deep financial crisis is the best vaccine against having another one, at least for awhile.''
In a perfect, less politicized world, perhaps we could follow Mr. Dimon's advice and wait to increase regulation until the economy is on steadier footing. (It's worth noting that most of the Fed's proposed rules and requirements already would be phased in over time.)
But will bankers - or even regulators and lawmakers - think the industry needs new rules when the economy and the job market are in full-on growth mode?
After all, the financial system only gets tested in times of crisis - at which point regulation comes too late.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Last week, Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, publicly criticized government efforts to regulate banking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); JOB CREATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (90%); BEN BERNANKE (90%); SHEILA BAIR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



527 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
CLINTON PRESSES LEADERS
TO DEMOCRATIZE
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton bluntly warned African leaders that authoritarian governments ruled by aging despots were ''no longer acceptable,'' saying that those who refused democratic reforms would find themselves ''on the wrong side of history.'' PAGE A9
OPPORTUNITY IN SOMALIA 
It seems the conditions are finally ripe for Somalia's transitional government, which for years has been boxed into a tiny corner of Mogadishu, the capital, to assert itself. But many analysts are doubtful that Somalia's political leadership has the capacity or the will to seize the moment. News Analysis. PAGE A6
FISSURES AMONG PALESTINIANS
Fatah and Hamas so far disagree on who should lead a unity government, a possible sign of discord before talks scheduled to start in Cairo, prompting Palestinian officials and analysts to question the durability of the recent reconciliation agreement. PAGE A5
CHINA BACKTRACKS ON TRAIN
China's troubled Railway Ministry lowered the top operating speed for its flagship Beijing-to-Shanghai bullet train, which is set to open this month, scaling down what was supposed to be a pinnacle of a transformed rail system that has become one of the country's most ambitious domestic initiatives. PAGE A6
A HEZBOLLAH-HEAVY CABINET
Lebanon's new prime minister announced a long-delayed government dominated by members and allies of the Shiite militant group Hezbollah, a move likely to alarm Western powers. PAGE A8
National
ON THE BENCH,
CONSULTING THE DICTIONARY
A new study in The Marquette Law Review found that the Supreme Court justices had used dictionaries to define 295 words or phrases in 225 opinions in the 10 years starting in October 2000. That is roughly in line with the previous decade but an explosion by historical standards. In the 1960s, for instance, the court relied on dictionaries to define 23 terms in 16 opinions. Adam Liptak, Sidebar. PAGE A11
PLAN FOR HIGH-TECH JOBS
Confronting the challenge of running for re-election while the unemployment rate remains stubbornly high, President Obama convened a session of his new jobs council on Monday, offering a proposal to train 10,000 American engineering students a year in a program focused on filling high-tech jobs. PAGE A13
New York
4 STATE SENATORS SWITCH
TO FAVOR GAY MARRIAGE
Four lawmakers who just two years ago voted against legalizing same-sex marriage reversed course, saying that their thinking on the socially divisive issue had evolved, in a move that significantly improved the odds that New York will become the largest state in the nation to allow gays and lesbians to wed. PAGE A16
REPORT ON ABUSE CLAIMS
Roughly 40 percent of the allegations of physical abuse of the developmentally disabled at group homes and institutions in New York in recent months were not reported to law enforcement authorities, a senior state official said. PAGE A17
Business
BOEING LABOR BATTLE
IS POISED TO GO TO COURT
Barring a last-minute settlement, lawyers for the National Labor Relations Board will begin arguing before a Seattle judge that Boeing broke the law by building a new, nonunion production line in South Carolina instead of expanding its unionized operations in Washington State. PAGE B1
COURTING CAR RENTAL RIVAL
For a second summer, there is an undercurrent of intrigue in the rental car industry as two big brands, Hertz Global Holdings and the Avis Budget Group, court the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group. But frequent travelers said they were concerned that with fewer players, car rental prices would go up. PAGE B6
TRADER IS CONVICTED
Zvi Goffer, a trader nicknamed Octopussy because his arms reached into so many sources of information, was found guilty of insider trading, the latest victory for the government in a sweeping crackdown on insider trading at hedge funds. PAGE B5
Sports
HOLDING THE TROPHY,
AND HIS TONGUE
The Mavericks' star player, Dirk Nowitzki, used this N.B.A. postseason to shine and buff his reputation and legacy and so, too, did Mark Cuban, the team's outspoken owner. Cuban remained in the background this time, content to let the spotlight shine on his players. PAGE B10
Arts
A HOT TIME IN TENNESSEE
AT BONNAROO FESTIVAL
The 10th Bonnaroo Music & Arts Festival ended, and more than 85,000 people returned to civilian life, their ears ringing with too much music. It is a brand with a mysterious grip on young-adult Americans with mystical tendencies, and while the big festivals are starting to look alike, there is still no snob appeal to Bonnaroo. Critic's Notebook. PAGE C1
Science Times
SOCIAL MEDIA MODERNIZE
DISEASE HUNTERS' TOOLKIT
New technology is democratizing the disease-hunting process, upsetting the old equilibrium by connecting people through channels effectively outside government control. While the online chatter can be unproductive or even dangerous -- spreading fear along with misinformation about causes and cures -- a growing cadre of epidemiologists sees social media as a boon. Future hunts for pathogens may rely as heavily on Twitter streams and odd clusters of search queries as on blood tests and personal histories. PAGE D5
FOCUS ON EQUINE HERPES
The death of Chief, a highly trained performance horse found in his stall, unable to stand, was certainly a major emotional and financial loss for his owners. But his death was also a signal event for animal epidemiologists, almost certainly the first confirmed fatality in a highly unusual outbreak of equine herpes virus that apparently began at a cutting horse competition in Ogden, Utah, held in early May. PAGE D3
OP-ED
David Brooks PAGE A21
Joe Nocera PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); AL FATAH (74%); HAMAS (74%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (72%); MARRIAGE LAW (69%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); MARRIAGE (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (61%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%); HAMAS (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); AFRICA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011



528 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Unity Effort Shows Cracks as Factions Disagree Over Choosing Leader

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER and FARES AKRAM; Isabel Kershner reported from Jerusalem, and Fares Akram from Gaza City.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Fatah and Hamas so far disagree on who should lead a unity government, a possible sign of discord before talks scheduled to start in Cairo on Tuesday, prompting Palestinian officials and analysts to question the durability of the recent reconciliation agreement.
The Egyptian-brokered pact was reached unexpectedly and signed formally at a ceremony in Cairo on May 4. It was meant to end four years of schism between the mainstream Fatah, the dominant party in the West Bank, and the Islamic militant group Hamas, which controls Gaza, and the subsequent division between the two territories. 
Spurred by popular pressure for national unity and rattled by turmoil elsewhere in the region, the rival leaderships of the two territories pledged to resolve their differences. In addition, the Palestinian Authority president and Fatah chief, Mahmoud Abbas, has an interest in presenting at least a semblance of unity if the Palestinians move ahead with a plan to seek international recognition of statehood at the United Nations in September.
When it comes to working out the details of reconciliation, however, the sides seem to have become bogged down.
The first issue is the formation of an interim government of independent technocrats to be agreed upon by both factions. That government is meant to administer the Palestinian territories and pave the way for presidential and parliamentary elections within a year.
There has been little progress so far. This weekend the Fatah Central Committee, the party's main decision-making body, endorsed Salam Fayyad, the current Palestinian Authority prime minister, as their top candidate to lead the interim government. An American-trained economist, Mr. Fayyad is an internationally accepted figure who has gained the confidence of the West.
But Hamas has already rejected Mr. Fayyad's nomination, saying that the new prime minister should come from Gaza.
''For us, Fayyad is unacceptable because his name is connected with a black phase in the history of the Palestinian people,'' said Taher al-Nounou, a Hamas official in Gaza, who blamed Mr. Fayyad for deepening the split, closing Hamas institutions in the West Bank and pursuing security cooperation with Israel.
Both Fatah and Hamas figures said they thought the issue would not be solved in this next round of talks. ''There is no deadline,'' said Muhammad Shtayyeh, a member of the Fatah Central Committee, speaking by phone from Ramallah in the West Bank. ''We will try to finish things in this round, but I think it will take longer.''
Mr. Shtayyeh foresaw more problems in other appointments, like the minister of interior, who has responsibility for the security forces. He and others said these details would ultimately have to be resolved by Mr. Abbas and Khaled Meshal, the Damascus-based leader of Hamas.
Still, Palestinian analysts suggest that the problems may run much deeper.
''I am worried,'' said Mahdi Abdul Hadi, director of the Palestinian Academic Society for the Study of International Affairs, an independent institute in East Jerusalem, and one of a group of independent Palestinians who encouraged the unity accord.
''It is not a question of appointing a prime minister, but of the political will to share power. I do not see it,'' he said.
Hani Habib, an analyst based in Gaza, said: ''I do not think there is a real reconciliation. There is an atmosphere of reconciliation.'' But, he said, he sees ''a series of obstacles and a lack of determination'' on both sides.
Palestinian politics are fractious at the best of times, and there are also divisions within Fatah and Hamas. This weekend, the Fatah Central Committee expelled one of its members, Muhammad Dahlan, a former Fatah security chief who came from Gaza. The official Palestinian news agency, Wafa, said the committee had decided ''to bring Dahlan to justice based on criminal, financial and other charges made by a Fatah investigative commission.''
Mr. Dahlan has long been despised by Hamas; more recently he fell afoul of Mr. Abbas.
The delay in actually forming a unity government, keeping the reconciliation on paper only, may also be convenient for Mr. Abbas. Israel has rejected any dealings with a government backed by Hamas, and the Obama administration has expressed strong reservations about the reconciliation accord. The formation of a unity government could cancel any chance of peace talks with Israel and jeopardize American aid to the Palestinian Authority.
But some Palestinians expected at least a facade of unity to last. ''We cannot afford to fail,'' said Mr. Shtayyeh, the Fatah official. ''Palestinian unity is a crucial issue for our future. Without Gaza, there is no state.''
Egypt also remains a powerful player in the accord, and its interim government is likely to intervene to prevent a collapse of the deal, a prospect that may aid the Palestinians while aggravating tensions with Israel.
The two neighbors have long abided a cold peace. But with the fall of President Hosni Mubarak's government, Egypt's foreign policy has appealed more to the popular anti-Israel sentiment of the street, increasing tensions. Now, as the Hamas-Fatah talks play out, yet another development has emerged to heighten the tension: Egyptian authorities on Monday accused Ilan Grapel, an American-Israeli citizen in Egypt, of spying for Israel and ordered him held for 15 days.
A statement by Egypt's public prosecutor said Mr. Grapel, first detained on Sunday, had been sent to Egypt to recruit agents. Egyptian officials have also accused him of incitement during the revolution and of trying to create strife between Egypt's Muslims and Coptic Christians.
The Israeli newspaper Haaretz published an interview with Mr. Grapel in 2006 after he was wounded while fighting as an Israeli combat soldier in that summer's war in Lebanon.
The Israeli Foreign Ministry said on Monday that Mr. Grapel had entered Egypt on his American passport and was therefore under the jurisdiction of the American Consulate in Egypt.
''He is certainly no spy or spook,'' said Yigal Palmor, the spokesman for the Israeli Foreign Ministry. ''Why he was picked by the Egyptian authorities is beyond us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Salam Fayyad, the Palestinian Authority prime minister, in East Jerusalem last year. Fatah wants him to lead an interim unity Palestinian government, but Hamas has rejected his nomination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL FATAH (92%); HAMAS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); RELIGION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (93%); EGYPT (92%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



529 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.

 BODY:
A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.
The St. Petersburg Times: A smart enterprise piece about how Florida restaurants are changing their flaming-dish protocols after that bananas Foster incident that injured four. -- Sam Sifton
Chowhound: An entertaining thread on things that make you doubt the credibility of a cook: par-boiled ribs, pre-chopped garlic, long acrylic nails. Leads right into an interesting discussion of food snobbery. -- Julia Moskin
The Guardian: As an investment last year, high-end Bordeaux outperformed gold, crude oil and equities. -- Eric Asimov 
Environmental Working Group: A guide to pesticides in produce lists the fruits and vegetables with the most and fewest bug killers, with a clip and save guide. -- Nick Fox
Politics of the Plate: Meanwhile, the governor of Florida vetoes a measure that would help farm workers who were sickened by pesticides. -- Nick Fox
Specialty Food.com: As culled from traffic on social networks, blogs and forums, the hottest trend in the healthy food segment is citrus: the fruits, the flavors. Also more consumers are mentioning the somewhat exotic: satsuma, purple potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, kumquats, celeriac, holy basil, anise. -- Glenn Collins 
LA Weekly: In Southern California, the Roy Choi empire expands. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Guardian: In London, the mood becomes tense at a food market that traces its history back to the 13th century. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Wall Street Journal: In the wake of yesterday's news that Perkins restaurants were closing en masse in three states, the company files for bankruptcy. -- Sam Sifton
The Baltimore Sun: A fascinating look into the difficulty of reporting on fisheries crime, as Candus Thomson reports on citations for two Maryland watermen for poaching and undersized fish, and one of the captains writes in to respond in the comments. -- Sam Sifton
The Seattle Times: A remarkably detailed primer on digging for geoduck clams in Puget Sound. -- Sam Sifton 
The New York Times: Back in 1994, Pierre Franey cooked this dinner for four for $20. The ingredients will cost you more now. -- Sam Sifton
Nation's Restaurant News: -- Is a steakhouse glut a positive restaurant-economy indicator? Smith & Wollensky is opening a second Boston location this summer on the Atlantic Wharf overlooking Boston Harbor in a 10,000-square-foot space seating up to 120, the first expansion of the eight-restaurant chain in several years. -- Glenn Collins 
Tim Atkin: The British writer imagines a possible scenario that will mean the end of Bordeaux en Primeur. -- Eric Asimov 
Steve Heimoff: Apparently, anybody who criticizes California cabernet sauvignon as too fruity, too oaky, too alcoholic and too sweet is an insufferable whiner. The California wine writer vents. -- Eric Asimov 
JancisRobinson.com: The heralded British credential Master of Wine can be gained only after intensive study and a rigorous examination of knowledge and tasting skills. Here's a sample of the practical exam. -- Eric Asimov 
Ronnow Poetry: A great Jimmy Santiago Baca poem about green (and red) chile. -- Jeff Gordinier

        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); WRITERS (78%); INSECTICIDES (75%); PESTICIDES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); FISHERIES (74%); VETO (73%); TRENDS (72%); FARM LABOR (70%); NUTRITION (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%) What We're Reading

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



530 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Are Happy Countries All Alike?

BYLINE: DEAN ROBINSON


HIGHLIGHT: If you're the United States, happiness is having your people own a lot of homes, make a lot of money, go far in school, vote and try to get the work-life balance right.

 BODY:
Happiness is .
If you're the United States, it's having your people own a lot of homes, make a lot of money, go far in school, vote and try to get the work-life balance right. To a lesser degree, employment rates and low pollution are valued too, but things like health and communal feelings - not so much. At least, that seems to be the rough formula for the U.S. to maximize its well-being and out-happy the 33 other member-nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Just look at the screen grab above: there we are at the top of the slope. U-S-A! U-S-A!
It's a tenuous perch. Stop by the OECD Better Life Initiative, which was released last month, and decide you want to increase the significance of "community" a little bit, and suddenly the U.S. slides down behind Sweden, Canada and Australia. Decide none of the 11 given criteria matter except "safety," and now the U.S. is sixth from the bottom. (Thanks to a murder rate that is one of the worst in the O.E.C.D.) But Iceland sure seems the sanctuary.
I doubt it's possible to visit this site and not spend a lot of time fiddling with these stereo-amp-like settings. Go ahead, turn up "income" to 11 and see which country ascends to the peak: Luxembourg! (F.Y.I., the Grand Duchy of Fenwick appears to have been left out of the O.E.C.D.) For this database, average American household wealth is estimated to be $98,440, which is good enough for No. 2 - but still pretty far off the Luxembourgian average of $200,797. (The average household wealth for all O.E.C.D. nations is $36,808.) Rate "environment" as the most important factor in national well-being - the barometer here seems to be based on air pollution - and Sweden is the place to be, Chile the place to flee. (The U.S. is right in the - happy? - middle.)
The Better Life Initiative is more than another C.I.A. World Factbook to be plundered for fun cocktail facts or school projects. It's part of broader and quite serious movement to get beyond gross domestic product as the sole determinant of how a country and its people are doing. A little over a year ago in the magazine, Jon Gertner wrote of G.D.P.: "It's a figure that compresses the immensity of a national economy into a single data point of surpassing density. The conventional feeling about G.D.P. is that the more it grows, the better a country and its citizens are doing." But Gertner hinted at how this single measure can fall short of social reality by imagining two very different citizens, High-G.D.P. Man and Low G.D.P. Man.
High-G.D.P. Man has a long commute to work and drives an automobile that gets poor gas mileage, forcing him to spend a lot on fuel. The morning traffic and its stresses aren't too good for his car (which he replaces every few years) or his cardiovascular health (which he treats with expensive pharmaceuticals and medical procedures). High-G.D.P. Man works hard, spends hard. He loves going to bars and restaurants, likes his flat-screen televisions and adores his big house, which he keeps at 71 degrees year round and protects with a state-of-the-art security system. High-G.D.P. Man and his wife pay for a sitter (for their kids) and a nursing home (for their aging parents). They don't have time for housework, so they employ a full-time housekeeper. They don't have time to cook much, so they usually order in. They're too busy to take long vacations. . . .
As it happens, all those things - cooking, cleaning, home care, three-week vacations and so forth - are the kind of activity that keep Low-G.D.P. Man and his wife busy. High-G.D.P. Man likes his washer and dryer; Low-G.D.P. Man doesn't mind hanging his laundry on the clothesline. High-G.D.P. Man buys bags of prewashed salad at the grocery store; Low-G.D.P. Man grows vegetables in his garden. When High-G.D.P. Man wants a book, he buys it; Low-G.D.P. Man checks it out of the library. When High-G.D.P. Man wants to get in shape, he joins a gym; Low-G.D.P. Man digs out an old pair of Nikes and runs through the neighborhood. On his morning commute, High-G.D.P. Man drives past Low-G.D.P. Man, who is walking to work in wrinkled khakis.
By economic measures, there's no doubt High-G.D.P. Man is superior to Low-G.D.P. Man. His salary is higher, his expenditures are greater, his economic activity is more robust. You can even say that by modern standards High-G.D.P. Man is a bigger boon to his country. What we can't really say for sure is whether his life is any better. In fact, there seem to be subtle indications that various "goods" that High-G.D.P. Man consumes should, as some economists put it, be characterized as "bads." His alarm system at home probably isn't such a good indicator of his personal security; given all the medical tests, his health care expenditures seem to be excessive. Moreover, the pollution from the traffic jams near his home, which signals that business is good at the local gas stations and auto shops, is very likely contributing to social and environmental ills.
The Better Life Initiative, the Canadian Index of Wellbeing, the State of the USA - these are some of the efforts to prevent High-G.D.P. Man from being the only figure who sets national agendas. Another is the happiness index introduced by the British prime minister, David Cameron, late last year. On that occasion, he said: "We'll continue to measure gross domestic product. But it is high time we admitted that, taken on its own, G.D.P. is an incomplete way of measuring a country's progress."
Gertner's article makes it clear that measurement - both what to measure and how - is an enormously complex task. Still, the fact that the O.E.C.D. index includes the category "life satisfaction" makes you wonder if maybe we shouldn't just use that as a starting point. Isn't a highly satisfied life the goal? In that case, the lesson seems to be, be Dutch or Danish, and if you're Estonian, try to find some gratification in the low levels of particulate matter in the air.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CRIME RATES (72%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (66%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (64%) Gertner, Jon; Gross Domestic Product; United States Economy; Work-Life Balance; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (93%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

PERSON: Gertner, Jon

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (79%); ICELAND (74%); LUXEMBOURG (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



531 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: California Revises Its Greenhouse Gas Analysis

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: Responding to a judge's order, state regulators in California undertook a new analysis of how different strategies would succeed in reducing emissions. The bottom line: they think cap-and-trade would work best.

 BODY:
Nothing focuses the mind like being told by a thesis adviser (or a judge) that your analysis is inadequate and that your degree (or your carefully constructed policy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions) will be on hold until you provide a better one.
The regulatory staff at California's Air Resources Board has been at work on a revision for months, since a Superior Court judge in San Francisco revealed his desire for a better analysis and then ordered the regulators to provide one. The working product was unveiled on Monday, starting the clock for a 45-day public-comment period.
Included in the analysis was the chart above, which summarizes how different approaches to controlling emissions are expected to score on 20 different yardsticks. By this reckoning, a cap-and-trade strategy, the market-based emissions trading system that the air resources board has already embraced, still scores highest. A hybrid approach combining elements of both a cap-and-trade system and a carbon fee is a close second. 
What Judge Ernest H. Goldsmith called for was a fuller discussion of the comparative merits of a cap-and-trade system, which the board had embraced, and a direct tax or fee on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases, an approach favored by several leading economists.
The 116-page document looked at the following four alternatives for enforcing California's 2006 law to control greenhouse gases, widely known as AB32: relying only on existing laws and policies (the so-called "no action" alternative), directly regulating polluting industries, imposing a carbon fee or tax, and using the cap-and-trade approach. It also provided a discussion of British Columbia's plan, a blend of these policies.
The staff's final judgment was that a market-based approach easily outdistanced a direct emissions tax or fee. Even the unpopular option of direct regulation of refineries or power plants or other major emitters penciled out better than the carbon tax in the new analysis of the regulatory board.
The board's analysts wrote that carbon fees or taxes were "a potentially effective strategy for reducing greenhouse-gas initiatives." Still, "administrative challenges and legal constraints exist for fees and taxes in California that could constrain the Air Resources Board's ability to implement such a proposal," they said.
The analysts were referring to California's requirement that any tax increase either win the support of voters in a statewide referendum or pass the legislature by a two-thirds majority.
Another objection to carbon taxes offered by the analysts was that polluting businesses would pull up stakes in California and resume business elsewhere, so there would be no net emissions reductions -- something known in policy-wonk circles as "leakage."

        
California Judge Calls Time Out for Climate Change Law
        
Cap and Trade, the California Way
        
Cap and Trade Is Dead. Long Live Cap and Trade.
        
A Carbon Price as a Nuclear Incentive
        
The Climate Bills, Side by Side

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (95%); GREENHOUSE GASES (95%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); JUDGES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES REGULATION (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); REFERENDUMS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); POLITICS (62%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (61%) ab32; California Air Resources Board; cap and trade; environmental justice; greenhouse gases; Air Pollution; Carbon Dioxide; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; California; Business; carbon trading; climate change; Emissions Reduction; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: California Air Resources Board

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



532 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Regulator: Wall Street Not Too Big to Fail

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Michael H. Krimminger, a top Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation official, will tell Congress on Tuesday that "market players should understand that bailouts are no longer an option."

 BODY:
3:22 p.m. | Updated Bailouts are no longer an option for Wall Street, a top Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation official told Congress on Tuesday.
Michael H. Krimminger, the F.D.I.C.'s general counsel, said in testimony before a House Financial Services Committee panel that regulators now have "the tools to end too big to fail." 
His position is a sharp turnaround from 2008, when the nation's economy teetered on the brink of collapse. At the time, Washington enacted a $700 billion bailout for banks, the automotive industry and the giant insurer American International Group. Policymakers argued that they had no choice but to rescue the firms because they were so large and interconnected that their collapse would have caused the nation's economic downfall.
"Such a presumption reduced market discipline and encouraged excessive risk-taking by firms," Michael S. Barr, a former assistant Treasury Department secretary who is now a law professor at the University of Michigan, told the committee. 
In the aftermath of the financial crisis, Mr. Barr was a leading architect of the Dodd-Frank Act, which aimed to rein in derivatives trading, mortgage securities and other risky Wall Street businesses. 
The law, according to Mr. Krimminger, ended the era of bailouts, too. 
"There is no statutory authority in the Dodd-Frank Act for us to bail out a failed financial institution." he told lawmakers. 
Instead, Dodd-Frank created the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of regulators who will keep an eye on the nation's biggest and riskiest companies. The council will designate specific financial firms - including mutual funds, insurance companies and hedge funds - that pose a systemic risk to the financial system. These firms, and banks like Goldman Sachs that have more than $50 billion in assets, will face tougher federal oversight and higher capital requirements.
The so-called systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs, must also create a "living will" that spells out how the firms could be unwound through bankruptcy if they fall on hard times. And if the F.D.I.C. or Federal Reserve concludes that a firm's plan is insufficient, the regulators may force the company to shed some of its riskier assets or operations, according to Mr. Krimminger. 
The plan, regulators say, will prevent a repeat of the chaotic Lehman Brothers bankruptcy.
"Resolution plans are essential to ending too big to fail," Mr. Krimminger said. "These plans will provide the analysis, information and advanced planning that was lacking in 2008."
But some Republicans and financial industry executives say that labeling a company as "systemically important" only reinforces the too-big-to-fail problem. Others note that when complicated and huge institutions file for bankruptcy, as in the case of Lehman, markets can panic. 
Dodd-Frank does offer an alternative: "orderly liquidation authority." Under the law, the F.D.I.C. has receivership power over firms that are on the brink collapse, similar to the agency's role when a local bank fails. 
Critics contend that the process would give the government the arbitrary authority to decide when a firm lives and dies. Some also say it will force a fire sale of a failing firm's assets.
But Mr. Krimminger reassured lawmakers that the failed firm's shareholders and creditors would bear the brunt of the losses, protecting taxpayers from another massive bailout. The government would remove the firm's executives, and claw back some of their compensation. 
"This would be critical to avoid a future financial meltdown," he said.

        
Some Powers for Dealing With Failed Financial Firms
        
In F.D.I.C.'s Proposal, Incentive for Excessive Risk Remains

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (93%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); LIVING WILLS (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); MUTUAL FUNDS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (51%) F.D.I.C.; Michael H. Krimminger; Michael S. Barr; Too Big to Fail; Wall Street Bailout; Barr, Michael S; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (94%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (73%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%) Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (94%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: Barr, Michael S

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



533 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: For Rubio, a Senate First

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Unlike less tradition-sensitive colleagues, Marco Rubio, a new Republican senator from Florida, waited more than five months to give his first speech on the floor.

 BODY:
As far as Senate rituals go, Marco Rubio is old school, honoring the longtime Senate tradition of biding one's time before joining the more seasoned politicians in speaking out on the floor; learning the rules before getting in the game.
Mr. Rubio, a Florida Republican, emerged to give his maiden speech on the Senate floor on Tuesday, more than five months after being sworn into office, heralding traditional American values and mapping the direction for his still undefined political legacy. (By contrast, another new Republican senator, Rand Paul, gave his first speech less than a month into his term).
"Through challenges and triumphs, the 20th century was the American century," Mr. Rubio said. "But now we find ourselves in a new century, and there is this growing sense that for America, things will never be the same. That maybe this century will belong to someone else."
The solution, he said in a passage that blended longtime Republican ideology with freshman zeal, is smaller government and stronger employment.
"We Americans are as great as we have ever been, but our government is broken and it is keeping us from doing what we have done better than any people in the history of the world - create jobs and prosperity," he said. 
Mr. Rubio dedicated his first speech to the struggling economy - how it fell, who is to blame and what his colleagues can do to fix it.
"We have made no progress on the issues of our time because, frankly, we have too many people in both parties who have decided that the next election is more important than the next generation, and our lack of progress on these issues has led to something even more troubling -- a growing fear that maybe these problems are too big for us to solve, too big for even America. Our story, the story of the American people, is not the story of a people who always got it right. It is the story of a people who in the end got it right."
Mr. Rubio is also a bit old school in other ways, at least compared with politicians who feel driven by the 24-hour news cycle to make as much noise as possible.
On Tuesday, he sent out his first Twitter post since May 26 - eons in the Twitterverse - inviting his Twitter followers and those who elected him eight months ago to watch him deliver his maiden speech.

        
Senate Tea Party Caucus Holds First Meeting
        
Rubio Steps Into Spotlight on Debt Fight
        
Senate Approves Stopgap Budget
        
Rand Paul Makes First Speech on Senate Floor
        
'Refudiate' Was a Typo Political Revisionism 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); JOB CREATION (67%); APPROVALS (60%) marco rubio; rand paul; Senate; Rubio, Marco; Congress

PERSON: MARCO RUBIO (94%); RAND PAUL (78%) Rubio, Marco

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



534 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Can We Afford the Military Budget?

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: While many nations have cut military spending since the end of the Cold War, the United States has scarcely done so -- and now needs to rethink its military priorities, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul.
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates gave a speech in Brussels on Friday in which he berated our allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for not carrying their weight in terms of providing resources for the common defense. "For all but a handful of allies, defense budgets -- in absolute terms, as a share of economic output -- have been chronically starved for adequate funding for a long time, with the shortfalls compounding on themselves each year," Mr. Gates said. An examination of the latest NATO data shows that in 2010, the United States spent 5.4 percent of its gross domestic product on its military -- twice as much as spent by Britain and three to four times as much as most of our NATO allies, as shown in the following table.
A crucial reason for this gap is that the United States spends almost as much today as it did during the Cold War. Every other NATO country spends substantially less.
Secretary Gates also made another point about military spending by our allies: they spend much more on personnel and less on equipment than the United States. "The result is that investment accounts for future modernization and other capabilities not directly related to Afghanistan are being squeezed out -- as we are seeing today over Libya," he cautioned. 
According to NATO, the United States spends 46.7 percent of its military budget on personnel. All but five other NATO countries spend more -- often considerably more. The average for all NATO countries other than the United States is 56.7 percent of their military budgets spent on personnel, with a number of countries spending two-thirds to three-quarters.
Consequently, there is little money left over for equipment. The United States spends 24.2 percent of its military budget on equipment and only five NATO countries spend more. The average for all NATO countries other than the United States is 16.7 percent of military spending going to equipment, with a number of countries spending less than 10 percent.
But what about our adversaries? Don't we need to maintain a high level of military spending to counter the capabilities of countries like Russia and China?
For those data, we need to look to a different source. According to the latest yearbook from the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, the standard nonclassified source, Russia spent 4.3 percent of its G.D.P. on military outlays in 2009, down from 15.8 percent in 1988; China spent just 2.2 percent of its G.D.P. on the military budget, about the same as it has been since 1989.
The institute notes that the United States accounted for virtually all of the increase in world military spending in 2010. 
And because the United States has the world's largest economy, its share of world military spending is outsized, accounting for 43 percent of all the military spending on Earth -- six times as much as China, which has the world's second largest military budget and accounts for 7.3 percent of world military spending. Russia accounts for just 3.6 percent.
With polls showing declining support for the war in Afghanistan and increasing talk in Congress, even among Republicans, about cutting the military budget, it appears certain that the Defense Department is going to be downsized and our foreign military commitments scaled back in coming years. 
This is going to require serious rethinking of what we perceive to be our strategic threats and whether the United States can continue to afford to be the world's peacekeeper.

        
The Virtues of Investing in Transportation
        
Are Taxes in the U.S. High or Low?
        
Is the Fair Tax Herman Cain's Ace in the Hole?
        
A Time for Radical Centrists
        
Deficit Hawks, Tax Chickens

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); BUDGETS (92%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%) Afghanistan War (2001- ) (Des);; Bruce Bartlett; budget deficit; Daily Economist; Libya; military spending; NATO; politics; Defense and Military Forces; Federal Budget (US); United States Defense and Military Forces; North Atlantic Treaty Organization

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%); RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); BELGIUM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



535 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: The Two Republican Debates

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: One for the chance to emerge as a spoiler, the other for the nomination itself.

 BODY:
If you were being kind to the Republican contenders on the debate stage last night, you would say that a debate featuring 60 second answers and 30 second responses, with no room to elaborate and little or no interaction between the candidates, is hardly a format in which any politician is likely to particularly shine. Throw in CNN's "this or that" gimmick, which asked the candidates to choose between Conan and Leno, American Idol and Dancing With the Stars, and other oh-so-creative binaries, and the night was a good reminder why most sane Americans ignore the early primary debates entirely.
If you were being unkind ... well, let's just say that nobody on the stage last night had Barack Obama quaking in his boots. (Right now, the only 2012 challenge that our president really fears comes from the unemployment rate.) Essentially, there were two debates going on: One between Michelle Bachmann, Herman Cain, Rick Santorum and Ron Paul for the chance to emerge as the dark horse/spoiler of this cycle, and the other between Tim Pawlenty and Mitt Romney for the actual nomination itself. (Poor Newt Gingrich currently seems to be running in a primary all his own, in which the winner gets tenure at an online conservative university.) The candidates in the first debate had nothing to lose by getting specific on controversial issues, so their answers were generally more detailed, substantive and provocative - whether it was Rick Santorum defending Paul Ryan's Medicare plan, Michelle Bachmann attacking the Libyan intervention, or Ron Paul castigating the other candidates for saying they'd defer to the generals on Afghanistan. But then again they also tended to be more extreme, implausible and/or crankish. (I liked Paul's promise of 10 or 15 percent growth - why not? - if we just unwound the Federal Reserve.) Meanwhile, Romney and Pawlenty were more likely to stick to platitudes (private sector good, big government bad, etc.), which meant that both avoided saying anything that might come back to hurt them later, while leaving no lasting impression on any specific issue.
They also avoided attacking one another - and given that Romney leads in the polls and Pawlenty is still an unknown quantity to most voters, the absence of any real friction between them probably made the debate a win for the former governor of Massachusetts. Pawlenty seemed to duck a chance to go after Romney's health care plan directly (earning him the instant disdain of a desperate-for-controversy press corps), preferring to draw contrasts implicitly by talking up his blue-collar background at every opportunity. It isn't a crazy idea: It was arguably Mike Huckabee's populist charm, more than any of his substantive attacks, that upended the stuffed-shirted Romney in the early going in 2008. But Huckabee was a natural at playing the populist card, whereas with Pawlenty it already feels belabored. He'll need to absolutely tear Romney down on health care, I suspect, to have any chance of beating him, and on this night that didn't happen.
So Romney was the winner in the important debate, and Michelle Bachmann, by general acclamation, was the winner of the interesting one. The other winners? War-weary conservatives, who heard a field of candidates taking a much more restrained tone on foreign policy than the Bush-era Republican Party did. The losers? Pawlenty, Herman Cain, and anyone who would like America's opposition party to advance an domestic policy agenda that consists of more than just capital gains tax cuts and corporate tax cuts, rinse and repeat. But that, alas, was to be expected.

        
The Nomination Nobody Wants
        
Tim Pawlenty's Supply-Side Time Warp
        
Exit Daniels
        
Sarah Palin: Still Not the Front-Runner
        
The Lessons of Gingrich v. Ryan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MEDICARE (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (53%) 2012; conservatism; Domestic Policy; Mitt Romney; Republicans; the horse race; Tim Pawlenty

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); RON PAUL (89%); TIM PAWLENTY (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



536 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Political Volleys Over Nuclear Waste

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: At a subcommittee hearing, House members assert that the chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission blocked a waste depository at Yucca Mountain for political reasons. Others counter that the House's long-ago choice of Yucca was political to begin with.

 BODY:
 House Republicans and some Democrats argued at a hearing on Tuesday that the chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission had introduced politics into the government's consideration of a nuclear waste dump at Yucca Mountain. Others said this was hardly possible because the original choice of the site, in the Nevada desert, was nothing but politics to begin with.
 The Environment and Economy Subcommittee of the House Energy Committee spent an hour and a half hearing from Hubert Bell, the inspector general of the regulatory commission, who recently issued a report criticizing of the way the N.R.C.'s chairman, Gregory B. Jaczko, handled decisions on Yucca. The repository was supposed to be built by the Energy Department, but the decision on whether to issue a license for it was left by Congress to the commission. 
When President Obama said he was killing the idea and directed the Energy Department not to pursue the license, Mr. Jaczko ordered his staff to stop work on evaluating the Energy Department's application. 
 Mr. Bell's report said that Mr. Jaczko had been highly selective about what he told the other four members of the commission he was doing, and that two of them did not understand that his actions were terminating the commission staff's evaluation of the project.
Representative Fred Upton, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the Energy Committee, declared, "The N.R.C. chairman devised a complex, calculated strategy to kill the license application without consideration by the commission.
"The N.R.C. won't even give a straight answer about whether the application is alive," he added.
In fact, the project's legal status is fairly convoluted. The Energy Department said last year that it wanted to withdraw the application, but a panel of three administrative law judges overseeing the case decided that this was not proper. The decision was appealed to the five-member commission. One member said he could not vote on the issue because he had done work on the question before becoming a commissioner. The others appear to be deadlocked. Mr. Jaczko has prevented the matter from coming to a vote.Various outsiders have tried to sue in federal court to revive the application, but the courts are unlikely to hear the case before the N.R.C. votes on it. 
 John Shimkus, the chairman of the subcommittee, said this was a neglect of duty by Mr. Jaczko. As Mr. Bell and two of his assistants were the only witnesses at the hearing, the commissioners did not respond to the charge. But for months, Mr. Jaczko has said in any case that he cannot discuss internal deliberations of the commission. 
 Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who was chairman of the House committee when his party held the majority, said that once the Energy Department said it was giving up on the application, there was little point in the N.R.C.'s evaluating it, and that besides, Congress had voted $10 million to close down the evaluation of Yucca, a volcanic ridge about 100 miles north of Las Vegas. 
The underlying suggestion of the Republicans' questioning, though, was that Yucca Mountain should be allowed to open and that Mr. Jaczko was preventing it. The utilities that make nuclear waste signed contracts with the Energy Department in the 1980s requiring them to pay a fee for each kilowatt-hour their reactors generated and for the government to start accepting the waste in 1998; now the government anticipates paying the utilities billions of dollars in damages because it has no place to put the waste, it was noted. 
"Government cannot meet its obligations, primarily because of one person at the N.R.C. whose personal objective is to close Yucca Mountain, '' said Representative Ed Whitfield, Republican of Kentucky.''
But the suitability of Yucca Mountain as a repository for nuclear waste for the next million years is still at issue and will not be resolved by an N.R.C. licensing. 
Representative Edward J. Markey, a veteran Massachusetts Democrat, reminded others at the hearing that the choice of Yucca was political in the first place. When the Nuclear Waste Policy Act was passed in 1982, the Energy Department was looking at several candidate sites, and politics was the main reason that all but Yucca fell by the wayside, he said. 
"The speaker of the House then came from Texas,'' he said, referring to Jim Wright. "He said, 'I don't want it in Texas.' The second site was in Washington State. The majority leader came from Washington State,'' he said, referring to Tom Foley. "He said, 'I don't want it in Washington State.' " 
"The third site was the salt domes in Louisiana,'' Mr. Markey said. "The chairman of the Committee on Energy came from Louisiana.'' That was Bennett Johnston. " He said, 'I don't want it in Louisiana,' and it was out.''
Another potential site was North Carolina, but the ranking Republican member of the Energy Committee, James Broyhill, represented that state, he said. Another possiblity was granite formations in New Hampshire, but the governor at the time, John Sununu, a backer of President George H.W. Bush, opposed it, Mr. Markey recalled. 
The shoe is now on the other foot; Nevada's senior senator, Harry Reid, is the Senate majority leader and is bitterly opposed to Yucca. 
Mr. Jaczko was formerly on the senator's staff; Mr. Reid was instrumental in having him appointed chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

        
Republicans Open Inquiry on Yucca Mountain Shutdown
        
Senators Press U.S. Officials on Storage of Spent Nuclear Fuel
        
House Panel Questions Nuclear Regulatory and Energy Chiefs 
        
Waxman Angrily Assails G.O.P. 'Science Deniers'
        
Inhofe and Upton: Just Say No to the E.P.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (96%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); ENERGY REGULATION (91%); NUCLEAR WASTE (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); POLITICS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); WITNESSES (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); LICENSES & PERMITS (74%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); JUDGES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%) Department of Energy; Ed Whitfield; Edward J. Markey; Fred Upton; Gregory B. Jaczko; Harry Reid; Henry A. Waxman; Hubert Bell; John Shimkus; Nevada; nuclear waste; sununu; Tuccca Mountain; Nuclear Energy; Nuclear Wastes; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Energy Department; House of Representatives; Nuclear Regulatory Commission; Republican Party; Yucca Mountain (Nev); Business; Energy Business; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (94%) Democratic Party; Energy Department; House of Representatives; Nuclear Regulatory Commission; Republican Party

PERSON: ED WHITFIELD (73%); EDWARD J MARKEY (73%); HENRY WAXMAN (59%); HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN SHIMKUS (58%); FRED UPTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Nevada; Yucca Mountain (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



537 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Making Introductions

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
Today's Times Seven candidates for the Republican presidential nomination met Monday night in their highest-profile opportunity yet to set themselves apart even as they united to attack President Obama. Discussing issues like economic revival, job creation, abortion and Afghanistan, they tried to demonstrate that they are both electable and ideologically acceptable to primary voters, The Times's Jeff Zeleny and Jim Rutenberg report.
 Representative Nancy Pelosi went from being one of the most powerful figures in Washington to a being largely relegated to the sidelines as minority leader. Now she is suddenly in the spotlight again, due to a very public push for Representative Anthony Weiner to surrender his House seat after sending lewd personal images over the Internet. The Times's Carl Hulse and Jennifer Steinhauer report on the toughest test of Ms. Pelosi's authority that she has faced since losing the speakership in last year's elections. The Supreme Court on Monday unanimously rejected a First Amendment challenge to a Nevada law that barred officials there from voting on matters in which they had a conflict of interest. The Times's Adam Liptak, noting that such legislative recusal laws are common, writes that a decision striking them down or even subjecting them to strict First Amendment scrutiny would have reshaped politics across the nation.
 Confronting the challenge of running for re-election while the unemployment rate remains stubbornly high, President Obama unveiled a new program on Monday that seeks to train 10,000 American engineering students a year in a targeted program to fill high-tech jobs. The Times's Helene Cooper reports that the program would seek to match private companies with colleges and universities in a bid to encourage students to focus on science, technology, engineering and math degrees.
Happenings around Washington Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will announce the launch of Community Blueprint - a new online resource tool for military personnel and their families. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Director will acknowledge Flag Day by administering the Oath of Allegiance to 20 new citizens, including four members of the U.S. Armed Forces.

        
The Early Word: New Edition
        
The Weekend Word: Relevance
        
The Early Word: Derailed
        
The Early Word: Competition
        
The Early Word: Replacement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%); CITIZENSHIP (65%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (61%); IMMIGRATION (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



538 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: No Brawl for Republican Candidates Yet

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican presidential rivals declined repeated opportunities to attack one another at Monday night's debate.

 BODY:
The opportunities were there.
The moderators of Monday night's debate in New Hampshire provided plenty of openings for what could have been a series of sharp-edged clashes between the seven announced Republican hopefuls for the presidency.
Instead, the group collectively held hands, declared themselves a talented field of candidates and avoided the intraparty political rhetoric that often turns such high-stakes political gatherings into a brawl.
"Any one of the people on this stage would be a better president than President Obama," Mitt Romney, the front-runner for the Republican nomination, declared toward the end of the debate.
It was Mr. Romney who entered the debate with the biggest target on his back. As the leader in most public-opinion surveys and the candidate with the largest campaign war chest, Mr. Romney and his aides were bracing for his rivals to take direct aim at his perceived weaknesses in front of a national television audience.
The most likely source of criticism was expected to be Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, who signaled on Sunday that he would seek to sarcastically highlight the similarities between Mr. Obama's health care plan and one Mr. Romney signed into law in Massachusetts as governor.
But when given the chance - repeatedly - Mr. Pawlenty refused to take the bait against his rival standing just feet away. 
In fact, Mr. Pawlenty seemed to back away from his comments about "Obamneycare," a term that he had introduced just the day before, linking Mr. Romney's health care plan in Massachusetts with the president's national plan. On Monday night, Mr. Pawlenty suggested that the intended target of his critique was Mr. Obama, not Mr. Romney.
"Using the term 'Obamneycare' was a reflection of the president's comments that he designed Obamacare on the Massachusetts health care plan," Mr. Pawlenty told CNN's John King.
When it came to the issue of abortion, Mr. King gave the candidates several opportunities to criticize Mr. Romney's change of heart. He supported abortion rights as governor but has changed his mind and now opposes them.
"I believe people understand that I am firmly pro-life," Mr. Romney said. "I will support justices who believe in following the Constitution and not legislating from the bench. And I believe in the sanctity of life from the very beginning until the very end."
Mr. King asked whether any of Mr. Romney's rivals thought that should be an issue in the campaign. "Or is it case closed?" Mr. King asked. 
"Case closed," said Herman Cain, the chief executive of Godfather's Pizza. 
With no other commentary, Mr. King declared "Case closed it is," and moved on.
With Mr. Pawlenty backing away, and none of the other candidates taking a shot at Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts emerged from his first debate of the 2012 campaign season largely unscathed. Future debates may not be so friendly, but so far, Mr. Romney has taken little direct heat from his rivals - and is returning the kindness.
"Look, Tim has the right instincts, which is he recognizes that what this president has done has slowed the economy," Mr. Romney said during the debate, referring to the economic plan that Mr. Pawlenty introduced last week. Mr. Romney added add later, "the ideas Tim described, those are - those are in the right wheelhouse."
There was little hesitation to fiercely criticize Mr. Obama, especially on his handling of the economy. But the reluctance to attack each other may reflect the late start and unsettled nature of a Republican primary that will probably gain new entrants in the coming weeks.
The aversion to confrontation may also have been a recognition by the candidates that it remains too early to go into attack mode. For several of those on the stage, Monday was their first real introduction to a national audience - not the best time to be seen going negative.
And it suggests that several of the other candidates on the stage had other goals in mind as they presented themselves to the American public.
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, for example, appeared eager to tone down the fiery Tea Party rhetoric that has made her a favorite of that movement. She did not change her positions, but sought to offer an image that might be more acceptable to the Republican primary electorate. 
In fact, Ms. Bachmann used the first question of the night as an opportunity to announce that she had filed the paperwork to run for president, releasing an announcement video during the debate. 
Given the opportunity to describe the importance of the Tea Party, or to criticize her opponents for failing to live up to the movement's ideals, Ms. Bachmann instead talked about the breadth of its appeal.
"The Tea Party is really made up of disaffected Democrats, independents, people who have never been political a day in their life, people who are libertarians, Republicans," she said. "It's a wide swath of America coming together. I think that's why the left fears it so much."
The two candidates who have histories of sharp edges in their rhetoric - Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Rick Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania - seemed more muted than usual.
Mr. Santorum offered his usual critique of Mr. Obama, especially on foreign policy. He charged that because of the president, "Our enemies no longer respect us. Our friends no longer trust us." And he blamed "America's fecklessness in dealing with the threats they confront."
But the sharp-tongued Mr. Santorum appeared to want to present himself as a serious alternative to Mr. Romney or Mr. Pawlenty, focusing on his own experience rather than appearing to be a pit bull who only attacks his rivals.
Mr. Gingrich is famous for zingers aimed at his own party. But his recent quip that House Republican budget plans were "radical, right-wing social engineering" may have clipped his wings for the debate.
Appearing just days after his campaign practically unraveled, Mr. Gingrich offered no such zingers aimed at his rivals.
Long-shot candidates often decide that their only chance at getting noticed is to attack the more well-known candidates. But Mr. Cain and Representative Ron Paul of Texas also refrained from sniping.
"What I've learned is that all of these candidates up here share one thing in common, and that is it's not about us, it's about the children and the grandchildren," Mr. Cain said at the end of the debate. "We're not that far apart on all of the big issues."
Mr. King closed the debate with a thanks to the candidates and the viewers, and this final thought: "We have a feisty campaign to come."
Maybe. But not quite yet.

        
Cheer Up, Republicans, the 2012 Field Isn't That Bad
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
Republican Debate Prep: What to Watch For in New Hampshire
        
Foreign Policy Looms Large as 2012 Election Issue
        
Roemer to Run as Irritant to Republicans in 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); ABORTION (66%) 2012; 2012 presidential campaign; barack obama; civil discourse; CNN; CONSERVATIVES; debate; Michele Bachmann; mitt romney; New Hampshire; newt gingrich; Republicans; tim pawlenty; Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Paul, Ron; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Debates (Political); Elections; Presidential Election of 2012; Tea Party Movement; Republican Party; Congress; The 44th President; The White House

COMPANY: GODFATHER'S PIZZA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); TIM PAWLENTY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (88%); MICHELE BACHMANN (88%); HERMAN CAIN (77%) Bachmann, Michele M; Cain, Herman; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Paul, Ron; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



539 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Romney Smiles, For Now

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney walked away emboldened from his first debate, but conceded that criticism would likely intensify.

 BODY:
DERRY, N.H. - Mitt Romney walked away emboldened - and untouched - from his first Republican presidential debate, but he said Tuesday that his rivals were not likely to treat him so gently as the campaign intensifies, and he conceded that the criticism over his health care plan was not likely to go away.
"I don't think there are any questions that will be put to rest until somebody's won," said Mr. Romney, whose smile illustrated his delight over not becoming the target of his rivals. He added, "We were respectful to one another. We aimed our rhetoric toward the president - where it was deserved."
The day after the first major candidate debate of the 2012 campaign, Mr. Romney basked in a burst of compliments and congratulations as he visited two diners, a hardware shop and a feed store. A series of rolling photo opportunities - unusual for a candidate who has purposefully kept a low-profile presence in the early stages of the race - provided an opportunity for Mr. Romney to keep driving home his economic message.
"Things aren't better now than they were four or five years ago," Mr. Romney said. "You can't blame George Bush anymore. President Obama is going to have to take responsibility for the fact that we're still in a very troubled economy."
Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, mentioned the president's name again and again on Tuesday morning as he met with business owners, restaurant guests and motorists who jumped out of their cars to shake Mr. Romney's hand.
"It's a little different than five years ago when no one knew who I was," Mr. Romney told reporters as he walked through downtown Derry.
Ron McPhail, 43, pulled over his dump truck and rushed to meet Mr. Romney. He said he supported Mr. Romney because of his experience as a "solid business man, which is just what the country needs."
Asked how he thought Mr. Romney performed in the debate on Monday evening at St. Anselm College, which was televised for two hours during prime time on CNN, Mr. McPhail smiled and conceded that he was not watching. He was tuned to Game 6 of the Boston Bruins' quest to win the Stanley Cup.
No offense taken, Mr. Romney assured him.
"It was a good night for both of us," said Mr. Romney, who knows from experience that a good debate performance can have a limited shelf life in a fast-moving campaign. But for Tuesday, at least, he was happy to bask in the glow of universally strong reviews from pundits and voters alike.
As he forcefully assailed Mr. Obama for lacking business experience, a reporter asked Mr. Romney how he could measure up to the president in other areas, considering Mr. Obama will have four years under his belt by the time the general election rolls around.
"One of the difficulties - and realities - is that very few people are offered the opportunity to run for president who have been president of a country before," he said. "So by definition, you're taking a bit of a leap of faith by saying this person has never run a country before and now we're going to elect him to be the president of the United States. But what you do have is all their other experiences to look at."

        
Foreign Policy Looms Large as 2012 Election Issue
        
2008: G.O.P. Debate in N.H.
        
2008: Eyes on Early States and the South 
        
No Brawl for Republican Candidates Yet
        
Republican Debate Prep: What to Watch For in New Hampshire

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); HARDWARE STORES (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); ICE HOCKEY (64%) debates; mitt romney; New Hampshire; Presidential Election of 2012; Republicans; Romney, Mitt; Debates (Political); Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



540 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Huntsman Will Announce at Liberty Park

BYLINE: MICHAEL SHEAR and JIM RUTENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Jon M. Huntsman Jr. said his presidential campaign would begin near the Statue of Liberty, but would skip Iowa for now.

 BODY:
2:58 p.m. | Updated Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, will officially declare his intention to unseat his former boss from the White House next Tuesday in the shadow of the Statue of Liberty, where Ronald Reagan opened his fall campaign for the presidency in 1980.
Mr. Huntsman made the announcement of his announcement official on Tuesday afternoon at the Thomson Reuters building in Times Square, where he was discussing China with Henry Kissinger and Sir Harold Evans, the newly named editor at large for Reuters.
"I intend to announce that I will be a candidate for the presidency a week from today," Mr. Huntsman told an audience of elite news media and political figures, among them Leslie Stahl of CBS's "60 Minutes," the publisher Mort Zuckerman and former Gov. William Weld of Massachusetts.
Mr. Huntsman said his family was "shocked and surprised" by his decision before returning to the discussion on China with Mr. Kissinger who is promoting his new book, "On China."
Mr. Huntsman, who served two years as President Obama's ambassador to China, is set to make his campaign official at Liberty State Park in New Jersey.
Mr. Huntsman will then kick off a campaign swing through New Hampshire, South Carolina, Florida, Utah and Nevada -- noticeably skipping Iowa, where caucus voting begins next year.
Choosing New Jersey for the announcement, and using the Statue of Liberty as a backdrop, is intended to conjure up the memory of Mr. Reagan's legacy as Mr. Huntsman seeks the nomination.
Mr. Huntsman joins a race well under way, as was made clear by Monday night's debate in New Hampshire. But his advisers argue that there remains plenty of time for him to establish himself as a serious contender.
Mr. Huntsman has already said he will not compete in Iowa, saying his stand opposing ethanol subsidies would make victory there difficult. The decision could clear the way for him to focus more intensely on knocking off Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, in New Hampshire.
But it could also take Mr. Huntsman out of the political narrative toward the end of 2011 as the other candidates compete in the caucuses.
Pressed by Mr. Evans about how his experience in China would help his candidacy, Mr. Huntsman said the United States would be in a better position to deal with China when it strengthened its own economy. He said the United States had "a very weak economic core" and was "less able to project the goodness and the power and the might of the United States."
Because of that, he said, the nation was diminished "at the negotiating table, and everybody knows that."
In a brief discussion with reporters after the event, Mr. Huntsman said his final decision came after discussions with his family and a recent trip to New Hampshire, where he proved to himself that he could handle "that retail side."
Acknowledging his status as a relatively unknown candidate, he said that for now "we're a margin-of-error candidate" and "a statistical anomaly." But he said he was comfortable as such, even if the pace was already a bit intense. "I'm tired," he said. "I can tell you that much."
Michael Shear reported from Washington, and Jim Rutenberg from New York.

        
G.O.P. Candidates Line Up to Compliment Huckabee
        
Romney Smiles, for Now
        
Are Motorcycles the New Republican Litmus Test?
        
Romney's Primary Task: Pitching Pragmatism
        
Video: The Week in Politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); STATE PARKS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); ALCOHOLS (50%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (50%) Jon M. Huntsman Jr.; Presidential Election of 2012; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Thomson Reuters Corporation; Liberty State Park (NJ); Thomson Reuters Corporation|TRI|NYSE; Elections

ORGANIZATION: Thomson Reuters Corporation

TICKER: Thomson Reuters Corporation; TRI; NYSE

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Liberty State Park (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



541 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Warm Welcome for Obama in Puerto Rico

BYLINE: HELENE C. COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: Political implications, not groundbreaking policies, highlight President Obama's visit to Puerto Rico.

 BODY:
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico - When even the press plane is greeted by festive dancers and Bacardi miniatures, chances are the president himself is in for a big welcome.
By the time Air Force One landed just before noon in the first "official" visit of a sitting American president since John F. Kennedy (more on that distinction later), the crowd gathered in a hot hangar at Luis Munoz Marin International Airport had swelled to more than 1,000.
President Obama, undoubtedly warm in a dark suit in the 90-degree tropical humidity, began his four-hour trip here with a quick speech in which he rolled his R's, tried out a little Spanish (Puerto Ricans' willingness to serve in the United States armed forces is as American as "arroz con gandules," he said), professed his love and admiration for all things Puerto Rican and promised to support "a clear decision" by the people of Puerto Rico on statehood, whatever it may be. (Puerto Ricans tend to reject statehood when it comes on the ballot.)
It was not, by any measure, a groundbreaking speech, but then, Mr. Obama's visit here is as much about wooing Hispanic voters back in the swing state of Florida as it is about reassuring Puerto Ricans that the United States hasn't forgotten its island territory in the Caribbean.
"The aspirations and the struggles on this island mirror those across America," Mr. Obama assured the people in the hangar, which included Marc Antony, the Latino crooner and spouse of Jennifer Lopez.
The local government spruced up the island for the presidential visit, dispatching workers to paint Spanish colonial buildings in old San Juan and to clear the highway of potholes. Mr. Obama's host, Luis Fortuno, the governor of Puerto Rico, is a Republican, but he was all smiles and good cheer when he met Mr. Obama on Tuesday.
The president's schedule included the speech at the airport hangar, a visit to La Fortaleza, the longest-serving governor's mansion in the Western Hemisphere (the White House says), a tour of the Kennedy Suite, where President Kennedy stayed in 1961, and a concert by a youth orchestra.
Perhaps more important on Mr. Obama's itinerary, though, was the interviews he scheduled with El Nuevo Dia and Univision of Puerto Rico, and a fund-raising event Tuesday afternoon meant to plump Democratic National Committee coffers.
Mr. Obama's spokesman, Jay Carney, told reporters aboard Air Force One en route to San Juan that the president's message was that "he is focused on Puerto Rico and its economic development and helping Puerto Ricans decide for themselves their status."
About half of Puerto Ricans here now advocate statehood. The other half, more or less, prefer that the island remain a commonwealth because they are concerned about keeping its cultural identity intact. A few would like independence.
Puerto Ricans hold American citizenship and can be drafted, but the territory has no voting representative in Congress. And while Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico can vote in a presidential primary, they cannot vote in general presidential elections. Only Puerto Ricans in the United States can.
The President's Task Force on Puerto Rico's Status issued a report in March recommending that the island hold two more votes on the issue by the end of 2012.
Mr. Carney said the trip went beyond politics. "The president is making the first official visit since 1961, and he takes the issue of resolving the status as very important. Dealing with economic hardships on the island is very important," he said. He allowed: "He does have a campaign event."
About that first official visit business: Other sitting American presidents have certainly been to Puerto Rico. President Gerald R. Ford came in 1976, but it was for a Group of Seven economic summit, so that apparently doesn't count as official, since it wasn't for official Puerto Rico business. Ditto for President Lyndon B. Johnson - he came in 1968, but it was just to visit a military base on the island, so that's not being considered official either.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNORS (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); FUNDRAISING (67%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%) Obama, Barack; Politics and Government; Puerto Ricans; Puerto Rico; The 44th President

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); LUIS G FORTUNO (58%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (50%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) Puerto Rico

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



542 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Bachmann Used Debate to Widen Her Appeal

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Michele Bachmann toned down her rhetoric and offered herself as a competent, knowledgeable insider who will nonetheless fight against big government.

 BODY:
The key question for Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota before the Republican debate on Monday night was whether she could appeal to voters beyond the Tea Party wing that she helped to create, while avoiding the gaffes that have sometimes emerged from her strident, passionate persona.
By most accounts, she did just that. Ms. Bachmann toned her rhetoric down a bit and offered herself as a competent, knowledgeable insider who would nonetheless carry on the fight against big government with the zeal of a Tea Party activist.
"I'm a former federal tax litigation attorney, I'm a businesswoman," she said in the introductions, addressing herself to a national audience that generally has had just fleeting exposure to her career in Congress. "I've had five children," she continued, "and we are the proud foster parents of 23 great children."
Over the debate's two hours, Ms. Bachmann was clearly trying to catch the attention of voters who have been wary of her often-intense brand of politics: establishment Republicans; pragmatists who want someone electable; foreign policy conservatives; and middle American families who are struggling economically.
Her admirers said she showed an ability to speak out on behalf of their issues without coming across as a niche candidate.
"She answered the questions that people had: Could she hang with the leaders? Would she make a gaffe?" said Andrew Hemingway, president of the New Hampshire Republican Liberty Caucus, a Tea Party group that has not backed a candidate in the race so far.
"In her demeanor, in the way that she carried herself - she walked out of that debate where everybody said, 'She is a very serious candidate,' " Mr. Hemingway said Tuesday.
Ms. Bachmann still faces hurdles to winning the Republican nomination. As a first-time national candidate, she remains largely unknown to most voters, and she has stumbled in recent weeks as she ramped up her campaign.
She angered Republican activists in Iowa last month by skipping a scheduled in-person speech because of a vote in Congress, and then flubbing a video-over-Internet speech to the activists that was plagued with technical trouble. Earlier, she made headlines by saying that the opening shots of the Revolutionary War were fired in New Hampshire rather than in Massachusetts.
Ms. Bachmann appeared to contradict herself on Monday, when she first said that she was against federal interference in state decisions about gay marriage, and then said she supported amending the constitution to define marriage as between a man and a woman, which would overturn the state decisions.
A video clip announcing that she was formally joining the race as a candidate - released as she was making that intention known during the debate - was devoid of the flashy production values of similar videos by others in the field.
Still, Ms. Bachmann has advantages over some of her rivals. She is a prodigious fund-raiser who has tapped into the Tea Party movement for financial support and can transfer millions of dollars from her Congressional account into a presidential one. That money will be available immediately to finance ads and pay for a campaign operation.
And that operation is quickly taking on a more establishment hue.
Several weeks ago, Ms. Bachmann hired the Republican strategist Ed Rollins as a top adviser. He is a veteran of campaigns dating to Ronald Reagan's, and brings a national perspective to her team. She has also recently hired Ed Goeas as her pollster; he also has decades of experience with national Republican candidates.
Those moves suggest that Ms. Bachmann, who is often mocked by late-night comedians and liberal cable hosts as a nutty right-winger, wants to dispel that caricature as she pursues the nomination.
During the debate, she made that case indirectly as she answered a question about what the Republican party needs to win back the White House; in a different context, she might have been talking about her own campaign:We need the peace through strength Republicans, we need the fiscal conservatives, we need the social conservatives. We need everybody to come together, because we're going to win. Just make no mistake about it. I want to announce tonight, President Obama is a one-term president!On foreign policy, she emphasized her credentials, noting that she sits on the House Select Committee on Intelligence, saying, "We deal with the nation's vital classified secrets." Then she took a swipe at Mr. Obama over Libya, saying that "we to this day don't yet know who the rebel forces are that we're helping" and adding that "the president was absolutely wrong in his decision on Libya."
True to her Tea Party roots, Ms. Bachmann promised not to vote to raise the nation's debt ceiling and decried the federal bank-bailout votes that were pushed through by fellow Republicans. "Sometimes that's what you have to do," she told the debate audience. "You have to take principle over your party."
She also continued her intense criticism of Mr. Obama's health care plan, a staple of her appearances on television and on the stump.
"As president of the United States, I will not rest until I repeal 'Obamacare,' " she said. "It's a promise, take it to the bank, cash the check - I'll make sure that that happens."
Jenny Beth Martin, the co-founder of the Tea Party Patriots, a group in Atlanta that has not endorsed a candidate in the race, observed that Ms. Bachmann was often shown on television in "fight mode," criticizing Democrats or members of her own party, and often came off as shrill.
"This time, she was able to just stand up for herself and present herself," Ms. Martin said in an interview. "It was a more calm demeanor. It wasn't in a fight mode. It was in a 'this is who I am' mode. She seemed very comfortable and in command of the issues."

        
No Brawl for Republican Candidates Yet
        
Pawlenty Hopes 'I'm Sorry' Is Enough
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Live Blogging the G.O.P. Debate in New Hampshire

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (91%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (74%); FAMILY (74%); LITIGATION (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); FOSTER CARE (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%) 2012; barack obama; campaign; debate; Elections; Michele Bachmann; Minnesota; Bachmann, Michele M; Obama, Barack; Debates (Political); Presidential Election of 2012; Tea Party Movement; United States Politics and Government; Republican Party; New Hampshire; Congress; The 44th President; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (88%) Bachmann, Michele M; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Minnesota; New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



543 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: A Call for Lower-Key Debate on Debt Limit

BYLINE: SEAN COLLINS WALSH


HIGHLIGHT: At a conference of policy makers and budget experts, speakers call for lowering the volume on the debate over the federal debt ceiling.

 BODY:
Many of the nation's top economic and political power brokers gathered on Tuesday for a conference aimed at a more sober conversation regarding the federal budget.
Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, opened the conference with a brief statement urging Congress to establish a sustainable budget plan for the long term, while raising the debt limit without political brinkmanship in the short term.
"We should reform the government's tax policies and spending priorities," Mr. Bernanke said. The government needs "a clear and specific plan for stabilizing the ratio of debt to G.D.P."
"Failing to raise the debt limit in a timely way would be self-defeating," he said. "I am by no means recommending delay or inaction." He added, "I hope, though, that such a plan can be resolved in the near term without resorting to brinkmanship."
The conference, "The Debt Ceiling, Fiscal Plans and Market Jitters: Where Do We Go From Here?" featured a round-table discussion with dozens of notable United States policy makers and budget experts.
A sampling of the discussion:
 Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee, outlined the budget plan he put forward earlier this year and criticized Democrats for not unveiling their own. "You can't solve a budget crisis if you don't bother to pass a budget," Mr. Ryan said of the previous Congress's failure to pass a budget.
 Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, referring to the debt-limit talks, said, "Everything else that we talk about in Washington pales in comparison to this issue." He attacked the Republican leadership for drawing "bright lines," like categorically rejecting tax increases, that impede substantial negotiations.
 Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council, arrived late to the conference after meeting with the Gang of Six, a bipartisan group of senators working with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to propose a budget. Mr. Sperling said Congress should pursue a "bipartisan down payment on deficit reduction" in the near future to show that the United States was taking its deficit seriously. He also cautioned against playing politics with the debt-limit increase: "Nobody should use the default of the United States as a threat or a tactic."
 Franklin Raines, former chairman of the Federal National Mortgage Association, said, "The leadership in Congress is really putting themselves into a corner." The panelists were asked whether they thought Congress would agree to raise the debt limit before it recesses; Mr. Raines was one of only two participants who raised their hands to indicate that they did not think a deal would be reached.
 Barry Anderson, who has held leadership roles at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the International Monetary Fund, questioned how far Congressional brinkmanship would go in the standoff. "Would Congress adjourn without passing a debt limit?" he said.

        
House G.O.P. and Obama Have 'Frank Conversation' on Debt
        
Brown's Position on Ryan Budget Is Telling
        
Is the Ryan Budget a Litmus Test for 2012 Republicans?
        
Can Newt Gingrich Control Newt Gingrich? 
        
Paul Ryan Opts Out of Wisconsin Senate Run

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (97%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); DEBT CEILING (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%) ben bernanke; debt limit; gene sperling; Paul Ryan; Senator Mark Warner; Federal Budget (US); The Caucus

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (92%); BEN BERNANKE (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%); MARK WARNER (58%); FRANK RAINES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



544 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Perry Speaks, but Avoids Big Question

BYLINE: JIM RUTENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican governor of Texas unleashes a critique of President Obama, but doesn't say whether he wants his job.

 BODY:
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas came to Manhattan on Tuesday night to address local Republicans, and in the process stoked speculation about his ongoing presidential deliberations.
Mr. Perry did not answer the question so many reporters came to New York to ask -- when he would make up his mind. Perry staff members and local Republicans blocked the exit as he left the dinner, foiling reporters trying to ask him about his deliberations.
He was accompanied by David Carney, one of the aides who resigned last week from the campaign of former House Speaker Newt Gingrich. Mr. Carney has worked in all of Mr. Perry's races, and his decision to leave Mr. Gingrich's campaign was seen as a possible harbinger of Mr. Perry's intentions.
Speaking at the annual Lincoln Day dinner hosted by the New York County Republican Party, Mr. Perry gave an anti-Obama, anti-Democrat stemwinder that promoted his stewardship of Texas as a national model and critiqued Democrats for failing to revive the economy.
"This administration considers profit to be a dirty word," he said. "They think wealth needs to be spread around -- or, in their words, redistributed."
He thundered, "The federal government was created by the states to be an agent of the states -- not the other way around!"
Mr. Perry said Republicans should "restore the proper balance" between state and federal government and called the health care overhaul a "runaway train" that will destroy the states.
And, he vowed, "we will take America back." He did not say whether he would try to do that as a candidate for president.

        
Rick Perry's Bush Problem
        
Huntsman Opens Committee to Raise Money
        
Pawlenty Responds to Obama With a Video of His Own
        
Romney to Skip Iowa Straw Poll
        
The Problem With Obama's Re-Election Pitch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%) 2012 presidential election; republican; rick perry; Perry, Rick; Elections

PERSON: RICK PERRY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%) Perry, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



545 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Nudging Narcissus Toward the Door

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Day: There are plenty of lessons to be learned from the Anthony D. Weiner horror show, one of them being the peril of extreme egotism. Also, what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs.

 BODY:
There are plenty of lessons to be learned from the Anthony D. Weiner horror show, one of them being the peril of extreme narcissism, which has come to define our X-rated congressman.
 Indeed, judging from a new batch of photos that made it to the Internet, he is not unlike Narcissus of Greek mythology. The pictures show a near-naked Mr. Weiner clutching himself suggestively, enchanted by his own reflection as he stands before a full-length mirror in the House of Representatives gym.
 Another thing we have learned is that many of our political leaders in Washington seem incapable of keeping two unrelated ideas in their heads at the same time. In a rare display of bipartisanship, Democrats and Republicans alike bemoan how the sordid Weiner business is threatening their ability to concentrate on matters of greater weight.
 Everybody seems to be distracted by the Weiner affair. 
 "An unacceptable distraction," said Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, who is chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee. Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, a leading Republican, described it as "a ridiculous distraction."
 Gee, Mr. Weiner is caught sexting women and taking self-adoring pictures, and suddenly 435 representatives can no longer focus long enough to deal with the national debt ceiling or Medicare. Who knew they were so lacking in mental agility?
 Even President Obama is distracted. His press secretary, Jay Carney, said so on Monday. The president himself spoke up, too, pretty much pointing Mr. Weiner toward the door. "I can tell you that if it was me, I would resign," Mr. Obama said in an interview broadcast Tuesday morning on NBC's "Today" show. 
 Before that interview, Mr. Carney told reporters that "the president feels, we feel in the White House, that this is a distraction, obviously." 
 Ah, but at least "the president is focused on his job," he said. That was reassuring. It's one thing for Congress to be sidetracked. How unsettling would it be to have the president unable to devote full attention to the country's economic crisis and its two wars - two and a half, if you count Libya? And all because of one man's creepy misadventures on Twitter and Facebook. 
 As the demands pile up for the disgraced Mr. Weiner to resign from office, Mr. Obama's remarks on "Today" may amount to an irresistible shove out the door. If the congressman tries to tough it out, he may find it impossible to represent his Brooklyn-Queens district effectively ever again. His fellow Democrats could make life uncomfortable for him with actions like stripping him of committee assignments. 
 Let's be mindful of the politics behind all the moralizing and hand-wringing over this "distraction." Democrats, ever a frightened bunch, don't want to risk being labeled the party that is soft on sexual impropriety. And Republicans, ever a righteous bunch, want to cast themselves as the party of lofty standards.
 Somehow, those standards haven't always flown so high with sex scandals in their own ranks. Republican leaders didn't demand the immediate resignation of Representative Vito J. Fossella of Staten Island, one of their own, after police officers in Virginia stopped him in 2008 for drunken driving - while the married congressman was racing, it turned out, to the mistress with whom he had a child. Mr. Fossella was allowed to complete his term. 
 Then again, if Mr. Weiner doesn't resign, Congressional life could become ever more miserable for him. The staff of the House ethics committee is reported to have begun a preliminary inquiry, including into the question of whether he used government resources to send his lewd messages and photos.
 For what it's worth, things ended quite badly for Narcissus in Greek lore. He was unable to turn away from his own reflection, and died. Politically speaking, Mr. Weiner may have done the same thing to himself.
For full local Times coverage, including the revelation that $7.4 billion in New York State contracts were awarded to clients of law firms that employ state legislators over the last five years and the news that four lawmakers have flip-flopped to support gay marriage this time around, see the N.Y./Region section.
Here's what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs this morning.
A Connecticut doll maker released an Anthony D. Weiner action figure, both censored and anatomically correct models. [New York Post] (Also see The Daily News.)
New York's high school graduation rate is up, but most graduates remain unprepared for college. Also, thousands more students are expected to attend summer school this year. [Daily News] (Also see The New York Times.)
The police are searching for a man in the stabbing of 82-year-old Mazie Garris. It is her nephew Larry Brown, who they suspect stabbed her in the head in Harlem on Monday and then stole about $1,000. [Daily News] (Also see The New York Post.)
Some Brooklynites have taken a new, cost-effective approach to catering their wedding: multiple food trucks. [Wall Street Journal]
Two top girls' basketball coaches started a fistfight with each other and two players at a tournament at Fordham University on Sunday. [New York Post]
Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn will become the nation's largest urban campground starting July 4. [Daily News]
A Brooklyn man was removed from a flight to Newark after, the authorities said, uttering a curse while speaking to another passenger. (Warning: harsh language.) [Village Voice]
The Red Hook Initiative conducted a study of trash cans in Red Hook and found that the receptacles were more numerous in gentrified areas, leaving less-developed parts of the neighborhood often strewn with garbage. [Gowanus Lounge]
Park rangers are trying to determine what killed a long-eared owl found in Inwood on Monday afternoon. [DNA Info]
A swarm of bees descended on Mott Street in Chinatown on Monday. [Daily News]
Could Representative Weiner's troubles translate into a mayoral run for the Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz? Probably not, Mr. Markowitz said. [mcbrooklyn]

        
Unforgivable Behavior, Except When It's Not
        
A Congressional 'Sexting' Warning
        
Their Warhol Moment
        
A Candid, and Prophetic, Interview With Weiner
        
Republicans Challenge Democrats on Weiner Donations

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); SEXTING (77%); WOMEN (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); MEDICARE (65%); DEBT CEILING (65%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (63%); MYTHOLOGY (57%) Anthony D. Weiner; Anthony Weiner; Ethics; Weiner, Anthony D; Ethics (Institutional); United States Politics and Government; House of Representatives; The Day

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%) House of Representatives

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: ANTHONY D WEINER (95%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (57%) Weiner, Anthony D

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



546 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Relic of Saint Disappears From Its Case Inside Church

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
LONG BEACH, Calif. -- When missing something, devout Catholics often turn to St. Anthony of Padua, the patron saint of lost objects. Now, parishioners here are turning to him to pray for the return of his own relic. 
A 780-year-old relic of the saint disappeared on Monday morning, less than 48 hours after the Rev. Jose Magana displayed it at St. Anthony's Catholic Church as a way to reinspire parishioners.
''Many people here have lost a lot in this economy, and I thought, why not have them pray to St. Anthony?'' Father Magana said.
So when he rose to deliver his sermon on Sunday, he told his parishioners that St. Anthony could do more than help them find their lost car keys and wallet. ''He can restore your faith in God, your trust in the system, in yourself,'' he said to them.
When he finished, hundreds of worshipers lined up to pray before the relic, which was housed in an ornate gold reliquary, about 16 inches high, with angel-shaped handles. Father Magana reminded them that they could not touch it, and a few ushers stood guard at the glass case that held the reliquary.
The police have told Father Magana not to say exactly what the relic is; typically relics are body parts or clothes of a saint.
Merely seeing the relic is special -- it has not been on view since the 100th anniversary of the parish in 2002. Father Magana said there was no record of when it was displayed before then. The parish received the relic from the Vatican shortly after the parish was created, he said.
The police said they were searching for a woman who had been at each of the five Masses on Sunday and was unusually aggressive in trying to see or touch the object.
Father Magana said he last saw the relic just after 7 a.m. Monday, roughly an hour after the church opened. A few worshipers had begun coming in and out, as they often do on weekday mornings.
At 9 a.m., Father Magana was saying Mass on the anniversary of the saint's death and began invoking St. Anthony's name when he glanced over and noticed that the glass case was empty. The congregation gasped. Father Magana briefly considered stopping the Mass, but continued, calling the police after the service.
News of the missing relic has spread among the congregation, Father Magana said, with many parishioners in tears as they called him. He also cried yesterday, he said, blaming himself.
''There was a real sense of despair and I thought, 'I didn't take care of this,' '' he said. ''But I got up this morning and went back to the basics -- God will provide. I cannot be angry.''
Then, he added: ''I think this is divine providence asking us, 'Where is your faith?' Is it on the relic or is on God alone?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 780-year-old religious relic of St. Anthony of Padua, center in cabinet, was stolen Monday from a church in Long Beach, Calif. A police sketch shows a person of interest in the theft. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE REV. BRIAN DORAN
 LONG BEACH POLICE DEPARTMENT, VIA A.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



547 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Considerations Beyond The Sublime

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON

 BODY:
IS it worth it?
This is the question that has attended Masa, the stupendously expensive sushi emporium in the Time Warner Center, ever since it opened in 2004. The food at the restaurant is exceptional, offering tastes and preparations that can be unforgettable.
Take one bite of expertly diced, top-grade fatty bluefin tuna tartare cloaked in an equal measure of osetra caviar and discover a central truth: Masa, owned and operated by the chef Masayoshi Takayama, is one of New York's peak culinary indulgences.
That bite comes at some cost. Seven years ago, Masa had a base price of $300 a person, excluding tax, tip and upgrades like something to drink. Now it is $450 for the same fandango, an increase of 50 percent. A meal for two at the restaurant can easily run to $1,500 -- an amount that is a little more than 35 percent of the Census Bureau's most recent calculation of the median monthly household income in the United States. 
The relationships between cost and quality, experience and service have always been sticky ones for those who spend their time and money in restaurants, particularly in New York. Here are the best dumplings you may ever eat outside of China, five for $1. Over there, a steak to blow the mind of the biggest hat in Texas: it costs $190 for two people. One expensive restaurant has ironed tablecloths and nearly obsequious service. Another has placemats and plays the music of the Doobie Brothers, and loudly, too. How do we make sense of the differences among all these? Can that sense be quantified?
I went to Masa to explore those questions, in meals eaten over the course of more than 12 months, first in the spare, quiet dining room and later at the wide and sanded expanse of its hinoki-wood sushi bar. Much of my time was spent in a fog of pleasure, sitting dumbfounded on the shores of excess.
There is no menu and no choice afforded customers beyond deciding whether you want to spend an extra $120 for a plate of thinly sliced wagyu tataki with summer truffles. (In for a penny!) You simply surrender to the restaurant's will, which is no trial.
The quality of the ingredients and preparations were sometimes breathtaking. This was true from that toro-and-caviar dish that started my meals through the elegant kaiseki-style preparation of sea trout in a shabu-shabu broth, and from an indulgent bite of shaved summer truffles pressed onto sushi rice on through course after course of sushi to the grapefruit granite that signaled the end of recent meals.
The sushi particularly astonished. Takahiro Sakaeda, the chef who prepared two of my meals, paced the evenings with the studied wickedness of a great D.J. or playwright, building acts into the meal, replete with turning points, subplots and rising action. (Speaking of: on one night, Mr. Takayama did not even seem to be in the restaurant.)
Nearly all the fish Mr. Sakaeda prepared came from Japan, save some orange clam that one evening he allowed, with a small smile, to be local. There was horse mackerel and the deep-sea snapper known as kinmedai, squid and sea bream and fat red shrimp, all cut beautifully and served over ever-so-slightly warm sushi rice: a near-perfect vehicle for the fish. Mr. Sakaeda dressed these himself under a whisper of soy or a grain of Himalayan salt, depending, and passed them along like gifts.
There was soft, unctuous saltwater eel under the lightest dusting of yuzu zest, a zip that offset the marvelous oil of the fish. And there was delicate grilled tuna sinew, a vile texture transformed through fire into a silky, transcendent one, amazing to behold.
Mr. Sakaeda proved himself a brilliant guide to the gifts of the sea: a careful chef and eager teacher who rewarded interest with insight, pleasure with yet more.
But extraordinary food alone does not an extraordinary restaurant make. The experience of eating at Masa can clash, sometimes greatly, with the grace, simplicity and excellence of the cuisine on display.
One night I entered the 26-seat restaurant five minutes before my reservation time, arriving before my three guests. The room was empty, save for servers and one occupied table in the dining room. The woman at the restaurant's front checked my (fake) name off a short list of reservations on a piece of paper on a block of wood in front of her. She took my briefcase and placed it in a closet.
Then: ''You may wait outside,'' she said. ''When you return with your guests, please have your cellphone turned off or on silent.''
Masa is on the fourth floor of the Time Warner Center, in the midst of the mall's vaunted Restaurant Collection, an assemblage that includes Per Se and Porter House in addition to Masa and its pret-a-porter satellite restaurant, Bar Masa. Per Se is next door. It is hard to imagine anyone there asking a diner to wait outside for his guests.
There are other wrinkles in Masa's fine silk. At the sushi bar it is not uncommon for the prepared dishes served at the start of a meal, which are brought to the bar by servers, to be placed before customers with no explanation whatsoever. In the dining room it is possible for the same lapse to occur with the arrival of the sushi. It is unsettling, given the luxury of the food, and the question of its cost.
Some will take issue with the fact that Masa serves an enormous amount of bluefin tuna, a fish that some say hovers on the brink of collapse as a species. (The reason is presumably simple: its taste.) Others will cavil at the manner in which Mr. Takayama caters to some guests in the restaurant while ignoring others, in seemingly direct proportion to the amount of money they are spending.
(''Come stay with us in Sun Valley,'' a burgher said to Mr. Takayama one night, handing him a glass of Montrachet. ''I'll fly you in.'' Mr. Takayama raised the wine and laughed.)
Finally, meals at the restaurant end with a clank: you are given a dessert and it throws a switch. Everyone turns away and you will have little contact with the staff until you find someone to give you the bill. Guests stare at one another awkwardly: What do we do now?
At the end of its first year in business, Frank Bruni awarded Masa four stars in these pages, the newspaper's highest rating. Masa was the first Japanese restaurant to achieve four stars since Hatsuhana was reviewed by Mimi Sheraton in 1983. (Ms. Sheraton praised that restaurant's tempura and its inside-out rolls, while noting that the prices were lower than at other sushi restaurants in the city: ''$100 for two, with tax, tip and three Scotches each.'')
Masa, Mr. Bruni noted, ''is very much a restaurant of this time and place.''
That is perhaps no longer the case. Bruised by recession, wizened by experience, gun-shy about the future, New York City now demands of its four-star restaurants an understanding that culture at its highest must never feel transactional, whatever its cost. We ascend to these heavens for total respite from the world below, for extraordinary service and luxuriant atmosphere as much as for the quality of the food prepared.
Masa is the city's greatest sushi restaurant. That is not nothing.
Masa
Rating: 3 stars
Time Warner Center, 10 Columbus Circle, fourth floor; (212) 823-9800, masanyc.com.
ATMOSPHERE A spare, windowless and neutral-colored room, with just 26 seats and an aesthetic marked by bare sanded wood and a huge spray of flowers.
SOUND LEVEL Hushed.
WINE LIST A geographically diverse list of expensive wines and very expensive trophy wines, with sakes to match.
PRICE RANGE $450 prix fixe, lunch and dinner, excluding tax, tips and beverages.
HOURS For lunch, reservations taken for noon or 1 p.m. Tuesday to Friday. For dinner, 6 to 9 p.m. Monday to Saturday.
RESERVATIONS Recommended a few weeks ahead. Reservations must be guaranteed with a credit card. There is a penalty of $200 a person for cancellations within 48 hours of the dining date.
CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Restaurant is on one level, near an elevator from the lobby.
WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.
Correction: June 22, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A review last Wednesday about the restaurant Masa misspelled the name of a dessert. It is grapefruit granite, not gratinee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (D1)
 IN HIS HANDS: Masayoshi Takayama is the chef and owner of Masa, which opened in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMSAY DE GIVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MENU PRICES (77%); THEATER (69%); DRAMA LITERATURE (64%); CENSUS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2011



548 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: A Slowdown for Small Businesses

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
In the latest sign that the economic recovery may have lost whatever modest oomph it had, more small businesses say that they are planning to shrink their payrolls than say they want to expand them.
That is according to a new report released Tuesday by the National Federation of Independent Business, a trade group that regularly surveys its membership of small businesses across America.
The federation's report for May showed the worst hiring prospects in eight months. The finding provides a glimpse into the pessimism of the nation's small firms as they put together their budgets for the coming season, and depicts a more gloomy outlook than other recent (if equally lackluster) economic indicators because this one is forward-looking. 
While big companies are buoyed by record profits, many small businesses, which employ half of the country's private sector workers, are still struggling to break even. And if the nation's small companies plan to further delay hiring -- or, worse, return to laying off workers, as they now hint they might -- there is little hope that the nation's 14 million idle workers will find gainful employment soon.
''Never in the 37-year history of our company have we seen anything at all like this,'' said Frank W. Goodnight, president of Diversified Graphics, a publishing company in Salisbury, N.C. He says there is ''no chance'' he will hire more workers in the months ahead.
''We're being squeezed on all sides,'' he says.
Each month, the National Federation of Independent Business surveys the owners of small businesses about how they are doing and where they think the economy is going. One question asks whether businesses plan to increase or decrease the number of employees in the next three months. Economists then calculate a net hiring figure by subtracting the percentage of companies that plan to downsize from the percentage that plans to expand.
In May, the share of companies that planned to shrink their work forces was one percentage point higher than the share of companies that planned to expand them, the first time since last September that this indicator was negative. And even though it was slightly negative, this index, a fairly reliable indicator of hiring decisions, has been trending downward all year.
The unemployment rate has been stubbornly high in the last year, primarily because companies have stopped hiring, not laying off more workers. Although layoffs were at a record low in April, the latest monthly data available, Tuesday's survey suggests that workers may soon be challenged by both sides of the employment ledger.
With wages relatively stagnant in recent months, the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment survey found that workers' expectations for their families' income growth over the next year were at a record low. This is the first recovery in which, seven quarters in, there have been zero gains in aggregate wages and salaries.
Stagnant wages, coupled with the recent stock market slide and further declines in housing prices, have left consumers feeling not well-off enough to significantly increase their spending, which would encourage hiring.
''One thing you've got to understand is that we do not hire workers for the sake of hiring workers. We hire them to do jobs,'' Mr. Goodnight said. ''If we don't have the work coming in, nothing will make me hire another person.''
When asked about the ''single most important problem'' facing their businesses, about one in four cited ''poor sales,'' according to the federation's survey. Uncertainty over regulations is also mentioned frequently. About a third of businesses blame either ''taxes'' or ''government requirements'' for their current troubles, leading some economists to attribute the recent slide in overall business optimism to Washington's protracted debates over tax policy, financial changes and health care.
Meanwhile, larger businesses, sitting on mountains of cash, have been weathering the weak recovery relatively well.
The Business Roundtable CEO Economic Outlook survey, also released on Tuesday, is a less closely watched report that relies on responses from the chief executives of larger companies. It found that the number of large companies expecting their American work forces to grow in the next six months far outnumbers those that anticipate shrinkage.
''What we've had is a tale of two recoveries,'' said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics. ''Between large businesses and small businesses, it is literally the best of times and the worst of times.''
Several factors have helped larger companies succeed, economists say.
Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and a former economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., said, ''Larger businesses have consistently had more going for them in this recovery.''
He added: ''They have better access to credit markets. They have greater ease in exporting abroad where some economies are growing faster than ours. All that shows up in their profits.''
The one potential bright spot in the small-business survey involves industries that have had the smallest job growth but now seem willing to add jobs, according to William C. Dunkelberg, the chief economist for the federation.
These include construction and nonprofessional services like restaurants, which was crippled by the housing bust. Manufacturing, which had been the engine of job growth for many months before scaling back in May, also showed promise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); PUBLISHING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



549 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: To Be Good Citizens, Report Says, Companies Should Just Focus on Bottom Line

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
A new paper by an advisory firm that works with major corporations argues that companies would achieve more social good by simply focusing on the bottom line rather than social responsibility programs, double- and triple-bottom-line accounting and hybrid structures that have nonprofit and for-profit arms.
''Using a single bottom line allows companies to create social benefits in the most efficient way while continuing to maximize profits,'' said Daniel Altman, a consultant at the firm, Dalberg Global Development Advisors. 
He and his co-author, Jonathan Berman, also a Dalberg consultant, contend in particular that moves by companies to adopt double and triple bottom lines, which add to profit the measures of a company's social and environmental impact to evaluate performance, are distractions.
''The real social value comes overwhelmingly from what companies do through their core business, the skills and supply chains built up around them, and then the revenue that comes into government as a result of their profitability,'' Mr. Berman said.
Companies spent an estimated $14.1 billion on philanthropy in 2009, according to Giving USA, the annual report on giving produced by fund-raising consultants. Companies typically do not report how much they spend on corporate social responsibility, which is often part of the overall marketing budget.
The paper, which is being published by the Stern School of Business at New York University, where Mr. Altman is an adjunct professor, coincides with the debate over how corporations can be responsible global citizens.
Many wealthy business leaders recently have sought to emphasize the social impact that companies have, especially through jobs. Charles T. Munger, Warren E. Buffett's right-hand man at Berkshire Hathaway, for instance, once said he thought ''Costco does more for civilization than the Rockefeller Foundation.''
And Carlos Slim Helu, the Mexican billionaire, has said he believes his vast telecommunications and infrastructure businesses do more to advance social welfare through their creation of jobs than his philanthropy. ''Of course, business cannot replace philanthropy,'' he said in an interview last spring with The New York Times. ''But giving people work so they can help themselves is an important contribution to society.''
At the same time, a growing number of states -- including Michigan, Illinois and Utah -- have approved the establishment of low-profit, limited liability, or LC3, companies that are run like normal businesses except that making money is secondary to the goal of delivering social benefits.
Most important, the structure allows such business to tap into traditional capital markets and attract private investors, which nonprofits cannot do.
Mr. Altman noted that such government encouragement of corporate social activism was necessary sometimes, when market forces simply did not address a needed public service.
The paper emphasizes that companies that work for long-term profitability, in contrast to managing their business for quarterly performance, often generate public benefits as a byproduct. Mr. Berman cited Cargill as an example, which for decades has been giving cotton farmers in Africa seeds to grow foods.
The program creates two crop cycles, which is better for the soil, and over time, helps farmers affiliated with the company sell different crops.
Another example he cited was Exxon Mobil, which incorporates safety into its decisions about new exploration. Mr. Berman said the company did so because it lowered costs and thus enhanced profitability.
''Again and again, we've seen the most efficient way to create social benefits is by looking at how those benefits redound to the bottom line,'' said Mr. Altman, who wrote economic commentary and editorials for The Times previously in his career.
In contrast, the paper notes that traditional corporate social responsibility programs and corporate philanthropy aim primarily to produce a social benefit and that any profits that may materialize are byproducts.
But neither Mr. Berman nor Mr. Altman argues for ending these programs. ''I think they should simply be subjected to the same level of rigor as all the other investments companies make with the aim of improving profitability,'' Mr. Altman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); FOUNDATIONS (87%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BUDGETS (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); WRITERS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (67%); JOB CREATION (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (53%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (53%); BRK.A (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (53%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (51%); CARLOS SLIM HELU (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); BIHAR, INDIA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



550 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: China Navy Reaches Far, Unsettling The Region

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Shao Heng contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
QINGDAO, China -- The photographs of Chinese warships speeding between Japanese islands in the Pacific for drills circulated quickly last week, raising what Japan's defense minister called ''serious concern.''
Vietnam, with little forewarning, then began live-fire naval exercises off its coast -- a show of bravado in the face of rising tensions with China over rival claims to the oil- and gas-rich South China Sea. Protests against Chinese actions in the sea took place on the last two Sundays in both Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, with at least the tacit approval of the government. On Monday, the Vietnamese prime minister signed a decree giving details on a possible military draft.
The separate events reflect a new and potentially volatile pattern. As the Chinese government and the fast-modernizing naval branch of the People's Liberation Army extend the nation's maritime reach, uneasy neighbors are tracking Chinese vessels, including military and surveillance boats, fisheries law enforcement ships and fishing skiffs, and pushing back hard over anything deemed aggressive.
In recent weeks Vietnam, the Philippines and Japan have voiced concerns or made formal complaints over Chinese nautical movements. Some nations have deployed ships or aircraft to disputed waters. The United States, the dominant military force in the Pacific, is watching closely and has sought to bolster its alliances in the region. 
The growing confidence of the Chinese Navy is on open display. Here in the port of Qingdao, host to an impressive naval review in 2009, destroyers and a submarines are docked for public viewing at a seaside military museum that extols the navy's might. At a coastal city farther north, Dalian, the navy has been rebuilding an ex-Soviet aircraft carrier, the Varyag, which is expected to be operational this year.
American officials have said that one of the Chinese Navy's main goals in modernizing is to operate in an area where the United States currently has naval supremacy: the waters of the western Pacific that lie beyond Japan, Taiwan and the Philippines, what is commonly known as the ''first island chain.''
''At one level, this is the new 'normal,' '' Lyle Goldstein, a professor at the China Maritime Studies Institute at the United States Naval War College, said in an e-mail. ''This is especially true with respect to the group of Chinese P.L.A. navy ships going through the 'first island chain' to conduct a medium-sized exercise.'' Such exercises will become much more regular and likely grander, he added, ''especially once China adds a carrier to the mix.''
The Chinese Defense Ministry said last week that the Chinese ships spotted between the Japanese islands of Okinawa and Miyako were in compliance with international law. Their purpose was to conduct a ''regular exercise'' that was ''in accordance with the annual plan'' of the Chinese military, the ministry said.
The Japanese defense minister, Toshimi Kitazawa, said Friday that there had been a growing number of actions by Chinese vessels in the waters near Okinawa since 2008. ''We should be concerned about whether they would go beyond that or not,'' he said, according to Kyodo News. In April 2010, a large Chinese flotilla passed near Okinawa, and a Chinese helicopter flew within 300 feet of one of two Japanese destroyers that had begun following the Chinese vessels.
Last September, a diplomatic crisis erupted between China and Japan when the Japanese detained a Chinese fishing captain whom they accused of ramming two Japanese Coast Guard vessels patrolling disputed islands administered by Japan. There was no evidence of ties between the fisherman and the Chinese Navy, but analysts say Chinese civilian boats have been increasingly acting as proxies for the navy by trying to assert Chinese sovereignty in disputed waters.
Bernard D. Cole, a former United States Navy officer who teaches at the National War College, said he had heard the Chinese Navy was trying to expand operational control over the Fisheries Law Enforcement Command and other Coast Guard-like organizations.
Such boats have also been at the center of flare-ups in recent years in the South China Sea, which is claimed in part or in whole by China, Taiwan and four Southeast Asian nations. Foreign officials and analysts say the skirmishes this year have great potential to devolve into military conflict. ''The situation there seems to be escalating in dangerous ways,'' Mr. Goldstein said.
On May 26 and June 9, Chinese boats cut cables from Vietnamese oil exploration ships, Vietnamese officials say. Vietnam formally protested, saying the ships were inside its exclusive economic zone, 200 nautical miles off its coast. China contends that the ships were outside the zone. In the second case, Chinese officials say, armed Vietnamese ships were chasing a Chinese fishing vessel from the area, and a fishing net accidentally snagged the cable.
A Foreign Ministry spokesman, Hong Lei, asserted on June 7 that ''China has indisputable sovereignty over the South China Sea islands and adjacent waters.'' Though China has not explicitly delineated its territorial claims, critics in the region say it is relying on a map, drawn up by the old Kuomintang government and supported by the current Communist government, that shows virtually the entire South China Sea under Chinese dominion. Mr. Hong said China's position on the sea ''has remained unchanged for centuries,'' and has called on Vietnam and the Philippines to stop oil exploration there.
Philippine officials say China has provoked five to seven incidents with their country this year, said Carlyle A. Thayer, a professor at the Australian Defense Force Academy who studies the region. One of the most serious was on March 2, when two Chinese maritime surveillance ships ordered a Philippine survey boat to leave the area around Reed Bank and, according to the Philippines, threatened to ram the boat. The Philippines later sent military planes to the area. Mr. Hong said the Philippines should ''stop unilateral actions that impair China's sovereignty as well as maritime rights.''
But Mr. Thayer put the blame on China, saying ''a series of unilateral actions by China have raised serious tensions and potentially set China on a collision course with Vietnam and the Philippines.''
Analysts say the tensions will be a test for the United States, since it is allied with the Philippines and has grown closer to Vietnam. Last year, the United States publicly sided with Vietnam and other Southeast Asian nations at a regional meeting when Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke of a ''national interest'' in the sea and urged a solution to the disputes.
The territorial issue remains the time bomb, Mr. Cole said. ''Neither Beijing nor Hanoi has given any indication that they are willing to back off their claim to complete sovereignty over the land features,'' he said. ''That is the crux of the issue.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Chinese naval honor guard. China's navy has grown more assertive in recent years, rattling the nerves of maritime neighbors. (POOL PHOTO BY ANDY WONG) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); NAVIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); FISHERIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); APPROVALS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); FISHING LAW (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%) SOUTH CHINA SEA (92%); SHANDONG, CHINA (89%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) JAPAN (95%); CHINA (94%); VIET NAM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); VIETNAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



551 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Chancellor Leaving Troubled Wisconsin For the Presidency of Amherst College

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Carolyn A. Martin, the chancellor of the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a flagship public research university with 42,000 students, is resigning to become president of Amherst College, a prestigious liberal arts college with 1,750 students.
For most of this year, Dr. Martin, 60, and her campus have occupied center stage in the nation's politically charged battles over higher education.
In February, Wisconsin was roiled by the fight over the collective bargaining rights of public employees, including those at the university. In March, a state Republican Party official sought the release of the e-mails of a tenured professor in Madison who had criticized both Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican, and the party's position on collective bargaining. And Dr. Martin and Governor Walker spent months on an unsuccessful effort to split the Madison campus from the rest of the state's higher-education system, giving it greater flexibility in an era of reduced state financing. 
''Does everything that's occurred over the last year play a role?'' Dr. Martin, who is known as Biddy, asked in an interview. ''It would be foolhardy to say it played no role, but neither I nor anyone else could say exactly what role it played. It's been incredibly interesting. I really love it here, I got my Ph.D. here, and I feel like I'm leaving this university in a position where it will continue to make great progress.''
Throughout the battles in Madison, Dr. Martin has been a passionate advocate for public research universities. Amherst, she said, offers a chance to fight for other educational values she holds dear: liberal arts and access to higher education.
''Amherst is an opportunity to try to preserve and enhance another form of education that's also at risk: the liberal arts tradition in which I was educated,'' said Dr. Martin, who grew up in Lynchburg, Va., and attended the College of William and Mary before getting a doctorate in German literature at Madison. ''Amherst is a model for institutions committed to diversity and opportunity. Its size seems less relevant to me than the way it has acted on those values, showing what can be done, even at a small place.''
The news about Dr. Martin was announced at noon Tuesday at a news conference in Madison and in a letter to the Amherst community.
Amherst's president since 2003, Anthony Marx, who is leaving to head the New York Public Library, has gained national recognition for greatly increasing the college's racial and economic diversity. About 22 percent of its students this year received Pell grants -- federal assistance for low-income students -- a substantially higher share than at most other elite institutions. The college offers financial aid for low-income international students, and takes most of its transfer students from community colleges.
Don Randel, president of the Mellon Foundation and, like Dr. Martin, a former provost of Cornell University, said he was not surprised that she would leave Madison for Amherst.
''Biddy is a very talented academic who has always been closely involved with scholarly life and teaching students,'' Mr. Randel said. ''When you have a job like chancellor of Wisconsin, nothing can prevent you from losing touch with the things that set you out to become an academic in the first place, so this may be a return to those things.''
At the same time, he did not discount the toll of Dr. Martin's travails in Wisconsin.
''The situation in public higher education is extremely grim, bordering on absolutely disastrous, and in Wisconsin, it's been especially, let's say, dramatic,'' Mr. Randel said. ''Biddy took it on in a very bold way, more than anyone else I can think of in her position. While she has real stamina and is not a quitter, that has to have been difficult.''
Before being named chancellor in Wisconsin in 2008, Dr. Martin, who is known for her informal style, spent 25 years at Cornell, as professor of German studies and women's studies, senior associate dean in the College of Arts and Sciences, and provost for eight years.
Cullen Murphy, an Amherst trustee who served on the search committee, said he and his colleagues were impressed by Dr. Martin's advocacy for the liberal arts, her belief in the importance of access, diversity and affordability, and her personal warmth and humor.
''Private institutions like Amherst serve a public purpose just as much as public institutions,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''The scale may be different, but Amherst has been a leader on issues that are national and not strictly speaking private, like diversity and financial aid, and instilling in students a commitment to give back to the community.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carolyn A. Martin announcing her resignation from the University of Wisconsin on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG SCHREINER/WISCONSIN STATE JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); LITERATURE (73%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (61%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (91%)

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



552 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Markets Rise Sharply on Retail Sales and Other Economic Data

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks on Wall Street surged Tuesday after the United States government released new statistics on the economy, including a retail sales report that traders viewed as positive.
Analysts described the stronger market, which represented the Dow's biggest gain this month, as a relief rally.
David Krein, a senior director for Dow Jones Indexes, said investors were pleased with the retail sales report. Best Buy's fiscal first-quarter results also helped buoy the markets, Mr. Krein said. 
The company reported earnings of $136 million, or $0.35 a share, compared with $155 million, or $0.36 a share, for the same period in 2010. The results beat forecasts, and shares of Best Buy rose more than 4.5 percent to $30.13.
An indicator of consumer purchasing from the Commerce Department showed that overall retail sales in May declined by 0.2 percent, less than the 0.5 percent fall that had been forecast by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The figure was a reversal of the 0.3 percent increase in April, and it was the first monthly decline after 10 consecutive gains.
While the decline was not as steep as expected, economists cited areas of concern.
''With higher gas prices eating into the income available for discretionary spending, the consumer faces stiff headwinds,'' said Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR.
The Producer Price Index, which reflects commodity prices for manufacturers, rose 0.2 percent in May, according to seasonally adjusted figures provided Tuesday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The increase was slightly higher than the 0.1 percent analysts had forecast, and it was below the 0.8 percent rise in April.
The increase in May in the index was attributed mostly to prices for energy goods -- including gasoline and electricity -- which rose 1.5 percent, the eighth consecutive monthly advance. The food component of the index declined 1.4 percent.
Analysts suggested that the markets were helped after data from China pointed to an increase in industrial output as well as a rise in consumer prices that was in line with forecasts. That helped markets in Asia move higher, and the momentum continued in trading in Europe and the United States.
''It is a pretty powerful relief rally,'' said Keith B. Hembre, the chief economist and chief investment strategist at First American Funds.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 123.14 points, or 1.03 percent, to 12,076.11. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 16.04 points, or 1.26 percent, to 1,287.87. The Nasdaq composite index average climbed 39.03 points, or 1.48 percent, to 2,678.72.
The stock market had been in a six-week slump, partly fueled by concerns over the pace of the global and domestic economic recovery, and concerns over sovereign debt problems in the euro zone.
Protracted political wrangling over the national debt ceiling in the United States also has been a factor. Moody's Investors Service said early this month that it might downgrade the United States credit rating if lawmakers did not raise the ceiling ''in coming weeks.''
On Tuesday, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, warned about the consequences of continued delay, saying even a short suspension of payments on principal or interest on the Treasury's debt obligations could severely disrupt financial markets.
He also said that interest rates soared as investors lost confidence, as seen in a number of countries recently.
''Although historical experience and economic theory do not show the exact threshold at which the perceived risks associated with the U. S. public debt would increase markedly, we can be sure that, without corrective action, our fiscal trajectory is moving us ever closer to that point,'' he said.
On Tuesday, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note, which is linked to interest rates on mortgages and other borrowing, rose to 3.10 percent, from 2.98 percent late Monday. Its price fell 1 point, to 101 7/32.
Stocks, however, kept their momentum throughout the day.
J. C. Penney rose nearly 17.5 percent to $35.37, after the retailer announced that the head of Apple's retail stores would lead its company.
The Apple executive, Ron Johnson, will replace Myron E. Ullman III as Penney's chief executive on Nov. 1, the retailer said.
''The markets have been in a corrective stage, and I think we have reached levels now that perhaps we can see some renewed interest in terms of valuations,'' said Peter Cardillo, the chief market economist for Avalon Partners.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); GASOLINE PRICES (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EURO ZONE (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



553 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: In Shift, Interior Dept. May Allow Tribes to Build Casinos Far From Reservations

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Rescinding a Bush-era rule, the Interior Department said Tuesday that it would consider allowing Indian tribes to build casinos far from their reservations, raising the possibility that new gambling resorts could be built close to New York and elsewhere around the country.
The rule, adopted in January 2008, said that tribes could not open casinos beyond commuting distance from their reservations, and led to the rejection of at least 22 applications, including one by the St. Regis Mohawk tribe, which wanted to build a casino 350 miles from its reservation and 90 miles northwest of New York City. 
Another tribe seeking to build a casino near New York, the Stockbridge-Munsee, sued the department over the ruling, and New York's senior senator, Charles E. Schumer, lobbied heavily to have it overturned.
On Tuesday, Larry Echo Hawk, the assistant secretary for Indian affairs at the department, said the rule was being rescinded, adding that it ''was unnecessary and was issued without the benefit of tribal consultation.''
The change, however, does not guarantee that the casinos will be approved; the department will still take into account the views of local residents and elected officials, Mr. Echo Hawk said.
I. Nelson Rose, a professor at Whittier Law School in California and an expert on gambling and the law, said the decision was sure to prompt another round of casino proposals from tribes and their gambling company partners. ''There's just so much money involved,'' he said.
The decision could be seen as good news for a number of tribes, including the Mississippi Band of Choctaws, which operates two casinos on its reservation near Philadelphia, Miss., and had plans for a third, $375 million casino and hotel on land 175 miles away. In Wisconsin, the decision may also revive a proposal from the Lac Du Flambeau band of Chippewa Indians to build a casino 304 miles away from its reservation.
The Stockbridge-Munsee tribe, which is based in Wisconsin but has roots in New York, has sought for a decade to build a $560 million, Las Vegas-style casino near Monticello, in the Catskills. Despite its approval by New York State, the plan was rejected by the federal government in February.
The St. Regis Mohawks have also wanted to build a casino in the Monticello area. The rescinding of the rule could also could help the Shinnecock tribe, which gained federal recognition last year and has proposed building a casino in Nassau County, roughly 80 miles from its reservation in the Hamptons.
''This is another positive step forward for Indian gaming, and in our tribe's case, can help bring thousands of jobs to Long Island and keep millions in revenue here in New York,'' said Randy King, chairman of the Shinnecock Nation.
While the decision may prove a boon to Indian tribes, it comes during a period of rapid growth of legalized gambling around the country. The nine companies that operate electronic slot machine parlors at New York racetracks have fought the Stockbridge-Munsee proposal, noting that they are obligated to share more of their revenue with the state than Indian casinos do.
''This is not fair to existing gaming facilities that have invested billions of dollars in New York and are proud of contributing significant revenues to education -- more than $520 million last year alone,'' said James Featherstonhaugh, president of the New York Gaming Association.
Slot operators are lobbying to legalize full-scale gambling at their sites in order to protect their franchises from competition. Jeff Gural, who owns racetracks and slot parlors in Tioga and Vernon, said operators were lobbying the Legislature for a referendum on whether to allow poker and other table games at the racetracks.
The Interior Department is currently reviewing 10 applications for off-reservation casinos. Under federal law, a tribe wanting to build a casino on nonreservation land must first have the parcel transferred to the Interior Department, into a trust. The tribe must also obtain a federal determination that the planned casino would be in the best interests of the tribe, and not detrimental to the surrounding community.
In the 23 years since Congress passed the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, only five tribes have received approvals for off-reservation casinos.
''While this opens the door for gaming in the economically depressed Catskills, which has broad-based community support for the jobs it can bring,'' Senator Schumer said Tuesday, ''I will not support any casino proposal where strong community support does not exist.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (94%); GAMING (91%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); LOBBYING (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (78%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



554 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Pressure As Growth Lags in India

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS and LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- India's central government, convulsed by a series of corruption scandals, is under increasing pressure to deal with the potentially conflicting challenges of rising inflation and slowing growth.
But any effort to deal with the underlying problems that plague the Indian economy runs directly into powerful political interests.
On Tuesday, India's government said inflation increased 9.1 percent in May, compared with a year earlier, a higher rate than expected.
That came atop troubling economic data indicating India's gross domestic product growth had slowed, as companies spent less, foreign investment dropped and bad loans piled up at some banks. 
While India's long-term prospects remain strong, many economists and analysts say the country's central government needs to act quickly to ensure the short-term problems do not intensify. While slower growth could help curb inflation, critics are not confident the government has the policy finesse to address either problem adequately.
India faces ''an unpleasant trinity of moderating growth, high inflation and monetary tightening,'' said Rajeev Malik, senior economist for the investment bank CLSA in Singapore. ''It is very important that the government get its act together and begin to do something.''
In the first three months of this year, India's annual growth rate of gross domestic product slipped to 7.8 percent -- down from an 8.3 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of last year, and short of analysts' predictions.
The central government, led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, has been rocked by allegations of corruption and investigations into sweetheart deals worth billions of dollars between government ministers and businesses of various types -- most notably one involving the award of wireless communications licenses. The scandals have paralyzed decision-making and stalled development projects.
India, the second-fastest growing major economy after China, continues to have long-term forces that should be in its favor.
The country's youthful population, growing middle class and increased demand -- whether for refrigerators and cars, or housing and highways -- mean it could become the world's third-largest economy after China and the United States by 2030, Standard Chartered predicted this month. India's economy currently is currently ranked 10th, according to the International Monetary Fund.
Still, a recent flurry of negative economic indicators has set the stage for a rocky year. Inflation is a worry in most emerging markets, but critics say lapses and policy missteps by the central government have made the problem especially bad in India.
On Tuesday, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a group of leading free-market democracies, released a generally upbeat report on India's economic prospects. But it warned that without deeper policy overhauls the country would struggle to sustain its growth targets.
''Moving to a new level of growth will require renewing the momentum of reforms,'' said Angel Gurria, secretary general of the O.E.C.D. He called for lower barriers to international trade and investment, as well as revamping of the financial sector and the labor market.
Each of those issues is enveloped in a political thicket, though. And the current government has shown little willingness to even try changes. The O.E.C.D. report highlighted India's low spending on health -- just 1 percent of the country's G.D.P. -- and the contrast to the country's high spending on energy subsidies, at 9 percent of G.D.P.
Local investment growth slowed in the second half of the fiscal year that ended March 31 to 4.1 percent, down from a 14.7 percent rate at the beginning of the year.
Just as worrisome for an emerging economy, foreign investment in the first three months of 2011 fell 32 percent from the comparable period a year earlier, down to $3.4 billion, on top of a steep drop for all of 2010.
Meanwhile, bad loans are creeping up at some of India's government-run banks, particularly at the largest, State Bank of India. In the quarter that ended March 31, the bank doubled the amount of provisions for nonperforming assets from the previous quarter, according to Enam Securities in Mumbai.
Car sales, one of India's fastest-growing economic indicators, slowed in May to their slowest rate in two years, according to the Society of Automobile Manufacturers.
Montek Singh Ahluwalia, deputy chairman of India's Planning Commission, acknowledged that the economy was growing slower than the target annual rate of 9 to 9.5 percent set by officials.
He said that getting policy reforms on the agenda had been difficult. Reaching growth targets, he said, ''is not going to happen automatically -- there are things that need to be done.''
Inflation, meanwhile, threatens to become a bigger problem if agricultural productivity does not improve, said C. Rangarajan, head of the prime minister's Economic Advisory Council.
On Thursday, the Reserve Bank of India is expected to raise its key borrowing rate for the 10th time since March 2010 -- to 7.5 percent, from the current 7.25 percent. The move may further curb growth but have little effect on inflation, analysts said, because a big inflationary force involves structural problems in India's food distribution, subsidies and infrastructure.
Revising interest rates is generally considered a blunt instrument even in organized economies. In India, where the economy is complicated by factors as diverse as fuel subsidies and infrastructure bottlenecks, the central bank's capacity for precision is even more limited.
Even as food prices skyrocket, the government has failed to fix an agricultural distribution system that means about 40 percent of India's farm output rots before it is eaten, analysts note.
''You still need to develop your farm-to-fork model,'' said Rohini Malkani, an economist with Citigroup in Mumbai, citing need for improvements in warehousing and transportation. Although the government has noted and discussed these problems, progress has been very limited, she said.
The central government's inaction on infrastructure and food distribution is helping drive up inflation -- even as the government is making the problem worse through farmer-friendly policies like raising minimum prices for food and grains.
''Part of the inflation problem is the government's doing,'' said Mr. Malik of CLSA. ''They've chosen to improve the terms of trade for the rural economy,'' he said, ''and it is coming at the cost of the urban economy.''
But Kaushik Basu, the government's chief economic adviser, said in an interview Monday that inflation was a problem all developing countries were facing. ''If you look at emerging economies around the world,'' Mr. Basu said, ''India's performance looks pretty run of the mill.''
He said recent skepticism about India's growth prospects was overblown.
''Just like you have irrational exuberance, occasionally you have irrational pessimism as well,'' he said. ''My own view is that for the full year, growth will be a little less than what we were forecasting. But all the long-run indicators like investment and savings are going in the right direction.''
The government's critics, however, take a harsher view. ''The last two years have been a lost opportunity'' for India's governing United Progressive Alliance party, Citigroup said this month in a research report.
The party's victory in 2009 fueled high expectations of a strong change-oriented agenda, which would address issues like banking regulation, land acquisition and pension reform. ''Two years down the road,'' Citigroup said, ''the U.P.A. has disappointed on most counts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A metal workshop in Mumbai. India's industrial output growth dipped in April as credit costs and inflation braked the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANISH SIDDIQUI/REUTERS)
 Activa scooters under assembly at a Honda plant in Rajasthan state. After a surge ahead in 2010, vehicle sales are slowing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADNAN ABIDI/REUTERS) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); SCANDALS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); STATISTICS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (66%); WIRELESS REGULATION (50%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (78%) RAJASTHAN, INDIA (58%) INDIA (98%); CHINA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



555 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Justice Goes Global

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
You probably missed the recent special issue of China Newsweek, so let me bring you up to date. Who do you think was on the cover -- named the ''most influential foreign figure'' of the year in China? Barack Obama? No. Bill Gates? No. Warren Buffett? No. O.K., I'll give you a hint: He's a rock star in Asia, and people in China, Japan and South Korea scalp tickets to hear him. Give up?
It was Michael J. Sandel, the Harvard University political philosopher. 
This news will not come as a surprise to Harvard students, some 15,000 of whom have taken Sandel's legendary ''Justice'' class. What makes the class so compelling is the way Sandel uses real-life examples to illustrate the philosophies of the likes of Aristotle, Immanuel Kant and John Stuart Mill.
Sandel, 58, will start by tossing out a question, like, ''Is it fair that David Letterman makes 700 times more than a schoolteacher?'' or ''Are we morally responsible for righting the wrongs of our grandparents' generation?'' Students offer competing answers, challenge one another across the hall, debate with the philosophers -- and learn the art of reasoned moral argument along the way.
Besides being educational, the classes make great theater -- so much so that Harvard and WGBH (Boston's PBS station) filmed them and created a public television series that aired across the country in 2009. The series, now freely available online (at www.JusticeHarvard.org), has begun to stir interest in surprising new places.
Last year, Japan's NHK TV broadcast a translated version of the PBS series, which sparked a philosophy craze in Japan and prompted the University of Tokyo to create a course based on Sandel's. In China, volunteer translators subtitled the lectures and uploaded them to Chinese Web sites, where they have attracted millions of viewers. Sandel's recent book -- ''Justice: What's the Right Thing to Do?'' -- has sold more than a million copies in East Asia alone. This is a book about moral philosophy, folks!
Here's The Japan Times describing Sandel's 2010 visit: ''Few philosophers are compared to rock stars or TV celebrities, but that's the kind of popularity Michael Sandel enjoys in Japan.'' At a recent lecture in Tokyo, ''long lines had formed outside almost an hour before the start of the evening event. Tickets, which were free and assigned by lottery in advance, were in such demand that one was reportedly offered for sale on the Web for $500.'' Sandel began the lecture by asking: ''Is ticket scalping fair or unfair?''
But what is most intriguing is the reception that Sandel (a close friend) received in China. He just completed a book tour and lectures at Tsinghua and Fudan universities, where students began staking out seats hours in advance. This semester, Tsinghua started a course called ''Critical Thinking and Moral Reasoning,'' modeled on Sandel's. His class visit was covered on the national evening news.
Sandel's popularity in Asia reflects the intersection of three trends. One is the growth of online education, where students anywhere now can gain access to the best professors from everywhere. Another is the craving in Asia for a more creative, discussion-based style of teaching in order to produce more creative, innovative students. And the last is the hunger of young people to engage in moral reasoning and debates, rather than having their education confined to the dry technical aspects of economics, business or engineering.
At Tsinghua and Fudan, Sandel challenged students with a series of cases about justice and markets: Is it fair to raise the price of snow shovels after a snowstorm? What about auctioning university admissions to the highest bidder? ''Free-market sentiment ran surprisingly high,'' Sandel said, ''but some students argued that unfettered markets create inequality and social discord.''
Sandel's way of teaching about justice ''is both refreshing and relevant in the context of China,'' Dean Qian Yingyi of Tsinghua's School of Economics and Management, explained in an e-mail. Refreshing because of the style and relevant because ''the philosophic thinking among the Chinese is mostly instrumentalist and materialistic,'' partly because of ''the contemporary obsession on economic development in China.''
Tsinghua's decision to offer a version of Sandel's course, added Qian, ''is part of a great experiment of undergraduate education reform currently under way at our school. ... This is not just one class; it is the beginning of an era.''
Sandel is touching something deep in both Boston and Beijing. ''Students everywhere are hungry for discussion of the big ethical questions we confront in our everyday lives,'' Sandel argues. ''In recent years, seemingly technical economic questions have crowded out questions of justice and the common good. I think there is a growing sense, in many societies, that G.D.P. and market values do not by themselves produce happiness, or a good society. My dream is to create a video-linked global classroom, connecting students across cultures and national boundaries -- to think through these hard moral questions together, to see what we can learn from one another.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PHILOSOPHY (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LOTTERIES (76%); TICKET SALES (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (56%); DAVID LETTERMAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) CHINA (96%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (88%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



556 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
NEIGHBORS GROW UNEASY
WITH CHINA'S NAVAL MOVES
The photographs of Chinese warships speeding between Japanese islands in the Pacific for drills circulated quickly last week, raising what Japan's defense minister called ''serious concern.'' Vietnam, with little forewarning, then began live-fire naval exercises off its coast -- a show of bravado in the face of rising tensions with China. PAGE A11 
MILITANTS KILL 7 IN IRAQ
A team of six gunmen and suicide bombers dressed in police uniforms attacked a provincial council's offices in northeastern Iraq, the latest in a string of brazen assaults against police and government buildings aimed at puncturing the country's uneasy security. PAGE A8
National
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT FAULTED
FOR ILLEGAL GUNS IN MEXICO
In a report issued by the chairmen of two powerful Congressional committees, the Justice Department was accused of conducting an operation that allowed nearly 1,000 guns to flow illegally into Mexico, including two that were eventually found at the scene of the murder of an American Border Patrol agent. PAGE A20
New York
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE
IS ONE VOTE SHY OF PASSAGE
New York was on the cusp of legalizing gay marriage, after a second Republicansstate senator came forward to support the measure, leaving it a single vote shy of passage. PAGE A24
Business
UNION PUSHES WAL-MART,
BUT TRIES A NEW TACK
After numerous failed attempts to unionize Wal-Mart stores, the nation's main union for retail workers has decided to try a different approach: it has helped create a new, nonunion group of Wal-Mart employees that intends to press for better pay, benefits and working conditions. PAGE B1
SMALL BUSINESSES SLOW DOWN
In the latest sign that the economic recovery may have lost whatever modest oomph it had, a new report found that more small businesses say that they are planning to shrink their payrolls than say they want to expand them. PAGE B1
Pressure as Indian Growth Lags B1
Cutting the Deficit, Adding Jobs B1
Sports
LOCKOUT COULD COST PLAYER
CARE AT DEMENTIA FACILITY
The potential casualties of the N.F.L.'s work stoppage include players, owners and, eventually, parking-lot attendants and many others whose work is tied to the sport. The lockout's first victim, however, could be a former merchant seaman from Brooklyn who now lies inert in a dementia-care facility. PAGE B14
Arts
SHARING A LIFE
WITH A GAY EX-HUSBAND
In a new sitcom, ''Happily Divorced,'' Fran Drescher borrows from her real life, playing a woman who is not fazed by her husband's revelation that he is gay and continues to live with him even after they split. Review by Alessandra Stanley. PAGE C1
Dining
THE HOME KNIFE RACK
GOES HIGH-END
Privileged cooks have long used artisanal, carbon steel knives, a set of which could cost thousands of dollars. But more home cooks are opting for the expensive knives favored by high-end chefs. PAGE D4
OP-ED
Thomas Friedman PAGE A27
Maureen Dowd PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (87%); LOCKOUTS (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); MURDER (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (74%); MARRIAGE LAW (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); DEMENTIA (68%); STRIKES (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (54%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (54%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



557 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Government Will Try to End Worker Strike at Air Canada

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- The Canadian labor minister introduced a motion on Tuesday that could legislate an end to a strike by Air Canada's airport customer service agents if a negotiated settlement proves impossible.
The minister, Lisa Raitt, said in an interview that a prolonged strike at Air Canada, which has about 56 percent of the domestic air travel market, would impair Canada's economy.
''As time goes by there will be a critical mass point where service will fall apart,'' she said, adding that any legislation was unlikely to clear Parliament until the middle of next week at the earliest. 
The airline moved swiftly to replace the 3,800 workers who went on strike early Tuesday morning. Those on strike are members of the Canadian Auto Workers union, and they were replaced by about 1,700 managers. The Toronto Star also reported that guards, not in uniform, from a private security firm were brought in to assist travelers with electronic check-in kiosks at airports.
Although Air Canada said that it would continue to offer all scheduled flights, airline officials made it clear that it would not be travel as usual.
In an online video for customers, Duncan Dee, Air Canada's executive vice president and chief operating officer, encouraged travelers to check in online because ''we expect long lineups at our kiosks.'' He added, ''We advise strongly against checking baggage in.''
There were some flight cancellations and delays on Tuesday, particularly during the morning flight rush, but it was not clear if they were related to the strike or other factors.
Negotiations between Air Canada and the union collapsed late Monday night over pension issues, Ken Lewenza, the president of the autoworkers' union, said in an interview.
''Air Canada put a line in the sand and said these were the issues that were show-stoppers,'' Mr. Lewenza said from Toronto. After meeting with a conciliator appointed by the federal government on Tuesday morning, Mr. Lewenza said that it was unlikely the talks would soon restart.
Air Canada did not respond to requests for comment.
Air Canada's only nationwide competitor in the domestic market is WestJet, a low-cost carrier based in Alberta. But WestJet does not fly beyond the United States and the Caribbean, making Air Canada the country's only full-service airline with overseas routes.
Air Canada is in negotiations with four other unions and locals, representing the balance of its work force of about 26,000. Last month, its pilots rejected a tentative contract with the airline. None of the other unions is in an immediate strike position under Canadian law.
Chris Murray, an analyst with PI Financial in Toronto, said that a pension shortfall of about 2.1 billion Canadian dollars was at the center of those negotiations. The federal government will require the carrier to eliminate that deficit over five years beginning in 2014.
''The problem is that when it comes time to write the check for that you need cash,'' Mr. Murray said. Paying off the current shortfall will cut the marginally profitable airline's cash flow by about 400 million Canadian dollars a year.
That amount, Mr. Murray said, may make it difficult for Air Canada to finance a planned purchase of Boeing 787 airliners.
Mr. Lewenza said that Air Canada was seeking to change a number of rules involving current employees' benefits, particularly those governing when they would be able to collect a pension. The airline also wants to put future employees into a separate, less generous pension plan, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); STRIKES (91%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PORT STRIKES (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (72%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (68%); INTERNET VIDEO (66%)

COMPANY: AIR CANADA (92%)

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%) ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (59%) CANADA (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



558 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Bachmann Wins Over Some Skeptics

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
The key question for Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota before the Republican debate on Monday night was whether she could appeal to voters beyond the Tea Party wing that she helped to create, while avoiding the gaffes that have sometimes emerged from her strident, passionate persona.
By most accounts, she did just that. Ms. Bachmann toned her rhetoric down a bit and offered herself as a competent, knowledgeable insider who would nonetheless carry on the fight against big government with the zeal of a Tea Party activist. 
''I'm a former federal tax litigation attorney, I'm a businesswoman,'' she said in the introductions, addressing herself to a national audience that generally has had just fleeting exposure to her career in Congress. ''I've had five children,'' she continued, ''and we are the proud foster parents of 23 great children.''
Over the debate's two hours, Ms. Bachmann was clearly trying to catch the attention of voters who have been wary of her often-intense brand of politics: establishment Republicans; pragmatists who want someone electable; foreign policy conservatives; and middle-American families who are struggling economically.
Her admirers said she showed an ability to speak out on behalf of their issues without coming across as a niche candidate.
''She answered the questions that people had: Could she hang with the leaders? Would she make a gaffe?'' said Andrew Hemingway, president of the New Hampshire Republican Liberty Caucus, a Tea Party group that has not backed a candidate in the race so far.
''In her demeanor, in the way that she carried herself - she walked out of that debate where everybody said, 'She is a very serious candidate,' '' Mr. Hemingway said Tuesday.
Ms. Bachmann still faces hurdles to winning the Republican nomination. As a first-time national candidate, she remains largely unknown to most voters, and she has stumbled in recent weeks as she ramped up her campaign.
She angered Republican activists in Iowa last month by skipping a scheduled in-person speech because of a vote in Congress, and then flubbing a video-over-Internet speech to the activists that was plagued with technical troubles. Earlier, she made headlines by saying that the opening shots of the Revolutionary War were fired in New Hampshire rather than in Massachusetts.
Ms. Bachmann appeared to contradict herself on Monday when she first said she was against federal interference in state decisions about gay marriage, and then said she supported amending the Constitution to define marriage as between a man and a woman, which would overturn the state decisions.
A video clip announcing that she was formally joining the race as a candidate - released as she was making that intention known during the debate - was devoid of the flashy production values of similar videos by others in the field.
Still, Ms. Bachmann has advantages over some of her rivals. She is a prodigious fund-raiser who has tapped into the Tea Party movement for financial support and can transfer millions of dollars from her Congressional account into a presidential one. That money will be available immediately to finance ads and pay for a campaign operation.
And that operation is quickly taking on a more establishment hue.
Several weeks ago, Ms. Bachmann hired the Republican strategist Ed Rollins as a top adviser. He is a veteran of campaigns dating to Ronald Reagan's, and brings a national perspective to her team. She has also recently hired Ed Goeas as her pollster; he also has decades of experience with national Republican candidates.
Those moves suggest that Ms. Bachmann, who is often mocked by late-night comedians and liberal cable hosts as a nutty right-winger, wants to dispel that caricature as she pursues the nomination.
During the debate, she made that case indirectly as she answered a question about what the Republican Party needs to win back the White House; in a different context, she might have been talking about her own campaign:We need the peace-through-strength Republicans, we need the fiscal conservatives, we need the social conservatives. We need everybody to come together, because we're going to win. Just make no mistake about it. I want to announce tonight, President Obama is a one-term president!On foreign policy, she emphasized her credentials, noting that she sits on the House Select Committee on Intelligence, saying, ''We deal with the nation's vital classified secrets.'' Then she took a swipe at Mr. Obama over Libya, saying that ''we to this day don't yet know who the rebel forces are that we're helping'' and adding, ''The president was absolutely wrong in his decision on Libya.''
True to her Tea Party roots, Ms. Bachmann promised not to vote to raise the nation's debt ceiling and decried the federal bank bailout votes that were pushed through by fellow Republicans. ''Sometimes that's what you have to do,'' she told the debate audience. ''You have to take principle over your party.''
She also continued her intense criticism of Mr. Obama's health care plan, a staple of her appearances on television and on the stump.
''As president of the United States, I will not rest until I repeal Obamacare,'' she said. ''It's a promise, take it to the bank, cash the check - I'll make sure that that happens.''
Jenny Beth Martin, the co-founder of the Tea Party Patriots, a group in Atlanta that has not endorsed a candidate in the race, observed that Ms. Bachmann was often shown on television in ''fight mode,'' criticizing Democrats or members of her own party, and often came off as shrill.
''This time, she was able to just stand up for herself and present herself,'' Ms. Martin said in an interview. ''It was a more calm demeanor. It wasn't in a fight mode. It was in a 'this is who I am' mode. She seemed very comfortable and in command of the issues.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); FAMILY (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); LITIGATION (70%); FOSTER CARE (68%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%)

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



559 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: U.S. History Is Still Troublesome for U.S. Students, Nationwide Tests Show

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
American students are less proficient in their nation's history than in any other subject, according to results of a nationwide test released on Tuesday, with most fourth graders unable to say why Abraham Lincoln was an important figure and few high school seniors able to identify China as the North Korean ally that fought American troops during the Korean War.
Over all, 20 percent of fourth graders, 17 percent of eighth graders and 12 percent of high school seniors demonstrated proficiency on the exam, the National Assessment of Educational Progress. Federal officials said they were encouraged by a slight increase in eighth-grade scores since the last history test, in 2006. But even those gains offered little to celebrate because, for example, fewer than a third of eighth graders could answer even a ''seemingly easy question'' asking them to identify an important advantage American forces had over the British during the Revolution, the government's statement on the results said. 
Diane Ravitch, an education historian who was invited by the national assessment's governing board to review the results, said she was particularly disturbed by the fact that only 2 percent of 12th graders correctly answered a question concerning Brown v. Board of Education, which she called ''very likely the most important decision'' of the United States Supreme Court in the past seven decades.
Students were given an excerpt including the passage, ''We conclude that in the field of public education, separate but equal has no place, separate educational facilities are inherently unequal,'' and were asked what social problem the 1954 ruling was supposed to correct.
''The answer was right in front of them,'' Ms. Ravitch said. ''This is alarming.''
The tests were given last spring to a representative sample of 7,000 fourth graders, 11,800 eighth graders and 12,400 12th graders nationwide. History is one of eight subjects -- the others are math, reading, science, writing, civics, geography and economics -- covered by the assessment program, which is also known as the Nation's Report Card. The board that oversees the program defines three achievement levels for each test: ''basic'' denotes partial mastery of a subject; ''proficient'' represents solid academic performance and a demonstration of competency over challenging subject matter; and ''advanced'' means superior performance.
If history is American students' worst subject, economics is their best: 42 percent of high school seniors were deemed proficient in the 2006 economics test, a larger proportion than in any other subject over the last decade. But Jack Buckley, commissioner of the statistical center at the Department of Education that carries out the tests, said on Monday that because the assessments in each subject were prepared and administered independently, it was not really fair to compare results across subjects.
On the 2010 history test, the proportion of students scoring at or above proficiency rose among fourth graders to 20 percent from 18 percent in 2006, held at 17 percent among eighth graders, and fell to 12 percent from 13 percent among high school seniors.
On the test's 500-point scale, average fourth- and eighth-grade scores each increased three points since 2006. But officials said only the eighth-grade increase, to 266 in 2010 from 263 in 2006, was statistically significant. Average 12th-grade scores dropped, to 288 in 2010 from 290 in 2006.
While changes in the overall averages were microscopic, there was significant upward movement among the lowest-performing students -- those in the 10th percentile -- in fourth and eighth grades and a narrowing of the racial achievement gap at all levels. On average, for instance, white eighth-grade students scored 274 on the latest test, 21 points higher than Hispanic students and 23 points above black students; in 2006, white students outperformed Hispanic students by 23 points and black students by 29 points.
History advocates contend that students' poor showing on the tests underlines neglect shown to the subject by federal and state policy makers, especially since the 2002 No Child Left Behind act began requiring schools to raise scores in math and reading but in no other subject. The federal accountability law, the advocates say, has given schools and teachers an incentive to spend less time on history and other subjects.
''History is very much being shortchanged,'' said Linda K. Salvucci, a history professor in San Antonio who is chairwoman-elect of the National Council for History Education.
Many teacher-education programs, Ms. Salvucci said, also contribute to the problem by encouraging aspiring teachers to seek certification in social studies, rather than in history. ''They think they'll be more versatile, that they can teach civics, government, whatever,'' she said. ''But they're not prepared to teach history.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); KOREAN WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); STATISTICS (76%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



560 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Cutting The Deficit, Adding Jobs

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
When Joe Biden convened debt ceiling negotiations with Congressional leaders on May 5, the experts were saying that the economy was on an upswing. They're not saying that anymore.
Consumer spending has weakened. Hiring has slowed. Stocks have slid. As tends to be the case in the long aftermath of a financial crisis, the economy once again needs help.
And the debt talks have become the best opportunity for Washington to provide that help. 
Doing so will require some political maturity, because the negotiators will have to hold on to two thoughts simultaneously. They will need to increase the deficit in some modest, targeted ways that could increase hiring, like tax cuts for businesses and spending on scientific research. At the same time, negotiators will have to find enough medium-term spending cuts and tax increases to bring down the deficit soon.
Economically, this mix is not all that complicated. Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, has called for a version of it, in his own cautious way. Coming up with a plan to reduce the deficit was urgent, he said, but making cuts now ''could be self-defeating if it were to undercut the still-fragile recovery.''
Politically, the mix is clearly trickier. Yet both parties have reason to compromise. Democrats are worried -- or at least they should be, deeply -- that the weak economy will cost them the White House and Senate next year.
Republicans are worried that their plan to replace Medicare with a system of private insurance will let Democrats win even if the economy remains weak. A deal that commits both parties to further cuts in Medicare's growth while also helping the economy seems to have a chance of passing.
For the economy's sake, the best such deal would include two kinds of help. The first would be immediate: further tax cuts for households and businesses, as well as an extension of jobless benefits. On Tuesday, the White House signaled that it was open to new cuts in the payroll tax. These moves could help lift spending and re-establish the confidence that the economy would indeed recover, as it always has before.
The second kind of help might be even more important: policies that would eventually shift the country away from its debt-fueled reliance on consumption and toward more investment, production and high-end service industries.
I understand that some of these steps, especially in the first category, smack of stimulus. Many people are understandably skeptical of stimulus, given that the economy remains in bad shape despite everything the government has tried over the last four years.
But the earlier stimulus made a big difference, even if it couldn't erase the impact of the worst financial crisis in decades. The tax rebates signed by President George W. Bush and President Obama both lifted spending. So did the cash-for-clunkers vehicle rebate program. The billions of dollars of state aid prevented layoffs of teachers, police officers and sanitation workers.
It is no coincidence that this downturn has been far less severe than the Great Depression, even though the initial deterioration this time was worse. It's no coincidence that the only quarter of economic growth in 2008 was the quarter when the Bush rebate checks went out. It's no coincidence that the economy's most rapid improvement and fastest growth under Mr. Obama came as his stimulus plan and the Fed's actions were peaking.
A new plan -- sure to be called a jobs plan, not a stimulus -- would start by extending the payroll tax cut for households through the end of next year.
Late last year, Congress and the White House extended the Bush income tax cuts through the end of 2012 but cut the payroll tax only through 2011. This makes little sense, substantively. The payroll tax (which finances Social Security and Medicare) has become the main tax that most middle- and lower-income households pay, according to the Tax Policy Center. So cutting the payroll tax delivers more economic bang than the Bush tax cuts, at a far lower cost to the deficit.
Absent an extension, almost everybody's taxes will rise on Jan. 1. ''When the economy is not doing well,'' says Ike Brannon of the conservative American Action Forum, ''you hate to see any tax increase.''
Employers also pay a portion of the payroll tax, and several people -- including Lawrence Summers and the members of the Bipartisan Policy Center's debt panel -- have called for the employer portion to be cut, too. That would certainly help. But I think the strongest argument is for a targeted cut.
Any business that increased its net employment could be exempted from payroll taxes on new workers for a few years, creating a big incentive to hire instead of, say, buying new machines. The exemption could be retroactive to June 1, so that companies would not wait to hire until after the bill passed.
Corporate lobbyists defeated this idea last time -- because executives wanted federal money even if they were not hiring -- but that's just self-interest.
And what about policies to begin restructuring the economy?
Economists can give you a long list. High-skill immigrants, often the entrepreneurs of tomorrow, could be encouraged to stay here, rather than shown the door. The permit process for businesses could become simpler, as executives urged Mr. Obama in North Carolina on Monday. Perhaps most important, Washington could make more high-return investments in science and education.
Only the federal government can afford the large-scale basic science that has often led to breakthrough innovations, like the semiconductor, the Internet and many new drugs. Yet federal spending on basic research, as a share of the economy, has fallen 5 percent in the last five years. Talk about a self-defeating cut.
All told, a growth agenda like this one would cost a few hundred billion dollars over the next couple of years. It's small change relative to any number of ways to reduce the deficit: squeezing wasteful Medicare and military spending, reforming the Social Security disability program, forcing social programs to become more accountable for results, closing corporate tax loopholes, returning tax rates on the rich to Clinton-era levels.
Obviously, any package that survives the debt ceiling talks will not be the ideal one. But there is a whole lot of room between neutral and ideal. Washington really can put people back to work while cutting the deficit. And, of course, moving people back into paying jobs will ultimately help reduce the deficit, too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., center, met with Congressional leaders on May 5 to talk about raising the debt ceiling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MEDICARE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (60%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



561 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Apple Stores Chief to Take the Helm at J.C. Penney

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD and MIGUEL HELFT; Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
J. C. Penney has poached the head of Apple's retail stores to head the department store chain, betting that a deity of the digerati can revive its sales in the same way he found success in brick-and-mortar stores for Apple.
Ron Johnson of Apple will become Penney's chief executive on Nov. 1, when Myron E. Ullman III, the current chief executive, steps down to become executive chairman, the company said Tuesday. 
Given that most products can be bought online, retailers have been trying to give shoppers reasons to go to stores -- known as ''retail theater'' or ''retailtainment'' in the industry. Arguably, no business has done that better than Apple under Mr. Johnson, who turned the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets.
Retail analysts said the expectation was that Mr. Johnson could similarly transform Penney, which like many traditional big mall retailers has been struggling since the recession and the huge growth of online shopping.
''If he can take a little bit of that magic and sprinkle it on to J. C. Penney, you could really create the next generation of retailing,'' said Deborah Weinswig, a retail analyst with Citigroup. ''We're at a very interesting kind of intersection right now where retail needs to be fun, it needs to be exciting.''
Since Mr. Johnson did not seem to be in line for the chief executive job at Apple, the move to J. C. Penney, based in Plano, Tex., gives him a chance to run a company. Still, it was seen as a surprising step at a time when Apple's retail stores continue to thrive.
''My lifetime dream has been to lead one of the large great retailers, to reimagine what it could be,'' said Mr. Johnson, who was vice president for merchandising at Target Stores before joining Apple in 2000.
''In the U.S., the department store has a chance to regain its status as the leader in style, the leader in excitement,'' he said in an interview. ''It will be a period of true innovation for this company.''
Investors cheered the hire, with Penney shares rising 17 percent, to close at $35.37.
Yet the job ahead will be very different from Mr. Johnson's role at Apple, which already had a cult following when he joined it. And Apple's imprint got bigger and bigger with a its rat-a-tat hits, from the iPod to the iPhone to the iPad.
''Apple sells best-in-class product and faces basically little to no competition,'' said Michelle Clark, an analyst with Morgan Stanley. ''J. C. Penney, on the other hand, operates in an intensely competitive industry and sells merchandise that is undifferentiated versus peers and in fact has been lagging peers.''
J. C. Penney's sales in 2010 were $17.76 billion, up 1.2 percent from the prior year, but still more than 10 percent below 2007 sales.
J. C. Penney had first contacted Mr. Johnson three or four years ago, Mr. Ullman said.
This time, the wooing of Mr. Johnson started with two activist investors. In November, Pershing Square Capital Management and Vornado Realty Trust bought 26.4 percent of J. C. Penney stock. In January, William A. Ackman from Pershing and Steven Roth from Vornado joined the Penney board, and as part of that arrangement, got to appoint an additional director. While Mr. Johnson was intrigued by the possibility, he did not want to become just a board member, and asked for the chief executive position, according to people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly.
''Ron Johnson is the Steve Jobs of the retail industry,'' Mr. Ackman said in an interview.
Still, Penney seems to have limited Mr. Johnson's role. He will have the marketing, product and merchandising functions reporting to him. But all other major departments, including finance, stores, JCPenney.com, corporate communications and legal will continue to report to Mr. Ullman.
''His role is more like that of a chief merchant than it is of a C.E.O.,'' said Ms. Clark of Morgan Stanley.
To make up for Mr. Johnson's stock options at Apple, he will receive restricted Penney stock worth $50 million as of Monday's close. With the jump in stock price, it was worth more than $58 million by the close on Tuesday.
He is also investing $50 million of his own money in J. C. Penney by buying warrants on the company's stock. In 2017, the warrants will give him the right to buy more than seven million shares at $29.92 a share, meaning that if he can raise the stock price he stands to make a hefty profit.
Mr. Johnson's annual salary will be $1.5 million, and he will be eligible for a bonus of 125 percent of that amount if he meets certain targets. Still, ''this guy has become enormously wealthy on Apple stock options,'' said Charles Wolf, an analyst with Needham and Company. ''He certainly doesn't need the money.''
During his tenure at Apple, Mr. Johnson received total compensation valued at $141 million, according to Equilar, an executive compensation research firm. The analysis excludes the years 2008 and 2009, during which Mr. Johnson realized additional stock gains valued at more than $100 million, Equilar said.
Mr. Johnson did not specify what his plans were for Penney.
''I don't have a priority list,'' he said. ''I have so many ideas in my head that I can't quite sort them out, to tell you the truth.''
As for his experience, he said: ''Apple has taught me, really, what breakthrough innovation is and how to energize teams to accomplish that. I've seen that happen on the product side at Apple; we've done that in our stores. I think that's what I bring.''
While Mr. Ullman, who has been chief executive for seven years, has been praised for bringing in brands like Liz Claiborne, MNG by Mango and Sephora into Penney's stores, his tenure has been marked by the recession, when the company's middle-class shoppers cut way back on spending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ron Johnson said he hoped to create a period of ''true innovation'' for J. C. Penney. (B1)
 Ron Johnson during a media preview for a new Apple store in Chicago last year. Analysts say he will face a tougher task creating retail excitement at J. C. Penney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN KERSEY/GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (88%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); TABLET COMPUTERS (68%)

COMPANY: J C PENNEY CO INC (95%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); TARGET CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

TICKER: JCP (NYSE) (95%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); TGT (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: MYRON E ULLMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



562 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Obama in Old San Juan

BYLINE: By MARITZA STANCHICH. 
Maritza Stanchich is an associate professor of English at the Rio Piedras campus of the University of Puerto Rico.

 BODY:
San Juan, P.R.
A MONTH of steady rain has brightened the cobblestones of Old San Juan. Now they are as blue as the crabs hawked alongside the coastal roads of this Caribbean territory of the United States. Public employees must have been relieved that nature cooperated, after weeks spent sprucing up the city for Barack Obama's arrival here on Tuesday morning.
His visit aggravated the city's already grim traffic jams, called tapones, prompting some cynical reactions. A taxi driver named Reina Blanco waved her arm at the highway and told me: ''Once again I'm going to be hearing tourists say they'll never come back here because of the traffic.'' 
Nevertheless, most people consider the traffic a worthwhile inconvenience for the rare occasion of an official presidential visit, the first since John F. Kennedy came here 50 years ago. Welcome banners throughout the city picture the two presidents side by side with the words: ''We are proud to be part of history, Kennedy 1961, Obama 2011.''
But how much do we have to celebrate?
A referendum on the future of Puerto Rico -- independence, statehood or the status quo -- will be held sometime in the next year or so, and Puerto Ricans are divided.
Hundreds of pro-independence protesters rallied Tuesday morning at the Plaza de Colon, named for Christopher Columbus, and El Morro fortress. One sign portrayed George Washington and read: ''We too demand our independence.'' At the same time, our pro-statehood governor, Luis Fortuno, celebrated Flag Day at the Capitol under the stars and stripes. (Mr. Obama didn't attend.)
Earlier in the morning, with the streets closed off and quiet as a tomb, police officers at every corner, I spoke briefly to a slight woman who was passing through and was not a part of either extreme. ''I was born under the two flags,'' she said. ''I was born in 1935, and every day in school we saluted the two flags.''
The daily newspapers have been full of ads from all sides of the debate and a litany of grievances. Official unemployment is over 16 percent, nearly half the commonwealth lives in poverty, and the murder rate is at a record high. Police abuses and civil rights violations, particularly against students, have intensified under the Fortuno administration, according to the American Civil Liberties Union. The country's premier university, where I teach, had a quarter of its budget slashed this year. A controversial natural gas pipeline has been planned to nearly span the island from south to north. (The government calls it Via Verde; its opponents, Via de la Muerte.) And early this year, Puerto Rico's most famous political prisoner, Oscar Lopez Rivera, was denied parole after nearly 30 years of imprisonment in the United States.
But Mr. Obama may not know much about what the residents of this island -- who can't vote for him in a general election anyway -- care about. Banners along the expressway criticizing the government's policies were removed before he arrived. And he mingled mainly with the bigwigs who paid between $10,000 and $35,800 to attend a Democratic fund-raiser at the Caribe Hilton (though to his credit, he also met with an opposition leader).
In any case, his visit is mostly aimed at winning votes stateside -- where there are some 4.6 million Puerto Ricans, compared with 3.7 million on the island -- particularly in swing states like Florida that have large Puerto Rican communities.
At one of the many kiosks where vendors sold hand-crafted jewelry and bacalaitos, or cod fritters, I ran into a young man named Joel Casanova from Tampa, who said he had made the trip with his family expressly for Mr. Obama's visit. His parents had voted for him, but he wasn't sure if he would. (He was clear, however, about his support for the Miami Heat, which lost in the N.B.A. finals last weekend to the Dallas Mavericks and its Puerto Rican point guard, J. J. Barea.)
Even if the president's visit changes little about life in Puerto Rico, it may, at least, endear him more to those who live here. Millions sensed themselves a part of history in the symbolic power of President Obama's candidacy. I first remember feeling that during his speech in Selma, Ala., in March 2007, when he poignantly recalled his grandfather living under British colonial rule in Kenya.
I can't help but wonder what Mr. Obama's grandfather would have thought about the still-colonial status of the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam and Puerto Rico.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NEIL DONNELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US TERRITORIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); PAROLE (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (65%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); CRIME RATES (62%); POVERTY RATES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (60%); REFERENDUMS (52%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (50%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); LUIS G FORTUNO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



563 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P. Debate: For all the noise from the Republican field, there remains a vast silence on the real issues

 BODY:
Monday's Republican presidential debate in New Hampshire -- full of historical error, economic obfuscation, avoidance of hard truths and even outright bigotry -- was a feast for connoisseurs of political dysfunction. Desperate to avoid being outflanked on the right, the seven candidates tried so hard to outdo each other in finding fault with President Obama that they seemed to forget that they are competing for the same party nomination. By evening's end, they had melted into an indistinguishable mass of privatizing, tax-cutting opponents of Shariah law.
For the moment, the candidates are appealing to a Republican Party whose core is so contorted in fury at Mr. Obama that it barely resembles the one that nominated George W. Bush in 2000. Mr. Bush may have prosecuted the war on terror to excess, but he always reminded the country that it was not at war with Islam. This batch of Republicans has dispensed with such niceties. Herman Cain repeated his earlier statement that he would not be comfortable with a Muslim in his cabinet. Some, he explained, ''are trying to kill us.'' 
None of the other candidates took him to task for this. Mitt Romney, a Mormon who has himself been the subject of religious slurs, at least mentioned the nation's founding principle of religious tolerance and respect but missed an opportunity to include Muslims. Newt Gingrich tumbled over the historical cliff with the idea, announcing some kind of loyalty oath to serve in his administration, similar to that used in dealing with Nazis and Communists. At least no one brandished a list of known Muslims serving in Mr. Obama's State Department.
Eventually, the winner of the Republican nomination will move away from the Tea Party's anger to try to appeal to a broader electorate that has higher priorities than interfering with laws on same-sex marriage and upending Congress's decision to welcome openly gay and lesbian soldiers. That broader electorate, eager to hear the candidates' plans to resuscitate the economy, would be hard pressed to find a coherent pathway out of joblessness from the Republican field on Monday night.
Asked how he would start to put the 14 million jobless back to work, Rick Santorum said he would repeal health care reform and drill for oil. Tim Pawlenty was one of several making the tired-and-empty argument that more tax cutting would ''get the economy moving.'' Mr. Santorum actually vowed to let the ''wealth really trickle down.''
Michele Bachmann had the strangest, most simplistic economic solution of all: simply close down the Environmental Protection Agency, which she said ''should really be renamed the Job-Killing Organization of America.''
Mr. Romney, the presumed front-runner, provided almost no details of his economic plan, except to attack Mr. Obama for making the recession ''worse and longer.'' (He didn't mention that the recession ended in June 2009.) He said the government's bailout of General Motors and Chrysler was a waste of money and accused the administration of catering to the auto unions. He did not mention that it saved at least 1.4 million jobs and a vital American industry, which has already paid back half the cost.
The field was silent on so many things: how to cover those without health insurance, how to improve education while slashing budgets, which popular programs to cut after the onslaught of tax reductions. It is much easier, apparently, to impress Republican voters with the facile argument that President Obama has failed.
But, at some point, those voters are going to want these candidates to start making some distinctions among themselves, and that will require far more truth-telling than was evident on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (63%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (62%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); MARRIAGE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HERMAN CAIN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



564 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: In Visit to Puerto Rico, Obama Offers (and Seeks Out) Support

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
SAN JUAN, P.R. -- President Obama came to this United States commonwealth on Tuesday and promised to stand by Puerto Rico no matter what residents decide about its future -- statehood, independence or a continuation of the status quo.
In what White House officials billed as the first official visit of a sitting American president since John F. Kennedy, Air Force One landed just before noon and Mr. Obama bounded over to a crowd of about 1,000 people waiting for him at Luis Munoz Marin International Airport. 
Mr. Obama began his four-hour trip with a quick speech in which he rolled his R's, tried out a little Spanish (Puerto Ricans' willingness to serve in the armed forces is as American, he said, as ''arroz con gandules''), professed his love and admiration for all things Puerto Rican and promised to support ''a clear decision'' by the people of Puerto Rico on statehood, whatever it may be.
It was not, by any measure, a groundbreaking speech, but then, Mr. Obama's visit here is as much about wooing Hispanic voters in the swing state of Florida as it is about reassuring Puerto Ricans that the United States has not forgotten its island commonwealth in the Caribbean.
''The aspirations and the struggles on this island mirror those across America,'' Mr. Obama assured the people in the airport hangar, which included Marc Antony, the Latino crooner who is married to Jennifer Lopez.
Much was made of Kennedy's visit here in 1961 -- not least by Mr. Obama himself, who quipped that he was 4 months old at the time and so could not remember too many details. As a senator, Mr. Obama also visited Puerto Rico during the Democratic campaign in 2008, and promised to return as president.
The president's schedule included the speech at the hangar, a visit to La Fortaleza, the longest-serving governor's mansion in the Western Hemisphere (the White House says), a tour of the Kennedy Suite, where Kennedy stayed in 1961, and a concert by a youth orchestra. Mr. Obama also stopped unannounced for lunch at a local restaurant.
Perhaps more important were the interviews Mr. Obama scheduled with El Nuevo Dia newspaper and Univision of Puerto Rico, and a fund-raising event Tuesday afternoon meant to plump Democratic National Committee coffers.
Puerto Ricans hold American citizenship and can serve in the military, but the commonwealth has no voting representative in Congress. And while Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico can vote in presidential primaries, they cannot vote in presidential elections. Puerto Ricans in the United States can.
The President's Task Force on Puerto Rico's Status issued a report in March recommending that the island hold two more votes on the issue by the end of 2012.
While acknowledging Mr. Obama's campaign event here, his spokesman, Jay Carney, said the trip went beyond politics. ''The president is making the first official visit since 1961,'' Mr. Carney said, ''and he takes the issue of resolving the status as very important. Dealing with economic hardships on the island is very important.''
For the record, about that first-official-visit designation by the White House. President Gerald R. Ford came to Puerto Rico in 1976, but it was for a Group of Seven economic summit, so that apparently does not count as official, since it was not for official Puerto Rico business (although choosing Puerto Rico to host the G-7 undoubtedly brought a lot of dollars to the island). Ditto for President Lyndon B. Johnson -- he came in 1968, to visit a military base, so that trip was also not being considered official.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrons took pictures of President Obama and Alejandro Garcia Padilla, a Puerto Rican senator, at an unscheduled stop for lunch in San Juan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); AIRPORTS (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); FUNDRAISING (68%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); ALEJANDRO GARCIA PADILLA (58%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PUERTO RICO (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



565 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: CANDIDATES SHOW G.O.P. LESS UNITED ON GOALS OF WAR

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
DERRY, N.H. -- The hawkish consensus on national security that has dominated Republican foreign policy for the last decade is giving way to a more nuanced view, with some presidential candidates expressing a desire to withdraw from Afghanistan as quickly as possible and suggesting that the United States has overreached in Libya.
The shift, while incremental so far, appears to mark a separation from a post-Sept. 11 posture in which Republicans were largely united in supporting an aggressive use of American power around the world. A new debate over the costs and benefits of deploying the military reflects the length of the conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq, the difficulty of building functional governments and the financial burden at home in a time of extreme fiscal pressure.
The evolution also highlights a renewed streak of isolationism among Republicans, which has been influenced by the rise of the Tea Party movement and a growing sense that the United States can no longer afford to intervene in clashes everywhere. 
The killing of Osama bin Laden has intensified questions about the need for prolonged American involvement in fighting Al Qaeda.
The evolution of thinking inside the party is coming into view as Republicans begin sorting through their field of candidates to select a nominee to challenge President Obama, who faces a decision this summer about a troop withdrawal in Afghanistan. It could leave some of the party's presidential candidates at odds with its most influential voices on foreign policy, like Senator John McCain of Arizona, who continues to call for an aggressive military effort to stabilize Afghanistan.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., a former governor of Utah who just finished a two-year stint as ambassador to China in the Obama administration, said Tuesday that the cost of a continued military presence was a leading factor in his belief that a major troop drawdown should begin in Afghanistan.
Mr. Huntsman, who has said he would make his candidacy official next Tuesday, said a force of about 15,000 troops should be left behind for anti-terrorism efforts, but added: ''There's the desire on the part of most Americans to begin phasing out as quickly as possible.''
''This would mean that the very expensive boots on the ground may be something that is not critical for our national security needs,'' Mr. Huntsman said in a brief interview. ''Nor is it something we can afford at this point in our economic history. I think most Americans would say it's probably a good transition point.''
Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, said in the Republican presidential debate Monday night that it was ''time for us to bring our troops home as soon as we possibly can,'' consistent with the advice of commanders about their ability to hand off control of regions to Afghan security forces without risking a return of the Taliban.
''But I also think we've learned that our troops shouldn't go off and try and fight a war of independence for another nation,'' he said. ''Only the Afghanis can win Afghanistan's independence from the Taliban.''
On Tuesday, Mr. Romney sought to draw a distinction between his thinking and that of Mr. Huntsman and others who say the financial cost should be a big factor in the calculation.
''There will be some who argue it's too expensive now, we've got to bring the troops home right now, or others will say, politically we need to make one decision or another,'' Mr. Romney said here. ''You don't make a decision about our involvement in a conflict based on dollars and cents alone or certainly not with regards to politics.''
Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota, said that conditions on the ground and the advice of military commanders -- not the cost -- should guide decisions about Afghanistan troop levels.
''We have to remember why we invaded the country in the first place,'' Mr. Pawlenty said, adding that the security level was not yet sufficient for a full withdrawal. But he said, ''Our mission in Afghanistan is not to stay there forever or to stay there for 10 more years to rebuild their country.''
The array of Republican viewpoints, which have drawn new lines among neo-conservatives, Tea Party supporters, traditional hawks and other elements of the party, were on display during the first major presidential debate on Monday night, as the candidates started to mull the limits of American power at a time when some of the threats to the nation are less clear and its willingness to commit resources of all kinds is being looked at anew.
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, said the decision by Mr. Obama to involve the United States military in the effort to dislodge Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi from power in Libya was ''substantially flawed'' and did not meet the criteria of protecting the national interest.
''We were not attacked,'' Ms. Bachmann said. ''We were not threatened with attack.''
Newt Gingrich, a former House speaker, assailed American intelligence in the region, calling it ''so inadequate that we have no idea what percent of the Libyan rebels are in fact Al Qaeda.'' At the same time, Mr. Gingrich said ''the price tag's always a factor'' when deciding to engage in military action.
Four years ago, Representative Ron Paul of Texas was the only Republican presidential candidate raising concerns about the cost of the war and urging a drawdown in troops. His positions, embraced by libertarians, are still outside the mainstream of many Republicans, but he is no longer standing alone in his call for a new stance toward foreign policy.
Small but growing numbers of House Republicans have registered opposition to the war.
Republicans have also been challenging Mr. Obama's decision to employ the military in the Libya conflict without Congressional authorization. Speaker John A. Boehner on Tuesday demanded from the president a legal justification for the engagement and set a Friday deadline for a response, escalating the clash over whether the White House is in violation of the 1973 War Powers Act.
John Ullyot, a former Marine intelligence officer who served as a Republican spokesman on the Senate Armed Services Committee during the height of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, said Tuesday that the party's unified approach to foreign policy is steadily shifting.
''Republicans clearly sense fatigue among voters with our decade-long effort in Afghanistan, particularly after the killing of Bin Laden and the lack of a reliable partner,'' Mr. Ullyot said. ''There is no stampede yet, but more Republicans are willing to raise tougher questions when it comes to committing our forces and sustaining long-term and costly engagements.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney campaigning in Derry, N.H., on Tuesday. In the Republican presidential debate on Monday night, he said it was ''time for us to bring our troops home as soon as we possibly can.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); AL-QAEDA (72%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (78%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); IRAQ (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



566 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Board Announces 2 Contenders For Top Post

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
The long-shot bid by Stanley Fischer, the governor of the Bank of Israel, to become managing director of the International Monetary Fund appeared to be over after the international lender's executive board said late Monday that it would consider only two other candidates. 
The board said in a statement that it would consider the candidacies of Christine Lagarde, the finance minister of France who is seen as the front-runner, and Agustin G. Carstens, the governor of the Mexican central bank.
Without mentioning Mr. Fischer by name, the board statement suggested that he had missed the deadline for submitting his application. ''The period for submitting nominations for the position of the next managing director closed on Friday, June 10,'' the board said.
Mr. Fischer, a former deputy director of the I.M.F. and an influential economist, announced his candidacy on Saturday.
However, Mr. Fischer said that he had been eliminated because, at 67, he exceeded the age limit of 65 for candidates for managing director. He criticized the I.M.F. for refusing to change its rules.
The board's executive director, A. Shakour Shaalan, said in an email that although Mr. Fischer had met the deadline for submitting his application, he was over the age limit of 65.
''I have no regrets for having submitted my candidacy,'' Mr. Fischer said.
He said he would remain as governor of the Bank of Israel.
Mr. Fischer, a citizen of the United States and Israel, is a former vice chairman of Citigroup and is credited with stabilizing the Israeli currency and steering the country through the global financial crisis. However, he probably would have faced opposition from Arab countries.
The I.M.F. board's decision seems to clear the way for Ms. Lagarde to take the post, which became vacant after Dominique Strauss-Kahn resigned last month after he was charged with sexually assaulting a hotel maid in New York.
Ms. Lagarde has been on a worldwide tour of countries including Brazil, India and China in what appears to be a successful campaign to win support from developing nations.
Russia has also nominated Grigori A. Martchenko, Kazakhstan's central bank president. He also appeared to have been ruled out by the I.M.F. board.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about the narrowing of the race for managing director of the International Monetary Fund to candidates from France and Mexico referred imprecisely to the reason that the candidacy of Stanley Fischer, the governor of the Bank of Israel, was rejected by the I.M.F.'s governing board. It was because he was over the age limit of 65, according to the board's executive director, A. Shakour Shaalan, not because he missed the application deadline of June 10. (Mr. Fischer met the deadline, Mr. Shaalan said in an email after the article was published.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christine Lagarde of France is seen as the front-runner for the I.M.F. post against Agustin G. Carstens of Mexico. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (62%); SEX OFFENSES (62%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ISRAEL (93%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (89%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



567 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Apple's Hype Envelops Penney

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN and CHRISTOPHER HUGHES

 BODY:
Apple's reality distortion field has enveloped J. C. Penney. The department store chain poached Ron Johnson, the man behind Apple's stores, to be its eventual chief executive. The hiring helped lift J. C. Penney's market value by nearly a fifth, or $1.2 billion, before edging back a bit at the end of trading on Tuesday. It is true that Mr. Johnson also spent 15 years at the retailer Target, but Apple's halo looks too wide.
When Apple opened its first retail stores in Tysons Corner, Va., and Glendale, Calif., a decade ago, the concept was widely derided as folly. Almost no one could understand why consumers would be more inclined to buy computers and gadgets in an Apple store instead of in any number of other electronics shops. After all, places like Circuit City offered a wider selection of brands for comparison. 
But Mr. Johnson pulled it off -- and in style. Circuit City is long gone while Apple commands some of the highest sales per square foot of any retailer. Its more than 300 stores worldwide generated $10 billion in revenue in the last fiscal year and accounted for almost one in every eight dollars of Apple's operating income. And Mr. Johnson is no one-hit wonder, either. He was instrumental in one of the more unlikely retail transformations, turning Target from a dowdy Midwestern chain into a popular destination for chic suburbanites.
Still, investors may be expecting too much. A little Apple marketing goes a long way. New iPads and iPhones practically sell themselves. Wrangler jeans and American Living polo shirts don't. J. C. Penney also lacks Apple's rabid fan base and a commensurate product development team.
There's a simple measure of the exuberance. Mr. Johnson undoubtedly has contributed to Apple's powerhouse status. But Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, can claim a far larger role reinventing a nearly bankrupt company into one worth more than $300 billion. When Apple announced Mr. Jobs was going on indefinite medical leave in January, the share price fell 2 percent. However great Mr. Johnson's retailing prowess, his appointment probably doesn't justify a stock move at J. C. Penney of almost an order of magnitude larger.
Fickle Commodities
It's back to the classroom for Glencore investors. Just when they were getting their head around its moving parts, the commodity trader -- which went public in an initial offering last month -- has shown it can be unpredictable.
First-quarter earnings, unveiled on June 14, were flat compared with the last three months of 2010. Momentum stalled as a result of the disruption surrounding the Japanese earthquake, and Glencore says it had fewer opportunities to arbitrage commodity prices around the world. The effect was acutely visible in the year-on-year quarterly comparison, with operating profit from trading metals and minerals down 21 percent.
Investors who bought into Glencore on the basis that its commodity trading arm would thrive in all market conditions weren't totally misguided. Helped by energy, the overall trading business was still up year-on-year. And when Japan starts buying commodities again, that should show up in Glencore's numbers.
Earnings in the last two quarters have been running at their average for 2007, when Glencore made a record $5.2 billion for the year, including a sizable contribution from its 34 percent stake in the mining group Xstrata. Before the float in May, even the most bearish analysts thought Glencore could achieve the same result this year.
Though Glencore's stock dropped on Tuesday, investors still seem to think that's achievable. Annualized, the trading division's first-quarter earnings, assuming a 10 percent tax rate, stand at $2.4 billion. On a 12 times multiple -- a reasonable discount to Glencore's main listed counterpart -- that implies a $29 billion valuation. Annualized Ebitda in Glencore's mining operations, excluding the Xstrata contribution, is $3.5 billion, implying a $16 billion market value on a sector multiple of 4.5 times. Glencore's stakes in publicly traded groups are worth about $28 billion. Adjust for net debt and apply a 10 percent holding company discount, and that gets to around the current $58 billion market value.
But the first-quarter figures demonstrate Glencore's sensitivity to the macroeconomic backdrop. Recent weak economic data in the United States and evidence that China is responding to high commodity prices by running down inventories may be the next disappointments. A record year isn't guaranteed.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tin at a Glencore plant in Bolivia. Glencore's first-quarter earnings were flat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MERCADO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); SALES PER SQUARE FOOT (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); SMARTPHONES (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (74%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); TABLET COMPUTERS (69%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (68%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (97%); J C PENNEY CO INC (95%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (97%); JCP (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (97%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (97%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (97%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); VIRGINIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%); BOLIVIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011



568 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: I Ruined The Economy And All I Got Were These Lousy Tax Cuts

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: So much for hope and all that.

 BODY:
That's the title of a report by David Dayen. Key takeaway:
Republicans theorize that a deficit deal would increase confidence in the business sector and financial markets, spurring economic growth all by itself. But there's ample reason to suspect this "expanding by contracting" theory. Sadly, the Obama Administration appears to have swallowed it. Last week, several White House officials, including Director of the National Economic Council Gene Sperling, stressed deficit reduction as the primary component of their economic-growth strategy, and repeatedly claimed that reducing the deficit would generate "confidence." 
...
"I think it's bogus," said Mishel, of EPI. "And it reflects what happened in the Clinton era, when you elevate a tactic to the level of principle. They feel politically forced into shifting to deficit reduction. And they now rationalize this as good for jobs. And I think they all know better." 
Mike Konczal adds,
Someone noted that with Goolsbee leaving all of the big names surrounding economic policy are no longer economists but lawyers and people associated with Wall Street. And it is also telling that, with the Larry Summers editorial from the weekend, all of the economists you'd recognize who have left the administration are calling for more stimulus, while it is those there now calling for confidence.
It's worth noting, too, that it's not even good politics. Having made the "pivot" from jobs to deficits because they thought it was what voters wanted to see, they'll now get beat up over ... not focusing on jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



569 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: What Is Your Best Subject?

BYLINE: HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Which school subjects do you excel in, and why?

 BODY:
A nationwide test revealed that American students' weakest subject is history, and they performed best in economics. What subjects are you most proficient in? Why do you think that is the case? Are your favorite subjects also the ones in which do you best? Do you perform best in classes in which you have the best teachers? Or which coincide with your abilities?
As Sam Dillon reports, the results of the latest National Assessment of Educational Progress -- often called "the Nation's Report Card" -- has left many concerned over the state of education, including the historian Diane Ravitch, who called the history results "alarming." Mr. Dillon explored some of the reasons behind the poor showing in history:History advocates contend that students' poor showing on the tests underlines neglect shown the subject by federal and state policy makers, especially since the 2002 No Child Left Behind Act began requiring schools to raise scores in math and reading but in no other subject. The federal accountability law, the advocates say, has given schools and teachers an incentive to spend less time on history and other subjects.
"History is very much being shortchanged," said Linda K. Salvucci, a history professor in San Antonio who is chairwoman-elect of the National Council for History Education. Many teacher-education programs, she said, also contribute to the problem by encouraging aspiring teachers to seek certification in social studies, rather than in history. "They think they'll be more versatile, that they can teach civics, government, whatever," she said. "But they're not prepared to teach history."Students: Tell us about your best subject or subjects. In which ones do you most excel? Why? Is it due to your personal interest? Your own aptitude and ability? The teaching? The challenge? Other factors? How would you characterize your knowledge of subject matter in history and other areas?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
Independence Day: Developing Self-Directed Learning Projects
        
How Would You Do in a 'Free School'?
        
How Did Kindergarten Affect You?
        
I, Robo-Teacher
        
Fill-In | June Events in History

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (76%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%) achievement; Civics; History; learning; school; teaching; Student Opinion

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



570 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: One Size Fits One, Redux (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Careful about those Taylor rules.

 BODY:
The San Franciso Fed has a new letter (pdf) analyzing the dilemmas of eurozone monetary policy in terms of a Taylor rule. But it has a methodological problem that I think skews the results; doing it right would, I'd argue, look much less favorable for the ECB.
Here's the thing: the letter uses a Taylor rule based on the unemployment gap, not the output gap (which is what Taylor originally used). Either one is OK -- but if you're going to do Europe-US comparisons, you need to recognize that there are big differences in labor market institutions, so that comparable-depth recessions produce a much larger rise in unemployment in the US. It is not true, as the report says, that the European recovery has been notably faster than the US recovery -- in terms of output gaps, we're similar.
And if you're going to use unemployment gaps, I'd argue that you really don't want to use the same coefficients on the two sides of the Atlantic. 
So here's the thing: if you use the output gap Taylor rule that, for the US, corresponds to the unemployment version of the rule used in the SF Fed letter, it surely implies a negative interest rate. In short, the ECB has no business raising rates.
What is true, however, is that the rule might still point to a rate rise for Germany.
So the point is that while the ECB could suffer from a one-size-fits-all problem, the fact is that it isn't even doing that; it's tightening when only Germany even arguably needs it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



571 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: The Misunderstood Mortgage Interest Deduction

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: For every borrower who can deduct home-mortgage interest payments from taxable income there's a lender who reports interest income, an economist reminds us.

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago.
The home-mortgage interest deduction does not by itself significantly distort housing markets. Too much owner-occupied housing has been built because housing is excluded from sales and other taxes owed by businesses.
The housing boom and bust of the last decade, and government revenue shortfalls, have brought back the topic of whether the government excessively encourages home building. Those discussions invariably mention the elimination of the home-mortgage interest deduction.
This deduction allows taxpayers who own a home, have a mortgage and itemize deductions to reduce their personal income tax by including home-mortgage interest payments in their tax deductions. Homeowners rightly consider this when considering whether and how much to invest in a home and how much they should borrow.
A homeowner who pays, say, one-third of his taxable income in federal and state personal income taxes will recognize that a $3,000 monthly mortgage-interest payment really only costs $2,000, because the mortgage interest reduces his taxable income by $3,000 and thus the personal income tax owed by $1,000 a month. It's as if he paid $2,000 and the federal and state government treasuries paid the other $1,000.
At first glance, the home-mortgage interest deduction would seem to cause homeowners to borrow excessively for home ownership, and thereby deplete government treasuries. But that ignores the fact that one person's mortgage interest payment produces interest income for another person or a business. The lender may well owe taxes on the interest income.
More home-mortgage borrowing means more home-mortgage lending, and the latter means more interest income that can be taxed. In theory, home-mortgage borrowing could even add revenue to the Treasury if the lender is in a higher tax bracket than the borrower (or if the borrower is not itemizing her tax deductions).
Interest deductions are present in the business sector, too, and have the same essential properties as the home-mortgage interest deduction. A corporation that borrows to finance an investment project can deduct its interest payments from its taxable income, and that borrowing will generate interest income for whoever made the loan.
Landlords can also take out mortgages on their properties and deduct the interest payments from their taxable income (that benefit may, in turn, affect the rent they set). In that sense, the possibility of deducting mortgage-interest payments from income taxes does not by itself discourage renting rather owning.
In contrast, consumer durable goods do not enjoy the interest deductions that housing and business capital do. Someone who takes out a car loan to purchase an personal automobile cannot deduct the interest payments from her taxable income, even while the Internal Revenue Service may be collecting taxes on the interest income of the lender. In this regard, tax policy discourages investment in consumer durable goods relative to investment in housing and businesses.
This is not to say that housing investment has been efficient. Earlier this year I explained how housing is much less profitable than business capital before taxes, largely because of the host of taxes -- like sales taxesand income taxes on profits -- that are owed by owners of businesses but notby owners of homes.

        
Housing-Sector Profitability Returns to Previous Levels 
        
A Commercial Real Estate Crisis? Probably Not
        
Financial Lobbying and the Housing Crisis 
        
Who Cares About Inflation?
        
Why People Pay Income Taxes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INCOME TAX (95%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; home-mortgage deduction; housing; housing prices; Income Tax; mortgage-interest deduction; real estate; Federal Taxes (US); Housing and Real Estate; Mortgages; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Internal Revenue Service

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%) Internal Revenue Service

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



572 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: A Targeted Payroll-Tax Cut

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Michael Greenstone, an M.I.T. economist, argues for a payroll-tax cut that benefits only those businesses that add employees.

 BODY:
One of the most successful stimulus programs of the last few years has been the cash-for-clunkers program. In it, the government gave $3,500 to $4,500 to people who traded in an old car for a new one that got more miles to the gallon. If you didn't buy a car -- helping the economy in the process -- you didn't get the money.
In my column Wednesday morning, I argued for a similar approach for a new payroll-tax cut for businesses. Rather than giving a tax cut to all businesses, as the White House seems to be mulling (though the details are unclear), a targeted tax cut would reward only those business that added to their payroll. This approach does less to increase the deficit and yet could do more to promote hiring.
Michael Greenstone -- an M.I.T. economist who runs the Hamilton Project, a Washington research group, and a former Obama administration official -- wrote me an e-mail Wednesday morning making a more detailed argument for a targeted payroll-tax cut for businesses. It's worth reprinting:A better policy would be one that cuts payroll taxes for firms' employment expansions. For example, this could be a tax credit based on total payroll exceeding last year's payroll, some average over the last several years, or an even more complicated approach. And, one could add the condition that all hires by new firms would be eligible for the credit. Of course, there will be gaming but this will still be more efficient than the subsidization of existing employment as in an across-the-board cut (i.e., neither M.I.T. nor I should receive a credit for my continuing employment).
A targeted payroll tax cut could stop the structural unemployment rate from increasing. Specifically the longer the high levels of unemployment persist, the more likely it is that people will become permanently disconnected from the labor force, thereby raising our structural unemployment rate. At a time when we already must grapple with the high levels of debt and the long-run decline in real wages for many Americans, we should try to avoid adding to the list of our long run economic challenges....
At the same time, it is important to make a targeted payroll tax cut part of a broader package that includes deficit cuts that begin to take hold in a few years. Without this pairing, there is a real risk that financial markets will view a payroll tax cut only as a continuation of the "tomorrow" approach to dealing with the deficit.I prefer a simple approach: Businesses would not have to pay any payroll taxes on net new employees for a few years. The policy could be backdated to June 1, so companies would not wait to hire before Congress passes the bill.

        
Making Hiring Cheaper
        
Have German Wages Really Risen?
        
Labor Demand Gets Softer
        
Podcast: Job Woes, Pet Boom and Annuity Puzzle 
        
The Return of the Blue-Collar Downturn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR FORCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TRENDS (68%) Cash for Clunkers; jobs; Michael Greenstone; Payroll Tax; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Federal Taxes (US); Labor and Jobs; United States Economy

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



573 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Simon Johnson: The Big Banks Fight On

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Swaying regulators against tighter capital standards may not prove easy for the banking industry, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, the former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, is the co-author of "13 Bankers."
The bank lobbyists have a problem. Last week, they lost a major battle on Capitol Hill, when Congress was not persuaded to suspend implementation of the new cap on debit card fees. Despite the combined efforts of big and small banks, the proposal attracted only 54 votes of the 60 needed in the Senate. 
On debit cards, the retail lobby proved a surprisingly effective counterweight to the financial sector. On the next big issue -- capital standards -- the bankers have a different problem: this highly technical issue is more within the purview of regulators than legislators and is harder to develop a crusade about, as it's widely regarded as boring. 
As the bankers busily rallied their forces to fight on debit cards and spent a great deal of time lobbying on Capitol Hill, they were doused with a bucket of cold water by Daniel K. Tarullo, a governor of the Federal Reserve. 
In a speech on June 3, Mr. Tarullo implied capital requirements for systemically important financial institutions - a category specified in the sweeping overhaul of financial regulation last year - could be as high as 14 percent, or roughly double what is required for all banks under the Basel III agreement.Whether the Federal Reserve will go that far is not certain; a capital requirement of an additional 3 percent of equity (on top of Basel's 7 percent) may be more likely, but that is still 3 percent more than big banks were hoping for. (These percentages are relative to risk-weighted assets.)
The big banks are likely to mount four main arguments as they press their case against the additional capital requirements, Reuters has reported: 
 1. "Holding capital hostage" will hurt the struggling economy because it will mean fewer loans at a time when lending is already depressed.
 2. Establishing "huge" capital buffers is an admission by regulators that last year's Dodd-Frank financial overhaul does not accomplish its goal of reducing risk.
 3. If banks hold onto more capital and make fewer loans, borrowers will turn to the "shadow banking sector" - the so-called special purpose vehicles, for example -- which has little or no oversight.
 4. Tough standards in the United States would create a competitive disadvantage vis a vis other countries.
Each of the bankers' arguments is wrong in interesting and informative ways.
First, capital requirements do not hold anyone or anything hostage -- they merely require financial institutions to fund themselves more with equity relative to debt. Capital requirements are a restriction on the liability side of the balance sheet -- they have nothing to do with the asset side (in what you invest or to whom you lend). 
There is a great deal of confusion about this on Capitol Hill, and whenever bankers (or anyone else) talk about holding capital hostage, they reinforce this confusion. This is not about holding anything; it is about funding relatively less with debt and more with loss-absorbing equity. More equity means the banks can absorb more losses before they turn to the taxpayer for help. This is a good thing.
The idea that higher capital requirements will increase costs for banks or cause their balance sheets to shrink or otherwise contract credit is a hoax -- and one that has been thoroughly debunked by Anat Admati and her colleagues (as this now-standard reference, which everyone in the banking debate has read, shows us). 
Professor Admati is taken very seriously in top policy circles. (Let me note, too, that she is a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's Systemic Resolution Advisory Committee, an unpaid group of 18 experts that meets for the first time next week; I am also a member.)
In a recent public letter to the board of JPMorgan Chase, whose chief executive, Jamie Dimon, is an opponent of higher capital requirements, Professor Admati points out that these requirements would -- on top of all the social benefits -- be in the interests of his shareholders. The bankers cannot win this argument on its intellectual merits. 
The second argument, that establishing "huge" capital buffers is an admission by regulators that last year's Dodd-Frank financial overhaul does not accomplish its goal of reducing risk, is an attempt to rewrite history.
During the Dodd-Frank debates last year, the Treasury Department and leading voices on Capitol Hill -- including bank lobbyists -- said it would be a bad idea for Congress to legislate capital requirements and should leave them to be set by regulators after the Basel III negotiations were complete. 
Now the time has come to do so, and Mr. Tarullo is the relevant official -- he is in charge of this issue within the Federal Reserve and is one of the world's leading experts on capital requirements. 
But the banks now want to say that this is not his job as authorized by Dodd-Frank. This argument will impress only lawmakers looking for any excuse to help the big banks.
The third bankers' argument, that borrowers will turn to the "shadow banking sector," contains an important point -- but not what the bankers want you to focus on. 
The "shadow banking sector" -- special purpose vehicles, for example -- grew rapidly in large part because it was a popular way for very big banks to evade existing capital requirements before 2008, even though those standards were very low.
They created various kinds of off-balance-sheet entities financed with little equity and a great deal of debt, and they convinced rating agencies and regulators that these were safe structures. Many such funds collapsed in the face of losses on their housing-related assets, which turned out to be very risky -- and there was not enough equity to absorb losses.
It would be a disaster if this were to happen again. It is also highly unlikely that Mr. Tarullo and his colleagues will allow these shadows to develop without significant capital requirements. 
Sebastian Mallaby, who has carefully studied hedge funds and related entities, asserted correctly last week in The Financial Times that it would be straightforward to extend higher capital requirements to cover shadow banking.
The fourth bankers' argument, that higher equity requirements in the United States would create a competitive disadvantage vis a vis other countries, is like arguing in favor of the status quo in an industry that emits a great deal of pollution, a point made by Andrew Haldane of the Bank of England. 
If China, India or any other country wants to produce electricity using a technology that severely damages local health, why would the United States want to do the same? And if the financial pollution floats from others to the United States through cross-border connections, we should take steps to limit those connections.
The Basel III issues may be boring, but they are important. The incorrect, misleading and generally false arguments of bank lobbyists should be rejected by regulators and legislators alike.

        
The Banking Emperor Has No Clothes
        
When Regulators Side With the Industries They Regulate 
        
Big Banks Have a Powerful New Opponent
        
Dividends Lost
        
Battle of the Bank Policy Heavyweights

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); WRITERS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); DEBIT CARDS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (61%); GOVERNORS (58%) banking; banking regulation; Basel III; capital reserves; Daily Economist; Dodd-Frank; politics; Simon Johnson; systemic risk regulator; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Basel Committee on Banking Supervision

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%) Basel Committee on Banking Supervision

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011



574 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Dracula Lurks in Your Set-Top Box

BYLINE: JOANNA M. FOSTER


HIGHLIGHT: Set-top boxes in the United States consume nearly as much energy when not in use as when they are on, costing a cumulative $2 billion a year.

 BODY:
Imagine pulling into your parking space and just hopping out, leaving the car idling all day while you're at the office. 
As ludicrous as this may sound, most Americans are guilty of a similar if less costly squandering of energy when it comes to their cable or satellite TV boxes. A new study released on Tuesday by the Natural Resources Defense Council shows that set-top boxes in the United States consume nearly as much energy when not in use as when they are on, costing a cumulative $2 billion a year. 
Noah Horowitz, director of the Center for Energy Efficiency at the council, said that while most Americans have been guilted into unplugging their cellphone chargers when they're not attached to the phone itself, those energy savings pale by comparison with what would be recouped by unplugging set-top boxes. 
The problem is that the set-top boxes installed by Cablevision, Time Warner or Verizon when you sign up for service have no such thing as an on-off switch. Turning the power off on the remote may dim the display lights, but it makes no substantial difference in terms of the energy consumed. Unless you squeeze behind the TV to unplug everything after your show ends, the little black box will end up racking up an average two-thirds of its energy consumption when you're not using it. With 160 million such set-top boxes in use in the country today, the power wasted is equivalent to what is produced annually by six coal burning power plants and is responsible for the release of 11 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere each year. 
Meanwhile, with more and more Americans demanding to watch what they want, when they want, DVRs, which consume 40 percent more energy than a standard cable box, are becoming increasingly prevalent. 
Because the cable, satellite or phone company doesn't pay your energy bill, Mr. Horowitz said, it has little incentive to provide its customers with more energy-efficient boxes. In fact, some of the DVR devices provided by the companies could be set to a more energy-efficient mode, he said, but the TV service providers don't take the time to do so. 
The good news is that solutions already exist. Europe's Sky TV offers its customers a DVR box that uses 22.5 watts when fully on, 13.2 watts when in light sleep mode and less than one watt when in deep sleep mode, which you can set to coordinate with your own deep sleep mode. 
If you're not ready to pack up for Europe, though, Mr. Horowitz said, you can still pick up your phone and tell your TV service provider that you want modern devices on this side of the Atlantic.

        
Marijuana Growing Gobbles Electricity, Study Finds
        
Coal, Jobs and America's Energy Future
        
In New N.Y.U. Plant, a Collateral Carbon Benefit
        
An Energy Epiphany: Staying Home Is Cheap
        
On Our Radar: Nascar to Use Biofuel Blend

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (77%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CD & DVD DRIVES (76%); CONSUMPTION (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (63%); CANNABIS (50%) carbon-dioxide emissions; electricity; energy conservation; set-top boxes; television; Conservation of Resources; Energy Efficiency; Television Sets; Cablevision Systems Corporation; National Resources Defense Council; Time Warner Inc; Verizon Communications Inc; Cablevision Systems Corporation|CVC|NYSE; Time Warner Inc|TWX|NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc|VZ|NYSE; Business; Energy Economics; Living

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (91%) Cablevision Systems Corporation; National Resources Defense Council; Time Warner Inc; Verizon Communications Inc

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%) Cablevision Systems Corporation; CVC; NYSE; Cablevision Systems Corporation; CVC; NYSE; Time Warner Inc; TWX; NYSE; Cablevision Systems Corporation; CVC; NYSE; Time Warner Inc; TWX; NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc; VZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011



575 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Netflix Helps People Cut Cable Cord, Report Says

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: A new survey notes that customers who use Netflix streaming video are twice as likely to cancel or slim down their cable services as they were this time last year.

 BODY:
It has now been a couple of years since I cut my cable and began exclusively watching Internet video on my home television. I still feel that it was one of the wiser decisions I've made with technology, saving me hundreds of dollars a year and countless headaches dealing with a cable company.
But was this just a move to be expected of a techie? Some have speculated that cutting the cable cord is simply a fad. But a new report issued on Wednesday suggests that if it is a fad, it's one that's moving into the mainstream.
The report, the result of a survey of 2,000 United States adult broadband users, found that people who use Netflix to stream Internet video to their televisions are twice as likely to cancel, or slim down, their cable television options as they were a year ago.The report comes from the Diffusion Group, a Dallas-based media research firm.
When the Diffusion Group surveyed Netflix members in 2010, they found that 16 percent of customers were planning to downgrade or cancel their cable television service. During the same survey this year, the number of customers planning to make that change had doubled to 32 percent.
The report also found that although the majority of those surveyed cited economic reasons and "the need to save money" as a rationale for canceling cable, 34 percent said a growing use of online video was the culprit, "two-thirds of which cite Netflix in particular as the primary perpetrator," the report says.
Now, instead of having only the option to pay a cable company to deliver content, people have an array of choices and devices. Netflix clearly saw this trend coming, and over the past year has started offering its video content on mobile phones, tablets, computers, game consoles, or devices that hook up to a television, including Boxee and Apple TV. The company also began offering customers a streaming-only option late last year.

        
Netflix Comes to the iPhone and iPod Touch
        
Google Makes the iPhone YouTube App Obsolete
        
Amazon Video vs. Netflix: Which Will Prevail?
        
TV Stations Start Broadcasting to Mobile Gadgets
        
BT's Battle Against the BBC's Online Video

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET VIDEO (95%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); STREAMING MEDIA (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SMARTPHONES (85%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); TRENDS (75%); BROADBAND (74%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); CLOUD COMPUTING (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (67%) Internet Video; mobile video; netflix; over the top; streaming; video; DVD (Digital Versatile Disc); Netflix Inc; Netflix Inc|NFLX|NASDAQ; Advertising and E-Commerce; Cloud Computing; Company News; Internet; Music and Video; Online Marketing

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (91%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Netflix Inc

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%) Netflix Inc; NFLX; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (91%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



576 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1835 words

HEADLINE: Did Wells Fargo Answer Your Lending Questions?

BYLINE: ROBB MANDELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: Small-business lenders respond to questions from readers of You're the Boss.

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, in tandem with our conversation with two Wells Fargo small-business lending officers, Marc Bernstein and Doug Case, we invited You're The Boss readers to submit questions for the executives. Today, we present their responses.
We selected the questions from the comments posted by readers. We only forwarded clear questions specifically about small-business lending (and not questions about, say, deposits or complaints about customer service), and we edited them for clarity or space. In some cases, readers posted comments that suggested interesting questions, so we formulated those and sent them to the Wells Fargo executives as well. Their answers have also been edited for space.
Did they answer the questions to your satisfaction? Tell us what you think, using the comment form below.
Q. Reader 7themick is very pessimistic about economic recovery and small business: "The rush to lend to this segment may result in a relapse of portfolio quality, only this time there would be no TARP because the government is out of money." Does he have a point? If, as some economists are now predicting, we're heading into a double-dip recession, should that mean less lending, rather than more?
MR. BERNSTEIN: Yes, the economic recovery is slow, but we are lending, and more so than a year ago. We don't foresee any substantial changes to our current lending criteria even if the economy were to weaken in the near future. But lending could be reduced if, because of the weak environment, small-business owners become more cautious about borrowing to grow their business or to make other investments or if a slower economy reduces revenues and profits for some small businesses, which also reduces their ability to support additional borrowing.
Q. From Shylock: "Smaller businesses, especially those under $1 million in annual sales, are what most people I know consider 'small business.' What is Wells Fargo doing specifically for these smallest businesses? It seems pretty easy to show an increase in small business lending the larger you make the threshold for 'small.' Will you provide more detailed information on your lending to businesses under $5 million, under $1 million, and start-ups?" For more specificity, The Agenda suggests percentage changes and total loan dollars for 2009, 2010, and the first quarter of 2011 (compared to the same time last year).
MR. BERNSTEIN: We take great pride in our long history of being a leading lender to America's smallest businesses. Our industry leadership in small business is why the World Bank Group has invited Wells Fargo to work with banks in developing countries around the world. We've worked with banks in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and elsewhere to help bankers reach out and increase lending to the smallest businesses in their countries.
There are various reports that measure banks' lending volumes. The most relevant to your question about business size would be the federal government's Community Reinvestment Act data. C.R.A. uses the dollar amount of the loan to determine whether it is a small business loan. For eight consecutive years, Wells Fargo is America's No. 1 small-business lender for loans less than $100,000. In 2009 (the most recent C.R.A. data published by the government) we extended more than 630,000 loans with originations of $100,000 or less. The average loan size was about $30,000.
While we do provide many start-ups with credit cards, we do not generally lend larger sums to brand new businesses. Studies show that about half of new start-ups close in their first three years, and it's difficult to predict up front which businesses will succeed and which will fail. So we require a business to be a minimum of at least two years old before we'll consider providing a large line of credit or loan, although we do sometimes make exceptions for customers with a strong, long-standing consumer relationship with Wells Fargo.
Q. NathanielB writes that "my recent experiences with the Main Office Commercial Loan Vice President was fraught with delays, procrastinations, and an eventual response that the designated location was declared to be within a 'no loan' area and we had spent over three months negotiating this loan." Does Wells Fargo really have "no loan areas," and if so, what defines this territory? And if not - since I think no-loan areas are illegal - what do you suppose that banker might have said for this prospective borrower to construe the rejection as red-lining?
MR. BERNSTEIN: We're committed to doing what is right for our customers and upholding sound underwriting practices. Wells Fargo will only approve an application when we believe the borrower has the ability to repay the loan. We do not have "no loan areas."
Q. JRG, who seems to have experience in large-bank lending, writes about credit scoring: "Loan scoring is based on complex models that desire a certain return outcome based on assumed risk factors and loan pricing. Likely included in these models are other big picture factors such as industry and geography. A borrower can have good individual credit characteristics but if you are a general contractor in Las Vegas you could get declined for a new loan or asked to leave the bank only because the bank has too much contractor exposure in Las Vegas and want to bring that exposure down. This concept is called 'portfolio management' and is similar to managing concentration risk in an investment portfolio." 
In our conversation you acknowledged the role such big-picture factors play in credit scoring, but is our commenter right that they could knock someone with otherwise good credit out of the running for a loan? Does Wells Fargo use credit scoring not (or not just) for determining an individual borrower's likelihood of default but for managing the risk and return across the portfolio? Is there, in your view, a difference between the two? 
MR. BERNSTEIN: When considering an application for credit, we do take into account the challenges facing a given industry and the nature of the economy of a particular region. Continuing with the example in the question, contractors in Las Vegas were indeed having a very difficult time after the housing bubble collapsed - and, before granting a loan to a contractor in Las Vegas, we would want to have reason to believe that the business would be able to repay the loan to offset those very obvious risks. "Concentration risk" is a legitimate concern for lenders; however, Wells Fargo has a diversified portfolio of small-business loans in all 50 states and across hundreds of industries. In the 16 years I've managed our lending business for loans under $100,000, we've never once declined a small business loan application out of a concern that we have too many loans already in that area or that industry.
Q. Reader beaconps asks, "With all this performance data, does Wells Fargo counsel any of their small business customers? Many start businesses with a skill but that skill is not business finance." I'll add to that: What sort of counseling does Wells Fargo make available? Is it ever mandatory?
MR. CASE: Providing financial education and advice is at the center of our work at Wells Fargo. We know many business owners don't start with a strong understanding of business finance. Our bankers can help business owners understand cash flow and credit so the owners can focus on running their businesses. We recently launched a comprehensive resource center called the Business Insight Resource Center, offering a video library covering topics from taxes and retirement to cash flow and understanding credit. The site also houses hundreds of articles and several webcasts that address a wide range of topics related to running a business.
Q. Rick A recounts trying to get a $7,000 loan from Wachovia a few years ago to buy two computers for his business. "I am a sole proprietor, and in spite of having pumped several million dollars through my Wachovia checking account in the last 15 years, I was told to use my high-interest credit card." Despite your stated commitment to loans under $100,000, is there a minimum threshold for a loan necessary to justify your bankers' time and resources? Are standards for credit-worthiness lower, or higher, when it comes to small-dollar loans? 
MR. BERNSTEIN: I can't speak to the experience you had at Wachovia several years back but what I can say is that Wells Fargo welcomes the opportunity to help you with your financial service needs, including potentially credit. Since your business finances are private and confidential, we would welcome the opportunity to connect offline so we can see what we can do to help. There's no minimum size for us, and we do a lot of very small loans.
Q. Finally, a question from a You're The Boss colleague, Jay Goltz: "I would like you to do everyone a great service. How about a look behind the curtain? Most people do not know what a bank is looking for when they consider a loan, or they do know but they don't know the specifics. For instance, The "Five C's" of credit are pretty well known -- character, cash flow, collateral, capital, and conditions. What are the minimal requirements you are looking for? Let's say someone wants to borrow $100,000. The cash flow, collateral and capital are somewhat objective. That is the easier part. What about character? Does a previous bankruptcy count against them? Credit score? Doesn't go to their kid's baseball games? Married four times? What about conditions? From my experience, many people trying to borrow money are not even close to qualified, but they don't know it. If you answer these questions I believe that many people will have a better idea of where they stand. Perhaps they can work toward improving their situation, or at least stop wasting time. When you answer, can you please, just for a moment, pretend that there are no lawyers or P.R. people to answer to. I'm sure everyone will appreciate it."
MR. CASE: The Five C's help us develop a profile of the applicant. There is no specific weighting -- the focus is on your ability to repay the loan. If you have derogatories on your application, such as a 60-day payment delinquency, these may hurt your chances of obtaining credit. In this case, you'll want to work on cleaning up your credit report -- both business and personal. There's no magical formula for capital, but a substantial personal stake will help show that you'll do everything you can to make the business successful and repay the loan.
You could add a sixth "C" to this list: customer. If you have an existing relationship with us, it allows us to access more information on your character and ability to manage your financial situation. For example, establishing a deposit account with us can be an excellent way to show your cash flow firsthand.

        
Wells Fargo Bankers Will Take Your Questions
        
A.R.C. Loans Gone But Hardly Forgotten
        
Is the Small-Business Credit Crisis Over?
        
Is This the Way to Get Credit to Small Businesses?
        
The Real Reasons a Retailer Can't Get a Loan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (93%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (76%); RECESSION (73%); TRENDS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%) finance; lending; small-business lending; Wells Fargo; Banking and Financial Institutions; Customer Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Small Business; Start-ups; Wells Fargo & Co; Wells Fargo & Co|WFC|NYSE; The Agenda

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Wells Fargo & Co

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (94%) Wells Fargo & Co; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



577 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Strike Deadline Nears for Macy's Workers

BYLINE: ADRIANE QUINLAN


HIGHLIGHT: More than 4,000 workers at four Macy's stores, including the flagship store at 34th Street, could go on strike at midnight.

 BODY:
The lines outside Macy's flagship store on 34th Street in Manhattan often tend to consist of shoppers, or perhaps onlookers gawking at the Thanksgiving Day Parade floats.
But when Thursday begins, there could be an entirely different sort of line. More than 4,000 Macy's employees face the possibility of going on strike.
For the past five weeks, Macy's management and Local 1-S of the Retail, Wholesale, and Department Store Union have been trying to reach agreement on a new contract. The existing contract expires Wednesday at midnight. The major issues of contention were wages, health care benefits and the number and availability of full-time positions at the four stores governed by the contract (the 34th Street store, as well as ones in Queens, the Bronx and Westchester).
"Macy's is the leading department store in the United States and in New York, and what they do has an impact on the rest of the industry," said Stuart Applebaum, the union's president. "It's the largest store in the world. It's not like comparing it to a store in Podunk."
Under the contract proposed by Macy's, new employees would receive a 401(k) package rather than a defined-benefit pension plan; hours would be set by a new computerized system, which would dole out work assignments on a first-come-first-served basis, rather than recognize seniority or student or family schedules; and workers would pay more for health care.
Management has proposed a 35-cent hourly wage increase for current workers, and no change to the starting hourly wage of $7.50, which union negotiators have said does not constitute a living wage in New York.
Last week, the union's workers voted unanimously to authorize the executive board to declare a strike if a contract is not reached by the deadline. This is not the first time that Macy's workers have threatened to strike. In 1972, 8,000 employees from six stores went on strike for eight days. Sales were down, UPS workers refused to cross picket lines, and a butcher counter and two restaurants at the Herald Square store were darkened.
It was not immediately clear what effect a strike might have on Macy's. Outside the store on Tuesday, Gwen McEvilley, of Queens, said she would not cross a picket line, and a strike could mean she never comes back again. Leaving the store with a Father's Day gift, she said, "You have to think about where you put your dollar."
Mr. Applebaum mentioned various financial statistics indicating that Macy's had done well last year, citing positive store-for-store sales and a generous compensation package for its chief executive officer, Terry Lundgren, that was said to exceed $10 million.
But regardless of the company's performance, a weak economy diminishes workers' bargaining power, as they are less likely to find jobs elsewhere.
"We have workers who are homeless - they live in the back of their cars," said Joan Solomon, who has worked at Macy's for 19 years. "We have workers who live in the locker room. We have workers who live in the shelters. So, for a billion dollar company, that's all we are asking for: Take care of your workers."
Macy's hopes a strike will not hurt business. A company spokeswoman, Elina Kazan, wrote in an e-mail on Tuesday that in the event of a work stoppage Macy's had "contingency plans in place to keep our stores open and operational."
Jao Gocal, of Sydney, Australia, visiting New York for the first time, said she did not think Macy's could replace its employees so easily. At Macy's, Ms. Gocal bought what she could not find back home: Baby Phat jeans. An employee knew exactly where to find them: in a corner on the seventh floor.
"Tourists don't have time to wander around for hours," Ms. Gocal said. "Imagine me walking around floor after floor."
Ms. Solomon's son, Ahkeem Solomon, worked at the store for seven years and suffered from high blood pressure, but could not afford the company's health care plan. "He passed away," she said. "He was on his way to work. He was coming out of the subway."
Ms. Solomon has sat at the bargaining table fighting for affordable health care for five weeks. "We still have the hope that they would listen to us," she said. 
She also said she had no desire to work elsewhere: "Nothing is going to take my joy away from me when I step in that building in the beginning of the day."
In 1972, workers were asking for higher pensions, a 35-hour work week, and a $3-dollar-an-hour starting wage. Their protest secured optical and dental plans, pension rights for survivors and an hourly starting pay of $2.92 - a 42-cent increase. 
The raise Macy's is offering now is 35 cents.
"When I started at Macy's 19 years ago, I made six dollars and 75 cents," Ms. Solomon said. "Nineteen years after, you still want to pay workers seven-fifty? That's awful. Awful."

        
New Leader at Labor Council Had Earlier Quit in Protest
        
Triangle Fire: New Leaders Emerge
        
Triangle Fire: A Half-Hour of Horror
        
Remembering the Triangle Fire, 100 Years Later
        
Fire at Macy's

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STRIKES (92%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); LIVING WAGE (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (72%) Labor; Macys; strike; union; Bronx; Manhattan; Queens; The Bronx

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: RETAIL WHOLESALE & DEPARTMENT STORE UNION (57%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

PERSON: TERRY J LUNDGREN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



578 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Britain Backs Higher Capital Rules for Banks

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: Britain's government is supporting a proposal that would require banks to hold more capital and partly shield retail operations from investment banking.

 BODY:
LONDON - Britain's government is supporting a proposal that would require banks to hold more capital and partly shield retail operations from investment banking. George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, is expected to endorse the plan when he addresses several hundred bankers and other financial professionals at a speech in London on Wednesday evening, a government official said. The proposal, which would most likely increase operating costs for banks, was initially made in an interim report by the government-backed Independent Commission on Banking in April. Mr. Osborne's backing makes it more likely that the rules, which include a so-called ring-fencing of consumers' deposits from potential losses at investment banking operations, will be made law. If the country adopts the regulation, it would put Britain ahead of the United States in pushing through changes to separate more clearly the traditional deposit-taking services from the riskier but more lucrative trading operations. But questions remain about which parts of a bank's operations should be included in the ring fence, a rule intended to limit the need for future bank bailouts by taxpayers. For example, it is unclear whether wealth management or derivatives to hedge currency movements would be inside or outside the shielded operation. The banking commission is expected to present its final report to the government on Sept. 12. Since the interim report in April, British banks have lobbied to limit the parts of the bank that would be shielded from the rest of the business and would have to be financed separately. Stephen Hester, chief executive of Royal Bank of Scotland, which is majority-owned by the government, told a parliamentary committee last week that the proposed rules would actually have the opposite of the desired effect and increase risk in the banking system.
British "banks are focused on ensuring financial stability and supporting economic recovery," the British Bankers' Association said in a statement on Wednesday. "A significant part of this work is ensuring the right safeguards are in place for customers' deposits." Shares in Britain's biggest banks, including HSBC, Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland, fell on Wednesday in London.
Mr. Osborne is also expected to support the commission's proposal to require larger banks, like Barclays, to hold at least 10 percent of equity relative to their risk-weighted assets, more than the 7 percent detailed in the so-called Basel III agreement to overhaul international bank regulation.
But the commission also said that because investment banks operate globally, British banks should not be subject to different capital rules than those agreed to internationally. The commission was created to find ways to strengthen the British banking system and avoid large losses for taxpayers in any future financial crises. It also had a mandate to improve competition in the British retail banking sector, which became more concentrated over the last three years.

        
British Banks May Need New Bailout, Researchers Says
        
British Bank Panel Suggests Changes to Limit Risk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING LAW (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); CURRENCIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Barclays; Chancellor of the Exchequer; George Osborne; HSBC; Royal Bank of Scotland; Osborne, George; Banking and Financial Institutions; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (83%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (83%); RBS (LSE) (83%); RBS (AMS) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (91%); STEPHEN HESTER (50%) Osborne, George

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



579 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Five Things to Watch in the Republican Race

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Here's a quick guide from The Caucus of what to watch for in the coming days of the Republican race.

 BODY:
With the New Hampshire debate behind them, the Republican candidates for president begin the summer political season with several challenges facing them.
They must raise money, build their state-by-state organizations and develop more detailed policy positions as they begin to define the differences among them.
The lesser-known candidates, like Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, are eager to raise their national profiles, while the front-runner Mitt Romney, former governor of Massachusetts, is already looking to the fall election.
Meanwhile, President Obama's campaign operation has begun gearing up for what aides expect to be a long summer of defending the administration's record against attacks coming from the Republican candidates.
Here's a quick guide from The Caucus of what to watch for in the coming days.
1. Fund-raising. The next big test for the Republican presidential candidates is the fund-raising totals they are able to show early next month. The second-quarter of fund-raising ends on June 30, and all of the candidates will be spending the next two weeks furiously raising money.
Representatives Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and Ron Paul of Texas have an edge because money they have raised as current federal candidates can be transferred to a presidential campaign. Ms. Bachmann, one of the nation's most prodigious fund-raisers, could post big numbers by doing that.
But Mr. Romney is likely to lead the pack with a huge haul. One thing to watch will be whether Mr. Romney, a multimillionaire, contributes any of his own money during the quarter like he did during his 2008 presidential bid.
The fund-raising report could also be crucial for Mr. Pawlenty, who is positioning himself as the alternative to Mr. Romney in the race but is sure to have raised far less.
2. The Straw Poll. The summertime contest in Iowa is only 59 days away, and while some of the candidates (Mr. Romney) have said they will not participate, it remains a media-hyped event that will be treated as an early proving ground for the candidates.
Ms. Bachmann, whose debate performance suggested she might be able to broaden her appeal, is still a favorite in Iowa, where she is popular with Tea Party activists and religious conservatives. But Mr. Pawlenty has staked his campaign on winning the Iowa caucuses early next year and is likely to use the straw poll as a way to ramp up his operation in the state.
The straw poll does not have a long history of picking the eventual nominee. In 2007, Senator John McCain of Arizona skipped the event. But it does sometimes foreshadow candidates who are on the move. The second-place finish in 2007 by Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, was an early hint that he would do well in the caucus.
3. Waiting in the Wings. The summertime weeks will most likely determine the final lineup for the Republican presidential field. But the candidates already in the race are warily eying those waiting in the wings.
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, confirmed on Tuesday that he will jump into the race formally next week, using the backdrop of the Statue of Liberty to echo former President Ronald Reagan. (Mr. Reagan kicked off his general election campaign in the same New Jersey park that Mr. Huntsman will use to launch his primary bid.)
But other candidates are still possible, too. Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, says he is seriously considering a bid for the nomination. A speech in New York City on Tuesday night did not answer the question of whether he will run. But rivals expect he will make a decision soon so that he can begin raising money and organizing a campaign.
Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska, remains a wildcard. Her "One Nation" bus tour is scheduled to run through the summer, but she insists that -- so far -- she is not a candidate. And Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City, has kept rumors alive by talking with former advisers and making occasional trips to New Hampshire.
4. Organization. In 2007, Mr. Huckabee discovered that money and supporters are not all that matters. The flood of campaign donations that flowed in after he won the Iowa caucuses was hard to put to use without an extensive campaign operation in the primary states.
Mr. Pawlenty and Mr. Romney are taking that reality to heart. Both have sought to identify staff and volunteers in states like South Carolina, Nevada, Michigan and Florida, which hold primaries and caucuses soon after the kickoff states. Mr. Huntsman, who has not officially announced, has also been working to set up an organization.
One thing to watch will be how much the other candidates try to match them. One challenge for the lesser known candidates? It's hard to build an organization without the cash that is hard to come by in the early months of a presidential campaign.
5. Policy. There will be pressure throughout the summer for the Republican hopefuls to lay out their proposals for dealing with the economy, foreign policy, energy, jobs, housing, gas prices and other areas. But there is always a danger for presidential candidates in getting too specific when it comes to their ideas.
Mr. Pawlenty, for example, unveiled an economic plan this month but found it roundly criticized as relying on what many said were overly optimistic assumptions of economic growth. In the debate on Monday, Mr. Pawlenty defended his plan, saying the criticism was "hogwash" and reflected a "defeatist attitude."
One thing that could force candidates to offer their own policy prescriptions is the debate in Washington over the debt ceiling, which is likely to climax in July.

        
No Brawl for Republican Candidates Yet
        
Cheer Up, Republicans, the 2012 Field Isn't That Bad
        
For Republican Hopefuls, the Bush Primary Is Well Under Way
        
Democrats' New Tactic: Praising 2012 Republicans
        
Pawlenty Hopes 'I'm Sorry' Is Enough

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); FUNDRAISING (91%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%) 2012 election; barack obama; jon huntsman; Michele Bachmann; mitt romney; tim pawlenty; Bachmann, Michele M; Huckabee, Mike; Obama, Barack; Palin, Sarah; Paul, Ron; Pawlenty, Tim; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt; Iowa; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); TIM PAWLENTY (90%); MICHELE BACHMANN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RON PAUL (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (78%); RICK PERRY (73%); SARAH PALIN (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Bachmann, Michele M; Huckabee, Mike; Obama, Barack; Palin, Sarah; Paul, Ron; Pawlenty, Tim; Perry, Rick; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



580 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Huntsman Questions U.S. Role in Afghanistan and Libya

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Jon M. Huntsman Jr. joined a growing chorus of Republicans who are questioning American military involvement in Afghanistan and Libya.

 BODY:
Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah and ambassador to China, on Wednesday joined a growing chorus of Republicans who are questioning American military involvement in Afghanistan and Libya.
Mr. Huntsman, who is preparing to announce a presidential campaign next week, said in an interview with Esquire magazine that Afghanistan was a "tribal state" that would remain "incendiary" for years.
"Whether we like it or not, whenever we withdraw from Afghanistan, whether it's now or years from now, we'll have an incendiary situation," Mr. Huntsman said, according to excerpts of the interview released Wednesday. "Should we stay and play traffic cop? I don't think that serves our strategic interests." 
Mr. Huntsman also commented on the military intervention in Libya, saying that if he had been president he would not have followed the same course of action. The benefits of the military action are outweighed by the need for serious cuts in the military's budget, he said.
"We just can't afford it," he told the magazine.
Mr. Huntsman's comments are consistent with a shifting Republican view of the use of American military force. As noted by Jeff Zeleny of The New York Times on Wednesday, past Republican candidates for president have had a nearly unanimous hawkish view on the use of the military. But that consensus is weakening in the face of the long wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.
In a recent interview with the Times's Jim Rutenberg, Mr. Huntsman noted that the United States would "likely have 10,000 or 15,000 troops behind who are prepared to collect intelligence and fight an asymmetric war against terror." But he said that "the very expensive boots on the ground may be something that is not critical for our national security needs, nor is it something we can afford this point in our economic history."

        
The Caucus Click: Mitt Romney in Derry, N.H. 
        
No Brawl for Republican Candidates Yet
        
Bachmann Announces Presidential Candidacy
        
Fact Checking the Republican Debate 
        
Gingrich Attacks Obama in Return to Campaign Trail 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BUDGETS (67%); TERRORISM (63%) 2012 presidential campaign; foreign policy; Republicans; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Esquire; Afghanistan; Elections

ORGANIZATION: Esquire

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (93%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); CHINA (92%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011



581 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Faces on Film Add Humanity To the News

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
If there is one hard lesson we've learned since 9/11, it is the degree to which fear lurking just below the placid surface of everyday existence can poison the social climate. Fear of terrorism, fear of disease, fear of the Other, of the Unknown, is easy to instill and hard to dislodge. Instead of surrendering blindly to paranoia, one way of combating it is to confront the very things that scare us the most.
Attending the Human Rights Watch Film Festival, which returns to New York for its annual run, Thursday through June 30 at the Film Society of Lincoln Center's Walter Reade Theater, is as good a way as any I can think of to quiet those fears. It is one thing to read about the conflicts in the Middle East, Africa and Latin America and quite another to see the faces and hear the voices of people, who, to reiterate a cliche, are really just like us. 
As always in this festival, the horrors of the world -- including recent events like the unrest in Iran -- are explored in many of the films. But there are also heroes and people of courage and principle struggling against injustice, oppression and poverty. In the United States one of the most underappreciated forces for good, Harry Belafonte, is profiled in Susanne Rostock's documentary ''Sing Your Song,'' whose subject, now 84, is still a passionate, unbowed crusader for racial equality and social justice. Which is to say that the festival is not without its hopeful and inspiring stories of men and women who risk everything to stand up for what is right.
This year the festival will screen 19 movies from 12 countries, most of them having their New York premieres and most accompanied by the filmmakers, who will discuss their work with the audience. It should be said that these films, predominantly documentaries, are of reasonably high quality.
At least one film, the documentary ''Granito: How to Nail a Dictator,'' directed by Pamela Yates, Peter Kinoy and Paco de Onis, doesn't simply relate history; it is also part of history. In the early 1980s, for her documentary ''When the Mountains Tremble,'' Ms. Yates shot the only known footage of the Guatemalan Army carrying out mass killings of indigenous people. Twenty-five years later her footage was used as forensic evidence in a war crimes trial of the military dictatorship of Gen. Efrain Rios Montt. ''Granito'' includes damning, hitherto unseen excerpts from an interview with Mr. Rios Montt in addition to scenes in the mountains where Ms. Yates met with and filmed rebel guerrillas, some of whom were subsequently ''disappeared.''
The brave 12-year-old star of Oliver Schmitz's ''Life, Above All,'' a feature based on Allan Stratton's novel ''Chanda's Secrets,'' is in some ways the South African equivalent of Jennifer Lawrence's character in ''Winter's Bone.'' Chanda (Khomotso Manyaka) is the only person in her impoverished village to mention the taboo subject of AIDS, which afflicts her family and is spreading through the community. When her ailing mother is advised to leave town, Chanda tracks her down, brings her home and stands up to the wrath of frightened residents.
Tanaz Eshaghian's ''Love Crimes of Kabul'' undercuts any thought you might have had of Afghan women as mute, downtrodden victims meekly hiding under their burqas as they scuttle from home to market. Ms. Eshaghian visits Badam Bagh, an Afghan women's prison, where half the inmates are incarcerated for ''moral crimes,'' including premarital sex, which is forbidden under Islamic law. Far from cowering in guilt and shame, these inmates are a remarkably feisty and self-assertive group, and their candor is extraordinary.
Even more outspoken expressions of rage and self-determination run through Ali Samadi Ahadi's ''Green Wave,'' in which Twitter messages and blog entries by protesters in Iran's 2009 post-election uprising are animated, with the actual texts used as subtitles. The technique recalls ''Persepolis'' and ''Waltz With Bashir,'' although this is not a personal story but a collective one.
''Better This World,'' directed and written by Katie Galloway and Kelly Duane de la Vega, follows the paths of two protesters arrested during the 2008 Republican National Convention in St. Paul and is a direct reflection of post-9/11 paranoia. This documentary, which will be seen in September on the PBS series ''POV,'' focuses on Brad Crowder and David McKay, two young Texans arrested for carrying Molotov cocktails, who had fallen under the spell of Brandon Darby, a militant leftist. The subsequent revelation that Mr. Darby was an F.B.I. informant brings up the tricky issue of entrapment.
The festival's most emotionally incendiary documentary, Giulia Amati and Stephen Natanson's ''This Is My Land ... Hebron,'' is an examination of the largest Palestinian city in the West Bank; at its center lives a colony of 600 Israeli settlers, guarded by 2,000 Israeli soldiers. The city, whose economy is foundering, is a powder keg of hatred and violence. The film includes interviews with Israelis, Palestinians, journalists, human rights workers and activists on both sides.
More warm-hearted is Mikael Wistrom and Alberto Herskovits's ''Familia,'' an intimate portrait of a poor Peruvian family whose matriarch leaves behind her loved ones to go work as a maid in Spain. The documentary, which shifts between Spain and Peru, feels so real that the people under its microscope will seem as familiar as your next-door neighbors.
''Sing Your Song,'' the festival's official centerpiece, makes special note of Mr. Belafonte's involvement in the civil rights movement and his friendship with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. That involvement led to Mr. Belafonte's commitment to the antiapartheid movement in South Africa and his friendship with Nelson Mandela. This documentary, narrated by Mr. Belafonte, also traces his career as an entertainer and introduces his wives (former and current) and children, some of whom admit to suffering from various degrees of neglect due to his tireless activism. But Mr. Belafonte's commitment to social justice, which continues with his investigation into the incarceration of so many young black men in American prisons, sets a noble example.
Schedule and ticket information available from FilmLinc.com or (212) 875-5601.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ali Samadi Ahadi's ''Green Wave'' traces the recent unrest in Iran. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH FILM FESTIVAL)(C1)
Khomotso Manyaka as a South African girl in ''Life, Above All,'' by Oliver Schmitz. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREAMER JOINT VENTURE/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)
Harry Belafonte, right, with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in Susanne Rostock's documentary ''Sing Your Song.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HBO)
Pamela Yates, a director of the documentary ''Granito.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEWTON THOMAS SIGE/SKYLIGHT PICTURES)
 ''This Is My Land . . . Hebron,'' by Giulia Amati and Stephen Natanson, examines a flashpoint on the West Bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH FILM FESTIVAL)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); FILM (89%); WAR CRIMES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MOVIE FILMING (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (75%); GENOCIDE (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); ARMIES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); INTERVIEWS (62%); EVIDENCE (60%); MOUNTAINS (60%); FORENSICS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); GUATEMALA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



582 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2016 words

HEADLINE: Fit for Life's Challenges

BYLINE: By CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

 BODY:
ON a Tuesday night in April, Jillian Michaels, the fitness guru, sat down on a table at the Borders store in Columbus Circle and kicked off shiny beige Christian Louboutin pumps, revealing a blue pedicure. She was faced by a snaking line of hundreds, mostly women and teenage girls (but also a few potbellied men) clutching her sixth book, ''Unlimited: How to Build an Exceptional Life.'' Periodically, a giddy squeal would erupt from the crowd.
The devotees, some of whom waited four hours to get their copies signed, approached Ms. Michaels tentatively, as if she might give them the kind of dressing-down she's perfected as a confrontational trainer on NBC's ''Biggest Loser.''
A few did get a tongue-lashing. ''Do I smell cigarette smoke on you?'' Ms. Michaels asked Lori Gorman, a retail manager who had taken a bus in from Attleboro, Mass. 
''No,'' Ms. Gorman lied. Ms. Michaels narrowed her eyes. ''Yeah,'' Ms. Gorman, 47, admitted, skittish as a teenager.
''Quit!'' Ms. Michaels barked, also using an expletive, examples of which are littered throughout ''Unlimited.''
But more often, Ms. Michaels, in ripped jeans and a black boyfriend blazer over a blouse, was disarmingly chummy. She raised an arm to signal that fans could come in for a hug. Most did and lingered, whispering over her shoulder their tales of woe and transformation. Baby bump on display, Amy Lanzilotta, 31, from Astoria, Queens, told Ms. Michaels she plans to name her daughter Jillian because she was inspired by her ''emotional strength.''
Some making the pilgrimage, newly slender, were carrying Before-Jillian pictures in which they were unrecognizable. Cynthia Eyler, 40, who home-schools three of her four children in West Chester, Pa., used to tell them, ''Don't catch on fire, because Mom doesn't run!''
After tracking her calories and workouts at the weight-loss site jillianmichaels.com, after her first 5K race and after 93 pounds had been shed, Ms. Eyler showed her idol a photo of the old her. ''I want to thank you for changing my life,'' she said nervously.
Ms. Michaels's life is changing, too. Last month, in a move at least two years in the making, she left ''The Biggest Loser'' -- and her beloved comrade, Bob Harper -- to pursue her dream of becoming a household name in health and wellness instead of just ''America's toughest trainer.'' (There are only so many times one can utter the catchphrase ''Unless you faint, puke or die, keep walking!'') Of reported tension with producers of ''The Biggest Loser'' after she announced her departure via Twitter in December, Ms. Michaels said, ''It's like a boyfriend you break up with that feels scorned.''
It didn't take long for another network to make its move. This fall, Ms. Michaels will become the fifth host, and the only nonphysician, on the CBS-distributed, syndicated daytime show ''The Doctors.'' She will also be a special correspondent on ''Dr. Phil,'' where one assignment will be to help teenage runaways face their demons.
She is relishing the transition. ''Prime time is sizzle,'' not about education, she said, adding, ''In daytime, you can entertain, but you can get information across a broad platform that allows people to attain any goal, any dream.''
Jay McGraw, an executive producer of ''The Doctors,'' thinks of her role as that of a super consumer. ''She asks the questions that get the answers we all want,'' he said.
It's not out of the question that Ms. Michaels might someday have her own show, though the finance guru Suze Orman, a mentor and a friend, has advised her not to go down that road yet. ''Sometimes you think you're ready to climb Mount Everest because you ran a marathon,'' Ms. Orman said in a phone interview. But transforming ''Biggest Loser'' contestants is ''a very different skill than sitting there five days a week trying to touch people's souls.''
She added of Ms. Michaels: ''She's not as great as she thinks she is, but she absolutely will be.''
The groundwork for the star trainer's departure from ''The Biggest Loser'' was laid in part by her business partner Giancarlo Chersich, a former licensing agent who founded Empowered Media, a company to develop her brand, with her in 2008. During a hike up Runyon Canyon in Los Angeles, Mr. Chersich explained how the company came to be. First, he said, she had to agree to a few conditions, namely no sex tapes or D.W.I. charges. ''I don't like drama,'' he said.
Mr. Chersich -- or G, as Ms. Michaels calls him -- whose previous clients include Daisy Fuentes and Randy Jackson, saw in her an opportunity to build a one-name, down-to-earth wellness guru akin to what Oprah did for lifestyle or Martha did for home. ''You can give me a grain of sand and I can build a sand castle, that's what I do,'' he said.
The two -- he's cool-headed, she's impulsive, a trait she said she gets from her estranged father, a personal-injury lawyer -- have built a formidable fan base by emphasizing her softer, empathetic side. Ms. Michaels's free ''Losing It With Jillian'' newsletter unflaggingly prods her 2.2 million subscribers not to sell themselves short, and it gives them diet tips and summarizes medical studies. On Facebook, she'll scold her roughly 915,000 friends if she thinks they are disrespectful, as on May 9 after they criticized an old picture of a slender Rosie O'Donnell in a spiked revealing getup that Ms. Michaels had posted. They also scold her, as when she implored fans to ''grill instead of fry!'' on Memorial Day but failed to praise troops. (She apologized, and recently went on a U.S.O. tour in the Middle East.)
JILLIAN Inc. has had considerable success and some glaring failures. Ms. Michaels, 37, has written six books (four made the New York Times best-seller list); has a performance and lifestyle clothing line with K-Swiss (a second batch is due in October); and has a dozen workout DVDs, including ''30 Day Shred,'' the best-selling fitness DVD title of the last decade, according to Nielsen VideoScan.
In the last three years, NordicTrack has introduced at-home incline trainers (uphill-walking machines that start at $1,099) that can access nearly 600 workouts during which Ms. Michaels encourages lonely users.
''Jillian and the incline'' were the reasons ''we had a velocity of sales during a recession,'' said Colleen Logan, the vice president for marketing at ICON Health and Fitness, which makes NordicTrack.
However, in the rush to meet the deadline, ''The Master Your Metabolism Cookbook'' (Crown Archetype, 2010) by Ms. Michaels was published without pictures. And NBC's ''Losing It With Jillian'' dispatched her to ''reboot'' the lives of unhealthy families, but was not renewed after eight episodes. ''The show didn't work,'' she said. ''They were cutting it before you knew the ending because of the time frame.''
After so many seasons on ''The Biggest Loser'' emphasizing diet, unholy sweating and emotional work, Ms. Michaels lost credibility when she endorsed quick-fix dietary supplements to lose weight. At least four times last year, she was sued over supplements. One suit alleged that some of the products' ingredients, like Chinese rhubarb, were dangerous, and that she fraudulently conspired to hide it. She has refused to settle these suits, as advised by Dr. Phil, another mentor, who she said told her, ''This is a stick-up!'' and ''Fight every one of these and the line at the Jillian window is going to get shorter.'' (Three suits have been dismissed; one is continuing).
Undaunted, Ms. Michaels wants to market a line of healthy-but-tasty snacks and breakfast foods. To that end, on May 25, the Empowered Media team, including Ms. Michaels, Mr. Chersich and Raymond Cole, the chief operating officer, had dinner at the Soho House in West Hollywood, Calif., with Denis Ring, the chief executive of Bode International, who is a creator of the 365 Everyday Value line, which emphasizes natural and organic ingredients, for Whole Foods. ''You've got the chops to have your own brand,'' Mr. Ring told her.
Ms. Michaels, who has invested in PopChips and the So Delicious line, explained her goal. ''I can't ask Americans to eat chicken and broccoli all day,'' she said, dressed in jeans, a gray T-shirt and a plaid flat cap to hide her roots. ''It's un-American. I need to be able to give them American brands that won't kill them.'' By that, she meant convenient foods without hormones, chemicals or preservatives like butylated hydroxytoluene. Not diet food, she said, but real food made convenient, like frozen steel-cut oatmeal that's easily microwaveable.
Mr. Ring suggested it could also be done with protein-rich quinoa. ''Ohhhh, you can do it with quiiiiiinoa,'' Ms. Michaels said. ''That would be heaven!''
A former glutton for ''diet'' food who was an overweight teenager (she grew up in the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles mostly with her mother, a psychotherapist), she now adheres to the author Michael Pollan's creed, which she readily recited: ''Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants.'' Mention McDonald's in passing, and she might threaten that, if you eat there, she'll cut your heart open ''with a spoon'' to display the ensuing damage.
That said, there was a glint of mischief in her eye when she shared that Andrew Scher, an executive producer for ''The Doctors,'' sent a $300 tequila and Fat Witch brownies to her Manhattan hotel in May when her new gigs were announced.
What distinguishes Ms. Michaels from other TV trainers, perhaps, is her ability to bond with strangers. Mrs. Lanzilotta keeps her picture on her fridge to curb snacking. Ms. Michaels's no-excuses mentality also resonated with Cyndi Roberts, 31, of Plainville, Conn., encouraging her not only to lose 75 pounds, but also to become a yogi.
Ms. Michaels's outspokenness is indulged by her acolytes, because she seems to really care. ''If she was just a drill-sergeant yeller, she would get monotonous,'' Dr. Phil said. ''There's a genuine caring behind her. It matters to her that you do better.''
That Ms. Michaels is a petite, wisecracking pinup who does not demonize the obese doesn't hurt either. She writes in ''Unlimited'' that fat ''implies zero about your value as a person in this world.''
Asked whether it's odd to have strangers approach her and say she has changed their lives, she said, as if speaking to a fan: ''Up until two minutes ago I didn't know who you were and didn't care. It's important to take credit for your accomplishments.''
Sometimes, Ms. Michaels seems uniquely unaware of how such harsh words undercut her brand. Last year, she told Women's Health magazine, referring to pregnancy, ''I can't handle doing that to my body.'' This alarmed her main demographic, women 18 to 50, and spurred news outlets to say that she thinks pregnancy ruins bodies. Ms. Michaels later explained that she has health conditions that make it nearly impossible to become pregnant. In the coming year, she hopes to adopt a child from the Congo as a single parent. She has dated both men and women, but right now, said her publicist, Ashley Sandberg, ''She is not in a relationship that needs to be spoken about.''
However, Ms. Michaels is not always so reticent; she made a startling admission over beet salad at another meal at Soho House, after it was suggested that once she became a mother, she might wake up at 5 a.m. to follow one of her workouts. She admitted that she tried to do one of her DVDs once: ''I couldn't get through 15 minutes of it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 23, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Thursday about the fitness trainer Jillian Michaels referred imprecisely to the daytime television shows ''The Doctors,'' whose cast Ms. Michaels will join in the fall, and ''Dr. Phil,'' on which she will be a special correspondent. They are syndicated by CBS Television Distribution and can be seen on local affiliates of various major networks, not just those of CBS. The article also misspelled the Pennsylvania community of Cynthia Eyler, who used Ms. Michaels's weight-loss Web site as she lost 93 pounds. It is West Chester, not Westchester.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE REGIMEN: Jillian Michaels at a book signing event, where her fans came in all shapes and sizes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E1)
ALL AT ONCE: Clockwise from above left, Jillian Micheals on a U.S.O. tour in the Middle East
fans in line at Ms. Michaels's book signing in Manhattan
''The Doctors,'' a daytime TV show that Ms. Michaels is set to join. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE CLIFTON/U.S.O., LEFT
ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PRIME TIME: Ms. Michaels on ''Losing It With Jillian.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAE PATTON/NBC) (E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); RUNNING (78%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (69%); CHILDREN (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (59%)

TITLE: Biggest Loser, The (TV Program); Unlimited: How to Build an Exceptional Life (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011



583 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Easy Summer Looks With Prices to Match

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
JACQUELYN ORTIZ scours her favorite cheap-and-chic fashion outposts once or twice a week to stock up on a season's worth of flowing dresses, tank tops, sandals and tees. ''In the summertime I do a lot more shopping,'' said Ms. Ortiz, who works at an advertising agency in New York.
Yet she finds that she is spending less. She can afford to indulge in an occasional mini-splurge, since she rarely parts with more than $30 on a single clothing purchase, and even less on accessories: feathers for her hair, headbands or the $10 fedora that crowns her summer wardrobe. In keeping with the season's carefree spirit, she snaps up eye-catching pieces that she may wear the next day, then simply forget. 
''In the summer,'' she reasoned, ''you're in the office one minute, and on the jitney to the Hamptons the next. If you're feeling spontaneous, you might jump into a pool in your silly clothes. So you need to be buying something easy, adaptable -- and maybe disposable.''
A halting economy, steamy pavements and long hours at the office have done little to dampen her enthusiasm, or for that matter that of her peers. She typifies a breed of budget- and style-wise New Yorkers who haunt fashion chains like H & M and Mango to engage in a bit of ritual hunting and gathering.
Their frequent store visits and swift response to trends suggest that they have returned to the kind of recreational shopping that has been rare of late, but which, in its pre-recession heyday, was as popular a pastime as a jaunt to the beach. They shop because it's easy (fewer layers to impede their progress or obscure their bright new clothes) and, as some will tell you, just because they can.
Sure, apparel sales have slowed, at least outside the luxury sector. ''The fashion consumer is being more cautious than ever,'' said Howard Davidowitz, a retail consultant in New York. At a time, he said, when 80 percent of the population is still struggling to make ends meet, ''they really are watching their dollars.'' But even a lethargic recovery has done little to curb an acquisitive streak that is ingrained in the consumer psyche.
Trend-watchers point out that a succession of sun-drenched days only intensifies the impulse to buy, to cast off cool-weather layers for looks that are lighter, simpler and more vibrant. ''People shop and dress differently in the summer,'' said Catherine Moellering, the executive vice president of the Tobe Report, a trend forecasting firm. Summer, she added, ''is the sorbet of seasons -- the palate cleanser, if you will. Dressing is simpler, not as tricky. We all give ourselves a bit of a break.''
And conserve our energies, she might have added, for the challenge of chasing a deal.
''The availability of inexpensive, high-turnover, trend-driven fashion encourages people to shop more often,'' Mr. Davidowitz said, ''because they know that each time they're going to see something different, and that's what they're looking for.''
Catering to an appetite for novelty is a proliferation of wallet- and trend-friendly stores: standbys like J. Crew and Topshop, and a string of recent arrivals like AllSaints and Aritzia, a Canadian brand with an cavernous new outpost in lower Manhattan. Many offer temptations priced at well below $100, a retail sweet spot for aspiring frugalistas.
''Fashion chains like Zara and Forever 21 are very well positioned for the shopper who wants something new,'' said Candace Corlett, the president of WSL Strategic Retail, a consultancy in New York. They serve those consumers who are ''determined or simply not able to get back into the vicious cycle of credit and debt.''
Replenishing inventories daily or weekly with items inspired by the runways, such fashion chains draw people on the prowl for peasant blouses, street-grazing skirts, tunics and tribal prints, and the kinds of flat sandals meant to complement a raft of maxi-dresses. In summer, fabrics are lighter and less expensive in every segment of the marketplace, Ms. Moellering noted. ''That kind of levels out the playing field,'' she said, making it easier ''to browse the high street stores and pull off a high-end look.''
That's certainly no secret to Ashley Basius, who shops ''at least twice a week,'' she said. ''I buy more in summer because I'm outdoors more and I can show off what I'm wearing.'' Ms. Basius, a fashion intern in New York, collects pieces like the yellow J. Crew sundress she wore in Midtown last week, bought for $90, and which she wore with $40 taupe-tone sandals she found at T. J. Maxx. ''Dresses are cheaper, and they're practical,'' she said. ''They give you an entire outfit that you can accessorize.''
Or outfits, as the case may be.
''In the summer there's a lot more to choose from, so I buy more things,'' said Lindsey Ibarra, managing editor at BurdaStyle, a magazine for sewing enthusiasts. Like many of her contemporaries, she buys inexpensive things to mix with a handful of luxury purchases. ''It's more interesting when you pick and choose from different sources at different price points,'' she said. ''It's more creative than just going to a department store and buying a runway look right off the mannequin.
''Besides, you never know when you'll find a diamond in the rough, a piece that you spend $20 or $30 on and end up wearing for years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SPORTY: At left, orange shirt, $98, from Broadway & Broome at Madewell, paired with white trousers by J. Crew, also $98. Necklace, from Mango, $29.90.
COORDINATED: Above, tunic dress from Mango, $79.90, with bag from H & M, $24.95, and harmonica necklace from Forever 21, $2.80. Sandals by Mossimo at Target, $29.99
PLAYFUL: An all-in-one, left, by +J at Uniqlo, $79.90
with belts from Merona at Target, $12.99 each
and doctor's bag from Topshop, $100.
RELAXED: Above, Maxi dress from Mossimo at Target, $24.99
with scarf, Ecote at Urban Outfitters, $29. Gladiator sandals from the Gap, $44.95.
ON THE COVER: Dress, at Topshop, $100
under a blazer from H & M, $49.95
with sandals by Miss Trish for Target, $24.99 at Target.
EASY: Floral jacket at H & M, $49.95
skirt at Zara, $49.90
dresses at Zara, in pink, $89.90, and orange, $99.90
and tank dress by Mossimo at Target, $24.99.
 ACCESSORIZE: Pastel sunglasses from Mango, $34.90, with scarf from Topshop, $14. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



584 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Drug Is Harder to Abuse, but Users Persevere

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH and KATIE ZEZIMA

 BODY:
BROCKTON, Mass. -- Michael Capece had been snorting OxyContin for five years when a new version of the drug, intended to deter such abuse, hit the market last summer. The reformulated pills are harder to crush, turning instead into a gummy substance that cannot be easily snorted, injected or chewed.
Instructed by his dealer, Mr. Capece, 21, tried microwaving one of the new pills, then sniffing up the burnt remains. Other addicts have tried to defeat the new formula by freezing, baking or soaking the pills in solvents ranging from soda to acetone. Many are ending up frustrated.
''It's too much work,'' said Mr. Capece who entered a rehab program here last month. ''It wasn't anything I enjoyed.'' 
A powerful narcotic meant for cancer patients and others with searing pain, OxyContin is designed to slowly release its active ingredient, oxycodone, over 12 hours. But after it was introduced in 1996, drug abusers quickly discovered that chewing an OxyContin tablet -- or crushing one and snorting the powder, or injecting it with a needle -- produced an instant high as powerful as heroin. It has been blamed for waves of addiction that have ravaged certain regions of the country, and has been a factor in many overdose deaths.
Purdue Pharma, the maker of OxyContin, may have succeeded for now in reducing illicit demand for its reformulated drug. But in several dozen interviews over the last few months, drug abuse experts, law enforcement officials and addicts said the reformulation had only driven up interest for other narcotics.
Demand appears especially high for pure oxycodone pills that come in a 30-milligram dose, often called ''Perc 30s'' or ''Roxies'' on the street. Opana, a time-release painkiller similar to OxyContin that has been on the market for five years, is showing up increasingly in police reports and has been blamed for a rash of overdose deaths. And heroin use has jumped sharply in many regions, according to rehab centers and the police.
''It's just a matter of switching,'' said John Burke, commander of the drug task force in Warren County, Ohio, and president of the National Association of Drug Diversion Investigators. ''If I'm an addict, I'm going to find a drug that works.''
Mr. Burke said abuse of other oxycodone drugs was already growing before OxyContin was reformulated last August, partly because the other drugs are cheaper and because OxyContin had become harder to find on the street. Many doctors had stopped prescribing it because of its stigma and switched to other oxycodone drugs, Mr. Burke said.
Raymond V. Tamasi, president and chief executive of Gosnold on Cape Cod, a treatment center, said he had noticed that addicts switch initially to the Perc 30s.
''But eventually people make that progression from the pills to what appears to be a more economical high, which is heroin,'' Mr. Tamasi said.
Prices vary, but 30-milligram oxycodone tablets generally sell on the street for $20 to $30 each, according to addicts and law enforcement officials. The old OxyContin sold for as much as $80 per 80-milligram pill. Several recovering addicts in Massachusetts said an 80-milligram tablet of the reformulated version, called OxyContin OP, costs about $40.
''You don't make any money selling the OPs,'' said James Moore, 28, who said he stopped selling and snorting OxyContin and moved on to heroin after the new version came out last year.
Mr. Moore, who said he used to snort as many as 10 OxyContin pills daily, was arrested in November for selling heroin and now lives at a halfway house in East Boston. Addicts can still get high from swallowing the new OxyContin pills, he said, but most prefer the immediate rush delivered by snorting or injecting the powder.
Outside of OxyContin, which comes in doses as high as 80 milligrams, the 30-milligram dose is the highest available for oxycodone, which is why addicts covet it.
Some addicts are reporting an even more powerful high from Opana, a time-release opiate painkiller whose active ingredient is oxymorphone. In Louisville, Ky., there have been at least 14 deaths this year involving Opana, according to the Jefferson County coroner's office.
Purdue Pharma should have reformulated OxyContin sooner, said Steven Tolman, a state senator in Massachusetts who led a commission that investigated OxyContin abuse. The company asked the Food and Drug Administration to approve the new version for sale in November 2007; it won the approval in April 2010. It is the first painkiller reformulated to deter abuse, according to the F.D.A., which is now studying several proposed reformulations of other opiate drugs.
''It should not clear their conscience,'' Mr. Tolman said of the change. ''These people are scientists. Why didn't they do this years ago?''
Not everyone is convinced that the days of abusing OxyContin are over. The F.D.A. is requiring Purdue Pharma to conduct clinical trials before it can claim that the new version is less abuse-prone. Though many addicts appear frustrated by the reformulation, Dr. Mark Publicker, an addiction medicine specialist at Mercy Recovery Center in Westbrook, Me., said he was ''absolutely certain'' that people would figure out how to abuse the new OxyContin.
''I like to think of them as drug addict scientists in white lab coats,'' he said, pointing to Web sites where drug abusers debate various ways of trying to defeat the new formulation.
Libby Holman, a Purdue Pharma spokeswoman, said that based on initial data and reports, the company is ''cautiously optimistic'' that the reformulation will eventually prove less susceptible to abuse. But long-term studies will be necessary, she said in an e-mail, adding, ''It is still too early to make any conclusions about the product's impact on abuse and misuse in real-world settings.''
The company has initiated eight epidemiological studies and will report updates to the F.D.A., which approved their design, Ms. Holman said. Meanwhile, the new OxyContin pills have won some unflattering nicknames, said Dr. Ronald Bugaoan, director of psychiatric services at the High Point Treatment Center in Brockton.
''They call them gummies because when you chew them up they get stuck between your teeth,'' he said. ''They call them jellynoses because when you try to snort it up they get stuck. They cake in the nose.''
Mr. Moore, the recovering addict in East Boston, said that it was possible to snort the new OxyContin but that it took about an hour to break it down.
''It's like doing a science project,'' he said, ''sitting there with a scraper, a knife, a razor blade, like it's a frog or something.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Moore, 28, of Revere, Mass., at a treatment center in East Boston. He said he started using heroin when OxyContin changed its formula. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A blow with a hammer deforms, but won't crush, the new OxyContin, far left. The original formula, near left, could be turned into powder easily. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANESTHETICS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); HEROIN (78%); CANCER (73%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



585 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: May Consumer Inflation Rose at a Slower Rate

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Consumer prices crept up last month at the slowest pace so far this year, tempered by a decline in energy prices, according to government figures released on Wednesday, while a regional report for New York suggested a decline in manufacturing activity and optimism.
Taken together, the reports reflect the impact of some of the global events that took place in recent months. 
''Both of them are reflective of the slowdown in the economy that we have experienced over the last few months,'' said Russell Price, a senior economist with Ameriprise Financial.
The Labor Department said in its monthly report that the Consumer Price Index, the most widely used gauge of inflation, was up 0.2 percent in May, compared with 0.4 percent in April, and up 3.6 percent from a year ago before seasonal adjustment.
The monthly rise in the C.P.I. was the lowest since November, when the index was up 0.1 percent, the department's Bureau of Labor Statistics said.
Analysts had forecast smaller increases: a monthly rise of 0.1 percent in May and a 3.4 percent rise for the 12-month period.
The overall C.P.I. reflected rising food prices, with the food index up 0.4 percent, the same as the previous month. The energy index fell by 1 percent in May, including a 2.0 percent decrease in the gasoline component, making it the first time gasoline has declined since June 2010.
Paul Ballew, a former Federal Reserve economist and now the chief economist at Nationwide, said the C.P.I. data was ''not great news'' but also ''not devastating.'' While there are no job or income gains to result from such a modest rise, there is still enough inflation to affect consumers' pocketbooks, and businesses are faced with costs pressures but no revenue increases, he noted.
''It is not that inflation is roaring ahead, but there are enough price pressures to put a squeeze on consumers and businesses,'' he said.
When the traditionally volatile prices for energy and food are stripped out, the core C.P.I. in May recorded its largest increase since July 2008. It was up 0.3 percent in May, compared with 0.2 percent in April, and reached 1.5 percent in the 12-month period, the department said. The monthly indexes for May were above analysts' forecasts of 0.2 percent and 1.4 percent for the year.
Prices for clothes, shelter and new vehicles contributed to the price acceleration last month, the department said, while there were declines in airline fares, tobacco and personal care items.
In another report released on Wednesday, manufacturers in the New York region reflected less optimism about business conditions. The Empire State Manufacturing Survey, released by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, indicated that conditions for manufacturers deteriorated in June, as measured by the survey's general business conditions index, which fell 20 points to minus 7.8 points, dipping below zero for the first time since November 2010.
Mr. Ballew, the former Fed economist, said that the C.P.I. and Fed reports add up to a ''flat spot'' as the economy recovers.
''We have a fragile economy,'' he said. ''It is a reflection that we have a long way to go to correct the imbalances that we are all dealing with.''
Analysts had expected a decline in the Empire State index but forecast that it would remain above zero, at 14 points.
In addition, the survey's future general business index fell compared with its level in May, suggesting that optimism about the next six months has deteriorated. It was down 30 points, to 22.5, its lowest level since early 2009, the survey said.
The new-orders and shipments indexes posted steep declines and fell below zero, the report said. The indexes for number of employees, prices paid and prices received were also lower.
Mr. Price noted that automobile production in the United States declined in April after the March earthquake and tsunami in Japan, contributing to a moderation in business activity. Demand has softened because of the recent spike in gasoline prices.
A third report from the Federal Reserve showed that industrial production rose 0.1 percent in May, after no growth in April because of the Mississippi River flooding and the effects on business related to Japan, analysts said. The report showed a 0.4 percent increase in manufacturing production in May that was mostly offset by a 3.3 percent decline in electric utility production.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
 U.S. and major metropolitan areas (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); AIR FARES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



586 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Untold Stories of How Everyone Got Here

 BODY:
Border-guarding Minutemen and immigrant-pummeling politicians should get a grip on this country's history at the Ellis Island Immigration Museum in New York Harbor. Exhibits are planned to tell the full story of the teeming masses, including African slaves, displaced Indians, modern globetrotters and Know-Nothing nativists. 
''There's an old saying among immigrant groups: America beckons, but Americans repel,'' said Alan Kraut, chairman of the museum's history committee. He promised that the updating will be candid and inspiring as it presents so much that's been overlooked in the continuous restocking of America.
Ellis Island operated from 1892 to 1954, and an estimated 40 percent of today's Americans are descended from foreigners who passed through its halls. Until now, its museum has mainly told the stories of European immigrant groups. The new Peopling of America Center is scheduled to open this fall with the mission to be the one place in the nation where all immigrants can go to search their story roots.
Scholars and exhibit designers have spent three years vetting American history for the missing tales. The new displays will show the smallest villages and largest cities changing with immigration but also the larger economic and political pressures driving the myriad decisions to move on. The nation's zigzagging immigration laws, the virulent anti-immigrant prejudices and newcomers' resilience will all be depicted through family histories.
Ideally, the museum will blur the narrative ''they'' -- the immigrants -- with the ''we'' who visit, as in Mr. Kraut's bracing summary: ''Without their talent and muscle, where would we be?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); HISTORY (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); FAMILY (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



587 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Still Writing, Regulators Delay Rules

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Edward Wyatt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Regulators overseeing financial reform are delaying many of the planned changes in the $600 trillion market for complex securities known as derivatives because they are running drastically behind schedule in writing their new rules.
The Securities and Exchange Commission said on Wednesday that market participants would not have to comply with many aspects of derivatives reform scheduled to take effect in mid-July. It declined to specify how long the delay would be in the equity derivatives it oversees.
The announcement follows a similar statement on Tuesday from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, although that agency imposed a year-end deadline for many of the changes in the derivatives it oversees. 
The idea of changing the deadline had been divisive at the commodities commission. The two Republicans on the five-commissioner board had wanted to create an extension without a deadline. The Democrats, however, wanted a specific date to keep some pressure on the group to complete the rule writing, according to three participants in the meeting.
The commissioners ultimately agreed unanimously on the extension, but the dispute illustrates the political divide that has been brewing in Washington for months as regulators work to roll out hundreds of rules required by the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation of last summer.
Though the Dodd-Frank measure was passed with bipartisan support, it has come under fierce criticism from many Republicans as well as some Democrats with financial constituents, who have urged regulators to slow the rule writing. Republicans are also trying to shave financing from agencies like the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which now have a larger workload in writing and enforcing scores of new rules.
Gary Gensler, the Democratic chairman of the trading commission, testified in Congress on Wednesday about the agency's limited resources. In an interview, he pointed out that the derivatives market is seven times the size of the futures market, which his agency has long overseen.
''This agency has been asked to take on a very expanded mission,'' he said. The decision this week to push back the derivatives deadline, he added, ''was not about delay. It was just giving the market the certainty while we're completing the rules.''
Regulators have missed more than two dozen deadlines for new Dodd-Frank rules, which cover a swath of topics, be it consumer protections in mortgage lending, bank responsibilities for dealing with city governments, or future resolution powers for troubled financial institutions. The legislation was the government's main response to the financial crisis, and it is supposed to rein in Wall Street and reduce the kind of risk that led to the market implosion three years ago.
Observers say that the two delays this week make sense: with regulators so behind schedule, putting some of the rules into effect could be problematic. Still, regulatory experts warned that delays could be dangerous.
''Sounds like common sense to me,'' said James J. Angel, a professor at the McDonough School of Business at Georgetown. ''The regulators have this tsunami of work dumped on them, and it's important to get it right.''
Still, he said, it is unclear whether the banks calling for a slowdown have legitimate concerns.
''You don't know whether they're just whining because they're trying to get a few more pennies or if this is really Armageddon to them,'' he said.
At hearings, bank officials have urged regulators to move slowly, saying that the rules will be better if created with greater care and consideration. The industry also has warned against what its officials call the ''big bang'' approach, under which many rules would take effect at once.
One difficulty is that many rules are related, and some rules drive others. Nowhere is this more true than in the derivatives market, where financial insurance contracts are written to protect against many different risks.
For instance, the rules to impose position limits in some commodities derivatives, like oil contracts, may depend in part on how much money financial players hold in different investments. But the commodities commission has been unable to demand all the data on these holdings -- and the banks have not been volunteering -- until it has written certain other rules and passed the one-year mark on the law.
The law specified that some derivatives rules would go into effect next month, no matter the status of rule writing, and those are what both financial commissions voted to delay this week.
At the commodities commission, Democrats and Republicans agreed that the July deadline for many rules was untenable because its staffers had not even finished defining terms like ''swaps dealer'' -- an entity that buys and sells a type of derivative.
Jill Sommers, one of the Republican commissioners at the commodities regulator, said in an interview that she absolutely wants the rules to go into effect. But the commission needs to take its time, she said. ''We didn't want a date,'' Ms. Sommers said. ''We're trying to makes sure we don't miss anything. I think we need to be very deliberate.''
One of her opponents in the meeting was Bart Chilton, a Democrat. He said in an e-mail on Wednesday that he worried that having no deadline would take away much needed urgency. ''We should be putting the hammer down and making up for lost time,'' he wrote. ''That means doing what the agency has done: given us a time certain -- the end of the year -- in which to complete our work.''
The commission has three Democrats, but one, Michael Dunn, has his term expiring this summer. He can stay on beyond that date, but if he chooses to leave, a successor is sure to face fierce confirmation questions in the Senate, where lawmakers are heavily divided on the new rules.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gary Gensler of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which under Dodd-Frank will oversee far larger markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TESTIMONY (68%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (66%); BANK FAILURES (63%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



588 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Johnson & Johnson to End Line of Drug-Coated Heart Stents

BYLINE: By DUFF WILSON

 BODY:
Johnson & Johnson announced on Wednesday that it would stop manufacturing drug-coated heart stents by the end of the year, abandoning an intensely competitive $4 billion market after a series of setbacks for the company and rising concerns about the use of stents in some patients.
The company is expecting to take a $500 million to $600 million restructuring charge this quarter and to trim 900 to 1,000 jobs this year. 
The announcement by the company and its subsidiary Cordis, long expected by some analysts because of a dwindling market share, opens up more sales possibilities for three competitors.
The use of heart stents is being challenged as unnecessary for some patients. Stents are tiny devices inserted through blood vessels to keep arteries open in the heart. But research in recent years has suggested that stents are overused by doctors and that drugs may be a cheaper, safer and more effective way for many patients to avoid heart attacks or strokes.
The emerging concerns, the recession and pricing pressures have caused a fall-off in stent sales. The worldwide market for coronary stents dropped to $4.2 billion last year, from $5.3 billion in 2006, according to the investment house Leerink Swann.
Cordis's sales of drug-coated heart stents fell to $627 million globally last year, from $2.6 billion in 2006. By the end of the year, Cordis will stop manufacturing its Cypher stent -- the first drug-coated stent to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2003 -- and stop researching a new one called the Nevo stent, the company said in a statement Wednesday.
Seth Fischer, worldwide chairman of Cordis, said the decision was prompted by ''changing dynamics'' and price pressures in an increasingly competitive market.
''There's no question that our market share has declined in the last several years as competitors have joined the market,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''We felt that we could turn our attention toward other potential areas that would enhance cardiovascular health for patients.''
Mr. Fischer also said J.& J.'s losses in patent cases, including an appellate court decision last week, had a significant effect. ''Unlicensed competition'' has eroded its pricing, sales and market share, he said.
Cordis will cut 900 to 1,000 positions by closing its Cypher stent manufacturing facility in San German, Puerto Rico, and its Nevo stent plant in Cashel, Ireland, and trimming research, sales and marketing, a company spokeswoman, Sandra Pound, said in a telephone interview.
Johnson & Johnson, based in New Brunswick, N.J., has suffered a series of consumer product recalls largely because of manufacturing problems. The decision to get out of the stent market also appeared to hurt the company in the eyes of investors. The stock price dipped by 1.4 percent to $66.16 on Wednesday.
Its departure should help the market leaders, Boston Scientific and Medtronic, which are each introducing new drug-eluting stents in mid-2012, according to an investor note from Barclays Capital.
Boston Scientific stock rose 2.8 percent to $6.93, while Medtronic declined by nearly 1.25 percent, to $37.92. Abbott Laboratories, which also sells heart stents in the United States, held even in the stock market.
J.& J. held about 15 percent of the worldwide market share in drug-eluting stents. Barclays said that share was expected to drop to 10 percent this year and 7 percent in 2012.
Leerink Swann, in an investor note, said the company's withdrawal was long expected and would both help other stent-makers and help Johnson & Johnson focus on more profitable areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); MARKET SHARE (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (78%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CLOSINGS (73%); STROKES (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (63%); PATENTS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); PRODUCT RECALLS (50%)

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (94%); CORDIS CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (94%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (50%) PUERTO RICO (66%); IRELAND (51%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



589 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; TRADING UP; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Restaurant Shirts Gain Admission

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
THOUGH Robert Graham shirts are sold nationally in hundreds of stores, the label does not yet engender the kind of instant recognition that makes marketing people salivate.
But Kristina Davis knew it. An owner of Navy Beach, a year-old beachfront restaurant in Montauk, N.Y., Ms. Davis has not only spotted Robert Graham shirts at her restaurant and others in the Hamptons, she has also bought a couple for her husband, Frank, a finance executive in New York.
Don't give her too much credit for an eagle eye, though. Shirts like these are hard to miss. In bright prints, often with contrasting plackets, cuffs or collars, they are bringing a jolt of Sun Belt pizazz to the once-chillier summer wardrobes of the Northeast. Unapologetically festive, they are cropping up at cocktail parties and restaurants, leavening a dressy sense of occasion with the horseplay esprit of your old college kegger shirt. 
''I'd say it's been building for a couple of summers out here,'' Ms. Davis said. ''You see guys wearing them untucked with jeans and loafers, when they're being casual, or maybe tucked into linen trousers if they want to be more dressy.''
Showy dress shirts have never been entirely absent from the retail landscape. Etro made its name with them, and Robert Graham has made them for 10 years, said Robert Stock, a company founder.
He noted that the market has grown faster south of the Mason-Dixon line (notably in Florida and Texas -- as well as in California) than north of it. But in the last year, sales of such shirts have had such an uptick that Eric Jennings, the men's fashion director of Saks Fifth Avenue, found himself needing a way to describe them. Some 80 years ago, such garments were called sport shirts. Today that term is most likely to apply to polo shirts. As Mr. Jennings and this writer have found, the shirts are not easy to classify. Event shirt? Cocktail shirt? ''For lack of something better, we've been calling them restaurant shirts,'' he said. ''That's where they all seem to be headed.''
There is no base line of ostentation for what makes a shirt restaurant-caliber. But a simple stripe won't do, nor will a run-of-the-mill gingham or check -- not unless they're put under a microscope and blown up about 10x (as they say in the optics racket). No, think graphic, think floral, think paisley. Just don't think too hard or you'll never have the nerve to wear one.
''The first time I got my husband one -- it was flowered -- he said, 'There's no way I am wearing that,' '' Ms. Davis said. ''But I said, 'You're going to put it on, and I'm going to give you a Scotch, and then we're going out to dinner.' No one made fun of him, and he actually got a lot of compliments.''
Remember, though: Even go-for-broke means fine-tuning the style. Worn untucked, shirts that are too big and baggy run the risk of looking like sloppy holdovers from the '90s. Likewise, long tails on a shirt usually mean they were designed to disappear, so tucking in a restaurant shirt means your pants better meet the GQ standard.
''Slim, low-waist jeans or khakis,'' said Madeline Weeks, GQ's fashion director. ''Worn with an interesting belt, like the ones at Barbara Shaum in the East Village.''
If you plan to leave your tails untucked, the shirt should look as if this was meant to be, with a slim and short cut. Topman has a great selection, several in floral patterns that are more groovy than girly. Another option is a shirt in a stout fabric like oxford cloth or cotton canvas that will hold its crisp shape throughout a summer night. The outsize plaids at Thom Browne are nigh on perfect, so get them while you can. With the economy still sputtering, they may be the only huge checks you'll see this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOR STARTERS From left: Topman checked cotton snap-closure shirt, $64 at Topshop. Purple Label striped cotton shirt with a white collar, $425 at Ralph Lauren. Crown cotton paisley button-down shirt, $178 at Saks Fifth Avenue. Dsquared denim and leather shirt with a detachable collar, $625 at Bergdorf Goodman. Cotton shirt in an oversize check, $255 at Thom Browne.
All looks include: Topman navy slim-leg trousers, $50 at Topshop
 leather belt, $150 at Barneys New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID NEEDLEMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); MEN (78%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



590 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
SOCIAL MEDIA HELP SUSTAIN
DISSENT INSIDE SAUDI ARABIA
Social media, which helped drive protests across the Arab world, seem tailor-made for Saudi Arabia, where public gatherings are illegal, women are strictly forbidden to mix with unrelated men and people seldom mingle outside their family. Virtually any issue that contradicts official Saudi policy now pops up online, including the status of prisoners being held without trial or a call to boycott municipal elections this September. PAGE A6
IRAN LAUNCHES SATELLITE 
Iran said it launched a satellite into orbit that Western aerospace experts said could be used for limited military reconnaissance and also to monitor crops and track damage from earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters. PAGE A16
National
CHILDREN ON MEDICAID
WAIT LONGER FOR CARE
A new study found that children with Medicaid are far more likely than those with private insurance to be turned away by medical specialists or made to wait more than a month for an appointment, even for serious medical problems. PAGE A24
BAPTISTS APPEAL TO MINORITIES
With the election of a black pastor to a senior position this week and a new action plan to increase ethnic diversity in its leadership, the Southern Baptist Convention has taken its most concrete steps yet to overcome a history of racial exclusion and to broaden its appeal in a changing American population. PAGE A22
California's Stopgap Budget A21
New York
MOST SERIOUS CHARGES
REJECTED IN SYNAGOGUE PLOT
Two men who were accused of plotting to blow up Manhattan's largest synagogue, and to kill as many Jews as possible in the process, were formally indicted, but not on the most serious criminal charges sought by the Manhattan district attorney's office. PAGE A28
Business
STATES PURSUE MORE
IN PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS
In the most definitive sign yet that the era of generous compensation for public-sector employees is ending, workers in more than half the states face the prospect of paying more of their salaries toward their pensions. PAGE B1
RETAILERS FLOCK TO EUROPE
Abercrombie is the latest in a stampede of American retailers opening in Europe. The expansion is based on a major shift in how young Europeans think about American fashion. PAGE B1
PANDORA'S WALL STREET DEBUT
Shares of Pandora Media, a popular but unprofitable online music service, made their New York Stock Exchange debut, ending the day up 8.9 percent. It was a solid performance -- all the more so because it came on a day of a broad slump in the overall stock market. PAGE B1
OPTIMISM IN WEAK ECONOMY
It is the job of George Osborne, Britain's chancellor of the Exchequer, to project an air of optimism, no matter how bad the data on the nation's economy has become. But as growth numbers continue to disappoint, Mr. Osborne's job is becoming more of a challenge. PAGE B3
Sports
SMALL NATION HAS
OUTSIZE PRESENCE
Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell entered the world's top-10 rankings with a sonic boom. Heading into the United States Open, McDowell sits seventh, one spot ahead of McIlroy. Northern Ireland's stratospheric rise in golf leads to the question: How is it that a country of roughly 1.6 million people is flying so high? PAGE B17
PROGRESS IN N.F.L. TALKS
People briefed on the state of the N.F.L.'s labor negotiations have noted real progress, along with an optimistic whisper that a deal might be completed sooner than expected, perhaps by July 4. Where things exactly stand, then, is hard to say. PAGE B15
Arts
OSCAR RULES FOR BEST PICTURE
CHANGE YET AGAIN
Delivering yet another jolt to an Oscar system that has been shaken in recent years by shifting rules and dates, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences said it would now change to a variable system under which the number of best picture nominees can range from 5 to 10 in any year. PAGE C1
Home
THE CASE FOR ESCHEWING
THE AIR-CONDITIONER
A growing body of research suggests that fans deserve a bigger fan club. They use precious little energy and cost practically nothing to run: in the case of a ceiling fan, about a nickel for a 12-hour day. PAGE D1
Thursday Styles
JILLIAN MICHAELS,
FIT FOR NEW CHALLENGES
In a move at least two years in the making, Jillian Michaels left ''The Biggest Loser'' to pursue her dream of becoming a household name in health and wellness instead of just ''America's toughest trainer.'' PAGE E1
Powdered Products for Men D3
OP-ED
Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A33

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INDICTMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (68%); RELIGION (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (63%); CITIES (56%); CITY GOVERNMENT (56%)

COMPANY: PANDORA MEDIA INC (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (55%)

TICKER: P (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



591 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Unaffordable Roaming

 BODY:
In a plugged-in, hyperglobalized world, one might expect that our communications networks would allow us to roam widely, cellphones and tablets connected to the matrix, no matter the location. But when it comes to telecommunications pricing, globalization stopped at the border. 
A new survey found that international data roaming among the industrialized countries (members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) costs, on average, $6 to $10 per megabyte -- about the amount needed to e-mail a few low-resolution snapshots.
Talking isn't much cheaper. A similar study two years ago reported that the average price of a three-minute local call in an O.E.C.D. country while roaming internationally was $6.76.
These exorbitant prices have little to do with the cost of moving a byte or a sentence over telecom networks, which has fallen sharply in recent years. Rather, the O.E.C.D. suggests it reflects a lack of competition among wireless carriers offering cross-border roaming services.
This has likely been compounded in the United States by a lack of regulation of the interconnection fees that telecom operators charge each other to let data flow across their networks.
American wireless customers roaming in other industrial nations pay about $8 to $22 per megabyte, on average. In Europe, where interconnection rates are capped, roaming is still expensive but substantially cheaper. French and British roamers pay less than $7.
These prices deserve the attention of policy makers. Roaming is not a niche market. It is a basic tool in an increasingly interconnected world. In North America, 17 percent of wireless subscribers use international mobile roaming, as do one-third of Europeans. At these prices, one wonders how they can afford it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



592 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: After the Scandal, More of the Same at the I.M.F.

BYLINE: By KENNETH S. ROGOFF. 
Kenneth S. Rogoff, a professor of economics at Harvard, is the co-author of ''This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly.'' He was chief economist at the I.M.F. from 2001 to 2003.

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
AS the world struggles to emerge from the greatest financial crisis since the Depression, the institution at the heart of the global economic system is facing a profound crisis of governance. Since the International Monetary Fund's inception at the end of World War II, Europe and the United States have dominated decision-making. Incredibly, and possibly dangerously, decisions are now being made to keep the backward-looking status quo for at least another five years.
True, the final stage of the race for the top job at the I.M.F. still offers the possibility that a Mexican candidate might beat out the French front-runner. Unfortunately, with Europe still controlling an excessive voting share, the outcome has all the suspense of a Soviet-era election. Worse, the I.M.F. board does not seem to feel the need to establish even a pretext of legitimacy for the powerful No. 2 position; everyone takes for granted that the board will rubber-stamp whomever the Obama administration nominates. 
In a world where markets already pay more attention to what happens in China than in Europe, and where loans from emerging economies are keeping the debt-challenged United States economy on life support, the I.M.F.'s outdated governance practices have become an accident waiting to happen. The I.M.F. has long been the last line of defense in emerging-market debt crises, combining big short-term loans with technical assistance that has proven effective far more often than not. Today it is on the front lines of the European debt crisis, with Greece, Ireland and Portugal teetering on the brink. Given Japan's huge debts and demographic implosion, and China's runaway growth boom, it is not hard to imagine a vast I.M.F. program in Asia in the next decade. Even the United States is a potential customer if it continues for another 10 or 15 years to neglect its soaring debt burden.
If the fast-growing economies of Asia and Latin America feel disenfranchised from the I.M.F. -- there is still a strong undercurrent of hostility in Asia over the fund's handling of the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis -- it will be difficult for the I.M.F. to raise money to deal with Europe and potentially Japan and to credibly do its work in emerging markets now and in the future. And because American and European leaders do not want to hear when their monetary, fiscal or regulatory policies are out of whack, the I.M.F. is really the only strong voice that can deliver the message; a non-European is best-equipped to deliver it.
Until a few weeks ago, everyone seemed to agree that it was high time for a change. The presumption was that the I.M.F. board would choose its next managing director from the handful of supremely qualified candidates from emerging markets, thereby strengthening its claim to be a truly global institution. The incumbent, Dominique Strauss-Kahn of France, was on record supporting a transparent, merit-based approach for choosing his successor. Given the prestige he had amassed leading the I.M.F. during the crisis, it was assumed that he would use his influence to shepherd in the new era.
Everything changed in mid-May. Mr. Strauss-Kahn was forced to resign after being accused of sexually assaulting a hotel housekeeper. Suddenly, the I.M.F. became tabloid fodder and the plans for an open and meritocratic selection process were tossed out the window. With the I.M.F.'s legitimacy now under unexpected attack on a second front, gender inequality, European leaders inventively coalesced around the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde.
Just a short while ago, the fact that Ms. Lagarde is French would surely have been disqualifying, given that the French have held the I.M.F. leadership for most of the last three decades. Ms. Lagarde's training as a lawyer, rather than as an economist, might also have been an obstacle. The head of the I.M.F. is like the head of a central bank, and is frequently confronted with difficult judgments on the sizing and timing of debt programs, not to mention on monetary policy and regulation.
Ms. Lagarde has provided a strong and clear voice on the need for dramatic financial sector reform. But weighed against Mexico's candidate, Agustin G. Carstens, she might have come up short, at least prior to the Strauss-Kahn debacle. Mr. Carstens, who has a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, has a golden C.V. for the job. The head of the I.M.F. routinely deals with central bankers as well as finance ministers, and Mr. Carstens had held both positions in Mexico. He has also served as a deputy managing director of the I.M.F. and knows the institution inside and out.
Mr. Carstens has rightly argued that a European is going to be hugely conflicted in managing the central challenge facing the I.M.F. today: Europe. Soon, the I.M.F. will likely have to help manage government debt defaults in more than one European nation, starting with Greece. European leaders want to kick the can down the road by bribing the Greeks with more loans to prevent them from defaulting. This is where the I.M.F. normally preaches tough love.
The I.M.F. board has given itself until June 30 to decide. The circumstances of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's departure have to be taken into consideration, and the fallout on gender issues is not over. There has never been a woman as head of a major multilateral lending institution, and Ms. Lagarde is a highly credible candidate. It seems a done deal, though perhaps there is some way to cap the length of her tenure and improve the selection process next time.
And the managing director is not the only position that matters. At the end of August, John P. Lipsky, the first deputy managing director, who was named to the job by the Bush administration, is due to step down. Why not see if one of the top emerging-market candidates can be a replacement? An effective No. 2 would also be well-positioned to take over when Ms. Lagarde herself steps down. (The last three I.M.F. managing directors have departed without completing their terms.)
There is still time to set in place a merit-based selection process that could eventually form the basis for filling the top job. The I.M.F. may be a poorly understood institution, but it does not have to be a poorly governed one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); WORLD WAR II (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GREECE (58%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



593 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; U.S. OPEN; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: To Be Safe, Politicians Keep Golf At a Distance

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR; Kitty Bennett contributed research from St. Petersburg, Fla.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Less than 20 miles from the Capitol's steps, through the buttoned-down section of the city and down a tree-lined parkway, sits a country club founded 87 years ago to give politicians and businessmen a place to loosen up and schmooze.
That club, Congressional Country Club, in Bethesda, Md., was once the Shangri-La for Washington's political power brokers, a place to meet ''unconstrained by red tape,'' as the club's Web site says. And politicians, including the four United States presidents who are listed among the club's founding members, took advantage of it.
But times have changed for Congressional, which is hosting the United States Open this week, and for golf itself. With the first round scheduled for Thursday, the scene there is nothing like it was in 1964, when the club hosted its first United States Open, and it has markedly changed since even 1997, when it hosted its second. That was the last time a major tournament was held there. 
''Most members of Congress won't tell you, 'I'm going to the U.S. Open at Congressional this week,' simply because these days they would just as soon not be associated with the game of golf,'' said the longtime Washington lobbyist Dan Tate Sr., who is one of the area's top golfers, according to a recent ranking of power brokers by Golf Digest. ''Most of them are going to say they are not going, or they are not going to acknowledge that they are going. There's something wrong there, and it's a shame, but they have to be aware of appearances.''
The scandal involving the lobbyist Jack Abramoff and his all-expenses-paid golf junkets for politicians like Tom DeLay, the Texas Republican who had been the House majority leader, damaged the sport's dinged reputation in Washington. Then, in 2007, new ethics rules barred lawmakers from accepting meals, travel and gifts from lobbyists or any organization employing them. That pinched the ability of members of Congress and businessmen, the two groups for which the Congressional Country Club was founded, to tee off together.
And now with two wars, a tight economy and a high national unemployment rate, the prevailing belief is that constituents do not want to see their representatives having fun at the golf course.
''Right now, some constituents think that members of Congress playing golf is a big deal and they don't like it,'' Tate Sr., who lobbies for the PGA Tour, said. ''There is so much less talk about politicians going fishing or hunting, because that supposedly makes those members of Congress seem more normal. How ambushing and slaughtering another living creature makes you more normal, I have no idea. But it's all about perception.''
Concerns with perception are not entirely new. President John F. Kennedy was so sensitive about his golf game going public that he forbade photographers from the course. Once he nearly shot a hole in one and was relieved that his ball stopped six inches short because the feat would have made news. In 2003 President George W. Bush said that he gave up golf out of sensitivity to families of fallen soldiers in the Iraq war.
This week politicians were vague about their plans for the Open, if they had any. One might have expected it to be a four-day golf festival for lawmakers when the course was selected as host in 2004.
A special viewing platform near the 16th hole was built for President Clinton in 1997 to watch the Open, but President Obama has not publicly expressed an interest in attending this year's tournament, nor has he ever played Congressional. Speaker John A. Boehner, who will be in town this weekend, does not have the Open penciled in on his schedule, according to his spokesman Michael Steel.
Obama and Boehner's own golf competition has trumped the Open, with their first meeting on the links scheduled for Saturday at an undisclosed location. How that outing will play with voters is still unclear.
Representative John Yarmuth, Democrat from Kentucky, worked as a staffer in Congress in the 1970s, and said he ''was invited out all the time to go to Congressional,'' and that lobbyists would pay. But those days are long gone, he said. Now, the closest he is likely to come to Congressional's links may be this weekend, if he can find time to attend the Open.
Representative Joe Baca, a California Democrat who heads the Congressional Golf Caucus, a bipartisan group that promotes the sport, also said he would probably not have time to fit in a trip to the Open. Baca said he did not belong to Congressional or any other club in Washington, choosing more often to play on public courses so ''you don't become a part of the snots that belong to the country club areas. You're amongst the people.''
The clientele at Congressional is undoubtedly exclusive. The initiation fees, which are not publicly disclosed, are more than $100,000, with a reported waiting list of more than seven years.
Tony Russo, a lobbyist at T-Mobile and a former staffer for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., is ranked as Washington's best golfer and says the hefty initiation fee is worth it because of the club's amenities, which include two championship golf courses, pools, a bowling alley and junior golf programs. He has been a member for four years. After all, it is not as expensive as some clubs in Arizona, which have initiation fees of $200,000 or $300,000, he said.
This week, though, the biggest perk of being a member of Congressional might be that each member has the option to buy two tickets to the Open each day. But when he was asked if people had been clamoring to be his plus-one for the Open, Russo said no.
Nowadays , like tickets to the Open this year, club membership is arguably less coveted than it was. There are about 1,100 active resident members, and politicians make up less of the membership than they used to, said Ben Brundred, a former president of the club.
''When I was younger, a typical golf foursome might include members of Congress and a doctor,'' he said. ''Now it's more doctors and lawyers.''
In the past, Brundred said, members of Congress were given discounted membership rates, so they could afford to join. But that ended in the 1970s, he said.
Senator Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, said people back home often asked him about Congressional, which, because of its name, they assume is for members of Congress.
''To many of my golf constituents' dismay, I don't have a membership,'' said Udall, who is considered the top golfer in Congress. ''I haven't played there. I can't get them in there.''
But he may go this weekend.
''I think I can find a way to go one of the days,'' he said. ''But I want to be clear. I'd be paying for those tickets.''
Congressional Country Club, Bethesda, Md. Thursday's TV schedule ESPN: 10 a.m.-3 p.m. NBC: 3-5 p.m. ESPN: 5-7 p.m.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A reminder to U.S. Open golfers that they're at Congressional Country Club. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B12)
Representative Joe Baca, who heads the Congressional Golf Caucus, said he probably would not go to the U.S. Open. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS GRAHAM/ROLL CALL PHOTOS) (B18) GRAPHIC
 CHART: Who Might Make Noise: Times reporters choose their favorites to win the 111th U.S. Open 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ATHLETES (74%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ETHICS (63%); SCANDALS (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

PERSON: JOE BACA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



594 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: China Weighs Incentives To Aid Energy Efficiency

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- The Chinese government is considering plans to subsidize the use of energy-efficient materials and renewable energy technologies in new buildings and is encouraging provincial and municipal governments to impose stricter efficiency standards than the national minimums, Chinese officials said Wednesday.
China's heightened interest in saving energy -- a response to electricity shortages and blackouts this year as well as longer-term security worries about dependence on energy imports -- comes as the country's construction industry continues to barrel ahead at a breathtaking pace. Last year, China consumed eight times as much cement as the world's second-largest consumer, India, and it now leads the world in consumption of steel and other industrial materials by wide margins. 
With 13 million to 21 million rural people in China migrating to cities each year -- a number comparable to the 18.9 million people in metropolitan New York -- the real estate industry has been putting up office towers and apartment buildings at a brisk pace but often with little regard for energy efficiency.
Chinese estimates show that the country's commercial office buildings use 10 to 20 percent less electricity per square meter than comparable Western buildings. But the savings tend to come not from better designs but from thermostats set as high as 26 degrees Celsius (79 Fahrenheit) in summer and as low as 18 degrees (64 Fahrenheit) in winter.
Senior executives in the glass manufacturing and other material industries said that Chinese construction companies had long chosen low-cost, less insulated materials because buildings in China tended to change hands so frequently that owners seldom looked at long-term paybacks from electricity savings.
The construction boom is a central reason China passed the United States last year as the world's largest consumer of electricity. China has also passed the United States as the world's largest emitter of global warming gases, although it lags far behind in emissions and electricity consumption per person, because it has more than four times as many people as the United States.
Hao Bin, the building energy-efficiency director at the Chinese Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, said Wednesday that the ministry had already adopted an energy labeling system for new commercial and government buildings but wanted to create fiscal incentives for developers to use more efficient materials and adopt renewable energy. The most effective course seems to lie in subsidies for materials, as government studies have suggested that tax credits would be less effective, he said.
Some Chinese cities and provinces, from Beijing in the northeast to Yunnan in the southwest, already have limited subsidies for construction supplies, including insulation and rooftop solar water heaters. The heaters have water-filled steel tubes that zigzag in front of a reflective surface, which concentrates the sun's rays on the tubes.
The Chinese central government has begun taking preliminary steps to subsidize the installation of rooftop photovoltaic solar panels, but the Finance Ministry has moved slowly because of concerns about the potential cost. China already manufactures more than half the world's solar panels, but exports almost all of them.
Mr. Hao declined to provide a date for the introduction of a national incentive policy for energy-efficient construction materials and did not specify what materials would qualify. But he said that it was a focus of policy planners.
The question that policy makers are asking themselves, he said, is, ''How can we have a carrot policy which is supplemented by our labeling system?''
Provincial governments have already begun subsidizing the construction of factories that produce energy-efficient products like triple-layer insulated glass.
Hongda Vacuum, a manufacturer of glass-coating equipment for solar panels and insulated windows, bought valuable land next to a large road six years ago on the outskirts of Changsha in Hunan Province for a third of the cost at the time for industrial land, said Huang Le, a marketing executive for the company. Surging land prices since then meant that the property soon became worth 10 times as much on the market as the price the company had paid for it, with a discount, in 2005, he said in an interview last year.
''We got the discount because we are a good project, something the government really wants to promote,'' Mr. Huang said, adding that the company could borrow against the value of the land to finance expansion.
The central government has already renovated nearly 5,000 of its own buildings in northern China to install more insulation. It has subsidized similar renovations for buildings owned by provincial, municipal and village governments.
A complication for China is that the latest five-year plan, starting this year, calls for a sharp increase in the construction of low-income housing -- traditionally an industry with low profit margins and a bias toward inexpensive materials -- together with further curbs on the construction of high-end housing.
But Zhou Jiang, a policy researcher for the housing ministry, said Wednesday that energy-efficient materials added only 5 to 10 percent to the cost of a building.
''It is possible we build our low-income housing as green buildings,'' Mr. Zhou said.
He and Mr. Hao were speaking at the opening of the Global Green Building China Focus 2011 conference in Shanghai.
One point that they did not address was how long it might take for energy-saving materials to pay for themselves in electricity savings. The Chinese government has been holding down electricity prices as an anti-inflation measure even as spot prices for coal, the country's dominant fuel for power generation, have doubled in the last five years.
Chinese electricity companies have responded by limiting the operating hours of coal-fired plants in the last two years and slowing construction of new power plants, causing blackouts that have focused more public attention on the energy efficiency of buildings.
Residential electricity rates in China are half to two-thirds of rates in the United States. Industrial electricity rates in China are officially higher than those in the United States, but large or politically connected users frequently receive discounts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Solar panels in Yiwu, Zhejiang Province. Rather than raise electricity prices, China is weighing subsidies to promote conservation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINA DAILY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (93%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); CONSUMPTION (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); THERMAL SENSORS (71%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (71%); PRODUCT LABELING (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (61%); GLASS MFG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); YUNNAN, CHINA (58%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



595 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Plant, Left for Dead, Shows a Pulse

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
HOLLYWOOD, Ala. -- Spider webs line the 50-story cooling towers, parts have been amputated for the scrap value of their nickel or copper, and the control room still has analog dials at Bellefonte 1, a half-built nuclear plant here that was shelved 23 years ago.
This does not seem like a particularly opportune moment to breathe life back into a reactor that was designed before the computer age. But its owner, the quasi-governmental Tennessee Valley Authority, says the plant may be its best bet for generating cleaner and more economical new electricity.
Since an earthquake and tsunami unleashed a nuclear disaster at Japan's Fukushima reactors in March, several countries have distanced themselves from nuclear energy. The German chancellor announced her intention to shutter all of the country's nuclear facilities by 2022, and the Swiss Parliament is heading in the same direction. 
A modern reactor project in Texas was canceled after Fukushima, and one in Maryland fell apart last year. And even before the catastrophe in Japan, the nuclear industry as a whole had been suffering from a surfeit of generating capacity, the cheap price of natural gas and the high price of construction.
So why is the Tennessee Valley Authority -- which recently announced it would close 18 antiquated and dirty coal-fired plants -- trying to revive a reactor that for years has served only as a salvage heap?
Right now, said Eric T. Beaumont, a nuclear expert and partner in Copia Capital, a private investment firm in Chicago, ''it doesn't seem like the most prudent use of money.''
''They should definitely be doing something different,'' said Louis A. Zeller, science director for the Blue Ridge Environmental Defense League, a regional advocacy group. He likes to call Bellefonte ''the zombie reactor'' because it is neither dead nor alive.
Mr. Zeller and other skeptics say that beyond the obvious challenges the nuclear industry faces, the Bellefonte 1 project has inescapable flaws. The reactor is too expensive and too antiquated, they contend, and it lies in an earthquake zone.
But the authority is moving forward, estimating that Bellefonte 1 could be up and running as early as 2020, half a century after it was conceived. Cost estimates for completing the reactor run $4 billion to $5 billion on top of the $4 billion that has already been invested.
Thomas Kilgore, the authority's president and chief executive, said finishing it now would make more sense later. ''Why nuclear?'' he said. ''Once you get the unit built, you've got inflation locked out.''
Mr. Beaumont, the industry analyst, said that ''based on cost, I absolutely think you can say it's crazy.'' But that assessment might change over time, he allowed.
The Environmental Protection Agency could force additional coal-generated power plants to close as it polices greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the demand for cleaner sources of energy, he said. The price of natural gas will eventually rise, making nuclear energy more competitive, he added, and at some point, existing nuclear plants will wear out.
T.V.A. executives have another troublesome variable to deal with, unpredictable changes in demand, which is what they say caused them to shut down construction in 1988.
''I can't forecast out 8 or 10 years,'' Mr. Kilgore said, but ''we just know when we get there, Bellefonte 1 is a good economic proposition.''
Because the plant already has a precious construction license, albeit from 1974, and because of the authority's independent status, it faces far fewer obstacles than most other reactor builders.
The T.V.A. does not answer to state regulators. It has no shareholders to worry. As a federally chartered corporation established in 1933 as part of the New Deal, it is overseen by nine directors who are appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate. Today it supplies electricity across parts of seven states, serving roughly nine million people.
It also enjoys financial advantages that most public utilities lack, borrowing money at rates similar to those paid by the United States Treasury, which is critical for building hugely expensive reactors.
That makes it one of the very few American builders that could pull off a nuclear power comeback in this climate. With the exception of Watts Bar 1, another T.V.A. plant that was mothballed for a time but was finished in 1996, no new reactor construction has been started since the early 1990s. Two new plants in Georgia and South Carolina are awaiting construction permits, and the authority is working on finishing a second Watts Bar reactor similar in vintage to Bellefonte 1 that is expected to be completed next year.
Authority managers have said they would ask their board this summer for money to complete Bellefonte 1; last year the board voted to allocate $248 million just to explore that possibility.
Currently, the T.V.A. gets 60 percent of its energy from fossil fuels, mostly coal, and in addition to the 18 generators it recently agreed to shut at the urging of the E.P.A., it must decide whether to scrub or close several more. The authority's goal is to have 50 percent of its generation come from ''low or zero carbon-emitting sources'' by 2020, which is why Bellefonte 1 is a dinosaur back in play.
Bellefonte 1 is the most on-again, off-again nuclear project in the country. In 1970, the T.V.A. said that within eight years it would build two nuclear reactors here for $650 million. Construction did not start until 1974, and by 1988, the authority had spent more than six times what it had budgeted.
When it realized there was no immediate need for the power, construction ceased. In 1994, the authority tried to arrange to sell the plant's output to the Philadelphia Electric Company. That deal fell through. In 1997, it tried to make another deal with the Energy Department, which needed a reactor to make tritium for nuclear weapons. But another T.V.A. reactor was enlisted.
Representative Mo Brooks, a Republican whose Congressional district covers northern Alabama, said he was all for completing the plant. ''More people have been killed by coal than nuclear, by far, when you talk about the mining, the pollution of the water and the air pollution,'' he said. ''Nuclear's not perfect, but it seems to be better than any alternative.''
The City Council in nearby Scottsboro and the Jackson County Commission both adopted resolutions last year favoring either completion of Bellefonte 1 or construction of a new reactor.
Residents say Bellefonte 1 will do wonders for the local economy. Operating the completed plant is expected to take 2,800 workers, which would make it the largest employer in the county.
''Had it not been for the T.V.A., we would still be watching TV by candlelight,'' said Ron Bailey, the vice president for business development at the Jackson County Chamber of Commerce.
Kayla Thomas, 27, a school cafeteria worker shopping in Scottsboro with her 8-year-old daughter, Trinity, said the region needed a ''pick-me-up.''
''Even if some of those people are coming from out of town, guess what, they're going to be spending the money here,'' she said.
The prospect of nuclear accidents does not worry her, Ms. Thomas said. ''Anything is going to have its safety issues,'' she said, using her fingers to draw quote marks in the air around the word safety.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A 50-story cooling tower at the partly built Bellefonte nuclear plant in Hollywood, Ala. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC SCHULTZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A26) MAP: Residents say the reactor will benefit the local economy. (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); TSUNAMIS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); CLOSINGS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (66%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (55%)

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



596 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1201 words

PERSON: Alan Haberman 

HEADLINE: Alan Haberman, Champion of a Symbol, Dies at 81

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
On a summer morning in 1974, a man in Ohio bought a package of chewing gum and the whole world changed.
At 8:01 a.m. on June 26 of that year, a 10-pack of Wrigley's Juicy Fruit gum slid down a conveyor belt and past an optical scanner. The scanner beeped, and the cash register understood, faithfully ringing up 67 cents.
That purchase, at a Marsh Supermarket in Troy, Ohio, was the first anywhere to be rung up using a bar code.
Today, trillions of beeps later, what was once a novel technology with uncertain prospects is so widespread as to be almost invisible. It informs nearly every aspect of modern life, providing a means for people to buy and sell things, couriers to track packages and airlines to locate (in principle, anyway) lost luggage. 
This transformation, industry experts say, is largely because of the work of one person, a supermarket executive from Massachusetts named Alan L. Haberman, who died on Sunday at 81.
Mr. Haberman did not invent the universal product code, or U.P.C., as the most prevalent type of bar code is formally known. But it is to him that its sheer black-and-white ubiquity and familiar graphic form are primarily owed.
His death, in Newton, Mass., was of complications of heart and lung disease, his family said.
Born of an effort to modernize the grocery industry, the U.P.C. standardized the way consumer product information is represented in the electronic age. It has spread to every corner of human endeavor, creating an unlikely global family of bar-coded bedfellows that includes bran flakes and books and bananas, bus tickets, babies and bees.
Tens of millions of different objects have acquired bar codes over the years; each day, more than five billion of the codes are scanned in retail establishments worldwide, according to GS1 US, the nonprofit organization based in Lawrenceville, N.J., that issues and administers the codes.
Mr. Haberman led the industry committee that chose the bar code over other contenders -- circles, bull's-eyes and seemingly random agglomerations of dots -- in 1973.
By all accounts, he spent years afterward cajoling manufacturers, retailers and the public to accept the strange new symbol, which resembles a highly if irregularly compacted zebra. His efforts helped cement the marriage between the age-old practice of commerce and the new world of information technology.
Alan Lloyd Haberman was born in Worcester, Mass., on July 27, 1929. He earned a bachelor's degree in American history and literature from Harvard in 1951 and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School in 1953.
After a brief career on Wall Street as a stock analyst, he joined Hills Supermarkets, a Long Island chain, as executive vice president. In the mid-1960s, after a merger with E. J. Korvette, the discount retailer, Mr. Haberman was named president of Hills-Korvette Supermarkets. He was later the chief executive of Finast, a Massachusetts-based supermarket chain.
The bar code dates back to the 1940s, when two graduate students at the Drexel Institute of Technology in Philadelphia, Norman Joseph Woodland and Bernard Silver, developed it for use in grocery stores. They received a patent in 1952, but because scanning technology was poor then, their invention went largely unused.
Over the next two decades, some manufacturers and retailers put their own product coding systems in place, but one company's system was usually unintelligible to another's.
As Stephen A. Brown, the author of ''Revolution at the Checkout Counter,'' a history of the bar code, explained in a telephone interview, ''The grocery product manufacturers -- Kellogg's, General Mills, people like that -- they were terrified at the thought that they would soon be facing conflicting demands from their customers: that Safeway would ask them to put on a symbol that was a semicircle, that Kroger would ask them to put on a symbol that was a square, and so on.''
Mr. Brown, a former general counsel to the Grocery Manufacturers of America and later to the Uniform Code Council, as GS1 US was previously known, was present during the bar-code selection process.
By the early 1970s, amid rising inflation, supermarkets wanted to cut labor costs by automating the ways their wares were stocked, inventoried and rung up. A committee of executives was convened, with Mr. Haberman as its chairman, to choose a standard symbol that could be used nationwide to encode product data electronically.
By this time the Woodland-Silver patent had lapsed, and the committee examined submissions from more than a dozen technology companies.
As Mr. Brown recalled, Mr. Haberman soon came to favor a design of black-and-white vertical bars, created by George J. Laurer of I.B.M. and inspired by the Woodland-Silver model.
The design would print crisply, which meant scanners could read it clearly. Through its varying patterns of thick and thin bars, it could efficiently represent the 11 digits needed to encode data about manufacturer and product. (Today, U.P.C. codes typically have 12 digits.)
Mr. Haberman's committee comprised more than half a dozen type-A businessmen, and discussion could be fractious. At one meeting, in San Francisco in the early 1970s, as Mr. Brown's book reports, Mr. Haberman found a spectacularly good way to smooth dissent. First he organized a dinner at one of the city's finest restaurants. Then he took everyone to a local movie theater to see ''Deep Throat.''
Not long afterward, the committee voted unanimously for the I.B.M. bar code, adopted in April 1973.
Mr. Haberman, who lived in Natick, Mass., is survived by his wife, the former Natalie Diamond; two children, Arthur Haberman and Jeanette Gannon; two sisters, Elaine Feldman and Arnalee Cohen; and five grandchildren. A daughter, Nan Haberman, died before him, as did a grandson.
As a founder and longtime board member of the Uniform Code Council, Mr. Haberman was for decades an ambassador for automated product identification in all its forms, from the bar code to newer technologies like radio frequency identification, now used by some retailers.
''Go back to Genesis and read about the Creation,'' he told The Boston Globe in 2004. ''God says, 'I will call the night ''night''; I will call the heavens ''heaven.'' ' Naming was important. Then the Tower of Babel came along and messed everything up. In effect, the U.P.C. has put everything back into one language, a kind of Esperanto, that works for everyone.''
That language is everywhere. At hospitals throughout the world, newborns are identified by means of bar codes on bracelets. Marathon runners take to the streets, bar codes on chests. Scientists tracking the movements of honeybees have glued tiny bar codes onto their backs.
In recent years, the new generation of two-dimensional, cellphone-scannable bar codes -- heirs of the U.P.C. code -- has let consumers track the lowest price of a favorite product or scan a real estate sign to see photos of a house for sale.
And today, in Washington, somewhere in the bowels of the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History, lies a 37-year-old, bar-coded package of Juicy Fruit gum. Part of the museum's permanent collection, it is an unassailable, if by now unchewable, piece of the national past.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alan Haberman was one of a handful of people responsible for adoption of the U.P.C. bar code, now ubiquitous. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GS1 US
 STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); CONFECTIONERY (90%); RETAILERS (86%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (77%); MERGERS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); HISTORY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); LITERATURE (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (62%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); ISLANDS & REEFS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



597 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Stores Demand Mannequins With Personality (Heads Optional)

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
''One size fits all'' no longer applies to mannequins.
With retailers fighting for customers in the sluggish economic recovery, the generic white, hairless, skinny mannequin is being pushed aside by provocative alternatives that entice shoppers with muscles, unusual poses, famous faces and lifelike bodies.
''The customer shops from the mannequin,'' said Jenny Ming, chief executive of the youth retailer Charlotte Russe, where poses for new mannequins are drawn from red-carpet celebrity pictures, and feature pierced ears, articulated fingers for rings and flexed feet for high heels. ''The No. 1 reason our customers come in is because they see something they like.'' 
The Disney Stores chain has added little-boy figurines that fly from the ceiling and little-girl ones that curtsey. Nike has made its mannequins taller, and added about 35 athletic poses. Armani Exchange has ordered models that will lie down to help shoppers imagine wearing lingerie. A new accessories-only store by Guess features glossy black mannequins in model-like poses on an actual runway, while Ralph Lauren's new women's store in Manhattan commissioned mannequins with the face of the model Yasmin Le Bon.
It is all part of a new appreciation for old-fashioned window dressing. During the 1990s and early 2000s, many stores cut costs by hiring inexperienced workers to outfit their mannequins, and generic was best as the dummies needed to be dummy-proof. But with shoppers getting increasingly persnickety, retailers are expecting their store displays to serve as ''come on in'' advertising, with the made-to-order mannequins sending a very specific message.
''They personify their brand with their mannequin statements, and they're looking for something a little more customized or unique,'' said Peter Huston, brand president at Fusion Specialties, a mannequin company in Colorado whose sales, almost all of custom mannequins, rose 48 percent last year.
One of Fusion's customers is Athleta, the sportswear company owned by Gap Inc. It commissioned mannequins based on a catalog model, Danielle Halverson, a track-and-field athlete training for the Olympics.
Fusion Specialties digitally scanned Ms. Halverson in stationary and action sequences. Then, over about two weeks, seven sculptors created clay renderings of the 3-D digital scans that ''hand-etched her from a tiny pile of clay down to the tiny delineations of the sinew in the muscle,'' said Tess Roering, vice president for marketing at Athleta, which opened its first physical stores this year.
After making more prototypes, Fusion produced the Dani-quin, as Athleta executives started calling the mannequin, in five variations. The running pose, especially, looks realistic: she is in midstride, with only her left toes on the ground. The Dani-quin, by the way, is headless.
''We wanted to make sure that our customers weren't worrying about the hair, or anything else,'' Ms. Roering said.
Michael Steward, executive vice president of Rootstein USA, which makes mannequins for stores like Ralph Lauren, Chanel and Neiman Marcus, said the newfound appreciation for specialty mannequins came as many retailers reassessed the market.
''A lot of people have decided they have to specialize,'' Mr. Steward said. ''Nothing sells the clothing like a mannequin: it's a subliminal message from the retailer, the first thing people see in the window or in a department when they go into the store.''
When mannequins first were used, they were basically molded dress forms to which clothing makers pinned garments. By the 1920s, they had developed into torsos with joints attached, and slowly started to get wigs, makeup and glass eyes. By the 1960s, when some women stopped wearing bras, ''you started to have nipples on mannequins,'' said Linda Scott, a professor studying consumer culture at the Said Business School at Oxford. ''That was a big shift,'' she said.
But in the 1970s, as retail chains expanded nationally and cost pressures increased, mannequins shifted back toward the generic. ''That's when you saw mannequins that did not require makeup, did not require wigs, or so much attention to detail, to reduce the costs,'' said Mr. Huston, the Fusion executive.
During the recession, companies curtailed spending wherever they could, and mannequin sales slowed. But after shedding unprofitable brands or merchandise during the recession, the retailers are focused on a specific customer and a particular brand position, and they want their windows to reflect that with custom mannequins.
''Over the past two years, everyone has really had to reassess their business and their client base,'' Mr. Steward said, ''and the market is so competitive that people are just focusing on what they do well, and what they sell.''
Prices of custom mannequins run from about $400 to $1,200 a mannequin, not including the $15,000 or more that places like Fusion charge for development. A mannequin makeover can cost a national chain millions.
Is it money well spent? Not always, said Professor Scott, because shoppers are an unpredictable lot. ''Sometimes they're imagining themselves in the clothes, sometimes they're just entertaining themselves on an evening walk, sometimes they're standing there with a girlfriend talking about how stupid the clothes look,'' she said.
And Mr. Steward, the executive at Rootstein, said retailers sometimes ask too much of their mannequins.
''Everyone thinks they're going to reinvent the wheel,'' he said. ''As I always say, there's only so many things a mannequin can do: would you like two heads with that, madam?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bets Lundeen, a sculptor in Colorado, preparing a mannequin that will strike a golfing pose. (A1)
Robert Roybal, left, and Greg Amanti preparing a fiberglass mannequin at Fusion Specialties in Broomfield, Colo.
 Sculptors refine Fusion's custom mannequins to clients' specifications. Some want avant-garde, others suburban chic. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); RUNNING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TRACK & FIELD (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (65%)

COMPANY: GAP INC (83%); DISNEY STORE INC (56%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); SIC5947 GIFT, NOVELTY, & SOUVENIR SHOPS (56%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



598 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Oil Executive Turns His Attention to Ethanol

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
GENEVA -- Jean Claude Gandur, a Swiss commodities trader, made a fortune during the 1990s buying oil concessions in Africa that others did not want or could not hold.
Now a billionaire, he is poised to swim against the tide again with a major expansion into ethanol in Sierra Leone, the West African country still recovering from a decade-long civil war that ended in 2002.
One of his companies, Addax Bioenergy, was set to sign a loan agreement Thursday with six international lenders including the African Development Bank, the Netherlands Development Finance Company and the German Investment Corporation. 
The 258 million euro ($366 million) project near Makeni, in central Sierra Leone, will convert sugar cane into bioethanol for European and domestic markets.
The move again has stirred controversy as ethanol is being partly blamed for rising food prices. And it comes at a time of renewed criticism from advocacy groups worried about an exploitation of developing countries amid the global scramble for resources as food prices climb.
The Oakland Institute, a social development group based in California, warned this month in a report of a ''land grab'' under way, whereby investors including hedge funds are driving farmers off their land in Africa to make way for new industrial farming projects to profit from rising food prices.
Mr. Gandur said that despite concerns about the effects on farm markets, he thought that ethanol had a viable and profitable future, if managed properly.
The Addax project will be the largest investment so far in Sierra Leone's agricultural sector and includes a new sugar cane estate, an ethanol refinery and a biomass power plant for the refinery and the national electricity grid.
Construction begins this year, and the project is expected to be operational in 2013. It employs over 500 people and will create more than 2,000 jobs, according to Addax. The land will be leased from local landowners and tribal chiefs.
According to Addax Bioenergy, the deal follows evaluations of the social, environmental and economic effects with the government and local nonprofit groups. The memorandum of understanding was ratified by Sierra Leone's Parliament last November, and according to local news media reports, it was supported by the political opposition as well.
Mr. Gandur is no stranger to controversy, having worked in commodities trading and mining throughout his career in places where others tread warily, like Nigeria and Kurdistan.
He built his oil unit, Addax Petroleum, from scratch before selling it in 2009 to Sinopec, the Chinese oil company, for 8.4 billion Canadian dollars, or $8.6 billion at current exchange rates, taking $3.5 billion himself.
Addax says that it complies with social and environmental standards from the African Development Bank, the World Bank's International Finance Corporation and the European Union. These include commitments on child labor, setting aside part of the estate for food production and sponsoring a farmer-training program developed with the United Nations.
''That's why I don't feel guilty of doing anything immoral,'' he said during a recent interview. ''On the contrary, if other countries cope with the same model, we can give a chance to Africa to employ people. Without being naive, it's a good way to bring back agriculture in Africa.''
But according to the Oakland Institute, by early 2011, close to 500,000 hectares, or 1.2 million acres, of farmland in Sierra Leone had been leased to or were under negotiation for lease by foreign investors, representing almost 10 percent of 5.4 million hectares of land suitable for farming by small landholders, which employs about half the population. It also cited food security risks and questioned the level of genuine interaction between the project and illiterate local farmers.
''The conditions surrounding agricultural investments in Sierra Leone are ripe for exploitation and conflict,'' the institute said.
Duncan Pruett, an adviser on land rights at Oxfam, said that generally, biofuel production in poor countries ''is a double blow for poor and hungry communities.'' Land, he said, was often given away to investors or governments on abusive or unfair terms, and large-scale plantations often created little employment or food for local consumption. And diverting food into biofuel production ''is also a key driver of high and volatile food prices, which spell hunger for millions of men, women and children,'' he said.
Mr. Gandur is not shy about saying his intent is to make a profit, not to be a charity. But he said that by operating under the ''watch and auspices of international bodies,'' he thought his project could ''be used as a model for other companies.''
In any case, Mr. Gandur, 62, said he expected the bet on ethanol would be among his last major business forays. An avid collector of antiquities and postwar European paintings, he has turned his attention to finding a home for his collection.
Mr. Gandur's family, which has been referred to as the Rothschilds of the Middle East, has rich European roots. His father was a doctor, whose family emigrated to Egypt in the early 19th century. They had Italian ancestry and were ennobled in Austria in 1863. His mother's side had Ukrainian-Georgian roots. In 1921, they fled Russia, where they had run the Odessa docks, for Constantinople, before resettling in Paris.
In 1961, when Mr. Gandur was 12, the family fled Egypt for Switzerland after the second wave of nationalizations under Gamal Abdel Nasser. They lost much, though they had previously shifted wealth to Europe.
Mr. Gandur initially studied Egyptology, but around age 25, he joined the commodities trading firm Philipp Brothers. In 1987, he started the Addax & Oryx Group, named after two African antelopes, with partners.
The group grew fast, buying oil concessions in Nigeria, under the government of Gen. Sani Abacha; Kurdistan, after the toppling of Saddam Hussein; the Ivory Coast; Gabon; Cameroon and Benin. It also held gold mining concessions in Tanzania.
''In 1995 and 1996, nobody wanted acreage in Africa,'' he said. ''Oil was $9 and upstream was not in fashion,'' he said, referring to exploration.
He has been wounded by insinuations that he had to grease dictators' palms to succeed. ''I didn't build Addax on getting acreages from governments under the table,'' he said. ''We have never paid money to anyone to get acreage in Africa, never.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean Claude Gandur said he expected his bet on building an ethanol facility would be among his last major business forays. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLAS RIGHETTI/REZO.CH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); OIL & GAS LEASES (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BIOMASS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ETHANOL (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (75%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); AGRICULTURE (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); POWER PLANTS (68%); CHILD LABOR (67%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (61%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%)

COMPANY: NETHERLANDS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CO (71%); CHINA PETROCHEMICAL CORP (58%); CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (57%)

TICKER: NFB (ASX) (71%); SNP (NYSE) (51%); SNP (LSE) (51%); 0386 (HKSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE GANDUR (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (89%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFRICA (94%); SIERRA LEONE (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); SWITZERLAND (89%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



599 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Markets Falter As Worry Rises In Greek Crisis

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; Contributing reporting were Christine Hauser, Rachel Donadio, Niki Kitsantonis, Matthew Saltmarsh and Jack Ewing.

 BODY:
Greece's financial and political crisis, compounded by new fears about the pace of the United States economic recovery, sent financial markets reeling on Wednesday.
Thousands took to the streets in Athens to protest austerity measures, and Prime Minister George Papandreou said he would reshuffle his cabinet and request a vote of confidence in Parliament. At stake is the prospect of a new bailout plan for the debt-ridden country.
Anxious investors feared the situation could spin out of control, igniting a series of crises in other heavily indebted euro zone countries, like Portugal, Ireland and Spain. That, in turn, could threaten Europe's banks and even reach into the United States financial system.
''We are pretty much giving back everything we got yesterday and more,'' said Lawrence R. Creatura, a portfolio manager at Federated Investors, noting the rise in the main American indexes of more than 1 percent Tuesday. ''Today the market just can't escape the undertow of deteriorating economic data and political events.'' 
After having lost more than 200 points earlier Wednesday, the Dow Jones industrial average closed down 178.84 points, or 1.5 percent, to 11,897.27. The markets rallied earlier this year on confidence about the economic recovery, and at one point the Dow was poised to break through the 13,000 mark. But stocks have been falling week after week on a drumbeat of dismal economic news from soft job creation to falling housing prices.
The market has surrendered almost all of its gains for this year, falling 7 percent since its peak at the end of April. It may be nearing what is known as a market correction, a sort of miniature bear market characterized by a 10 percent decline in a short period of time.
Greece needs to pass a new round of austerity measures by the end of the month in return for new loans from the International Monetary Fund and the European Union.
In Athens, thousands joined a nationwide strike as Parliament prepared to debate a second round of sharp cuts in government spending. The measures are unpopular with Greeks, who have already suffered deep salary and pension cuts.
Although many analysts expect that a default by Greece on its debts will eventually be averted, the political uncertainty in Greece is providing an unsettling backdrop for investors. In addition, they are fretting because the United States this summer faces its own fractious negotiations over raising the federal debt ceiling.
The European Central Bank said on Wednesday in a report on financial risk that it would be a big mistake for Greece to be allowed to miss its debt payments, either by delaying payments to a later date, or by paying back less than the full amount. Germany, the biggest economy in the 17-member euro zone, is proposing that private sector bondholders accept some form of a loss on their Greek bonds.
This could prove damaging to Greek banks, requiring them to mark down the value of their holdings of government debt at a time when they are struggling with bad loans in their home market. And it could have similar dire repercussions for other European banks that hold Greek debt.
''The concern is that a default by Greece would not only hurt European banks but could also spread to U.S. banks,'' said Bernard Baumohl, an economist at the Economic Outlook Group in Princeton, N.J. ''Should there be a default, it can only have a delaying effect on the recovery, hurting American exports and the banks' ability to lend.''
Pointing to a slowing United States economy, a Federal Reserve regional report for New York State showed a decline in both manufacturing activity and optimism for June. Also Wednesday, a government report showed consumer prices crept up again, though they were held in check by a decline in energy prices.
The recent economic data has prompted economists to steadily downgrade their forecasts for economic growth in the second quarter of this year. Macroeconomic Advisors, a prominent forecasting firm, on Wednesday lowered its annualized second-quarter gross domestic product forecast to 1.9 percent, compared with the 3.5 percent growth it was expecting when the quarter began.
''There is enough negative data that came out of the U.S. and the situation in Europe to warrant a conservative tone in the markets,'' said Quincy Krosby, a market strategist for Prudential Financial. ''The data underscores a soft patch, and the Greek issue has deteriorated.''
The fear that a default by Greece could lead to broader European problems were fanned by Moody's Investors Service, which on Wednesday put the credit ratings of three of France's largest banks on review for a possible downgrade because of their exposure to Greek debt.
Moody's cited concerns about the exposure of the three banks, BNP Paribas, Societe Generale and Credit Agricole to the Greek economy, either through holdings of government bonds or loans to the private sector there, directly or through subsidiaries operating in Greece.
According to data from the Bank for International Settlements, French banks could potentially lose more from a collapse of Greek banks and a sovereign default than other countries, including Germany, the United States and Britain.
Moody's stressed that there were ''potential mitigants'' to the concerns about Greece, including the French banks' strong overall financial profiles, substantial scale and earnings diversification.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell sharply on Wednesday. It lost 22.45 points, or 1.74 percent, to close at 1,265.42. The Nasdaq composite index average fell 47.26 points, or 1.76 percent, to 2,631.46.
The euro, oil prices and Treasury yields also fell on Wednesday.
The stock market sell-off is a sign to some analysts that investors are entering a phase when they will flee riskier assets like stocks, commodities and richer-yielding bonds.
According to the Investment Company Institute, United States equity funds experienced outflows for at least six successive weeks. Investors redeemed about $15 billion from American stock funds since the beginning of May, even as they shifted billions into less risky bond funds.
On Wednesday, the yield on the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell to 2.98 percent from 3.10 percent, suggesting to analysts a continuing strong flow of investment funds from risky assets into safer investments like Treasuries
Marc Harris, an economist at RBC Capital Markets, said interest rates in short-term money markets -- where banks and companies borrow funds to keep their businesses going -- were ''spiking in a troubling way'' mainly in Europe.
All of the sectors of the market were down by 1.24 percent or more, with financials and materials recording the heaviest declines at more than 2.3 percent.
Crude oil took a tumble, falling $4.56, to $94.81 a barrel for July delivery, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VIOLENCE IN ATHENS: Protesters and police officers clashed Wednesday. Talks on a unity government in Greece foundered. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIS MESSINIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 Downward Trend: The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has lost more than 7 percent of its value since April 29. (Source: Bloomberg) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); BONDS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DEBT CEILING (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); STRIKES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (81%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (56%)

TICKER: FII (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE PAPANDREOU (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%) GREECE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011



600 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Our Lefty Military

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
As we search for paths out of America's economic crisis, many suggest business as a paradigm for cutting costs. According to my back-of-the-envelope math, top C.E.O.'s earn as much as $1 a second around the clock, partly by cutting medical benefits for employees. So they must be paragons of efficiency, right?
Actually, I'm not so sure. The business sector is dazzlingly productive, but it also periodically blows up our financial system. Yet if we seek another model, one that emphasizes universal health care and educational opportunity, one that seeks to curb income inequality, we don't have to turn to Sweden. Rather, look to the United States military. 
You see, when our armed forces are not firing missiles, they live by an astonishingly liberal ethos -- and it works. The military helped lead the way in racial desegregation, and even today it does more to provide equal opportunity to working-class families -- especially to blacks -- than just about any social program. It has been an escalator of social mobility in American society because it invests in soldiers and gives them skills and opportunities.
The United States armed forces knit together whites, blacks, Asians and Hispanics from diverse backgrounds, invests in their education and training, provides them with excellent health care and child care. And it does all this with minimal income gaps: A senior general earns about 10 times what a private makes, while, by my calculation, C.E.O.'s at major companies earn about 300 times as much as those cleaning their offices. That's right: the military ethos can sound pretty lefty.
''It's the purest application of socialism there is,'' Wesley Clark, the retired four-star general and former supreme allied commander of NATO forces in Europe, told me. And he was only partly joking.
''It's a really fair system, and a lot of thought has been put into it, and people respond to it really well,'' he added. The country can learn from that sense of mission, he said, from that emphasis on long-term strategic thinking.
The military is innately hierarchical, yet it nurtures a camaraderie in part because the military looks after its employees. This is a rare enclave of single-payer universal health care, and it continues with a veterans' health care system that has much lower costs than the American system as a whole.
Perhaps the most impressive achievement of the American military isn't its aircraft carriers, stunning as they are. Rather, it's the military day care system for working parents.
While one of America's greatest failings is underinvestment in early childhood education (which seems to be one of the best ways to break cycles of poverty from replicating), the military manages to provide superb child care. The cost depends on family income and starts at $44 per week.
''I absolutely think it's a model,'' said Linda K. Smith, executive director of the National Association of Child Care Resource and Referral Agencies, which advocates for better child care in America. Ms. Smith, who used to oversee the military day care system before she retired from the Defense Department, said that the military sees child care as a strategic necessity to maintain military readiness and to retain highly trained officers.
One of the things I admire most about the military is the way it invests in educating and training its people. Its universities -- the military academies -- are excellent, and it has R.O.T.C. programs at other campuses around the country. Many soldiers get medical training, law degrees, or Ph.D.'s while in service, sometimes at the country's finest universities.
Then there are the Army War College, the Naval War College and the Air War College, giving top officers a mid-career intellectual and leadership boost before resuming their careers. It's common to hear bromides about investing in human capital, but the military actually shows that it believes that.
Partly as a result, it manages to retain first-rate officers who could earn far higher salaries in the private sector. And while the ethic of business is often ''Gimme,'' the military inculcates an ideal of public service that runs deep. In Afghanistan, for example, soldiers sometimes dig into their own pockets to help provide supplies for local schools.
Granted, it may seem odd to seek a model of compassion in an organization whose mission involves killing people. It's also true that the military remains often unwelcoming to gays and lesbians and is conflicted about women as well. And, of course, the opportunities for working-class Americans are mingled with danger.
But as we as a country grope for new directions in a difficult economic environment, the tendency has been to move toward a corporatist model that sees investments in people as woolly-minded sentimentalism or as unaffordable luxuries. That's not the only model out there.
So as the United States armed forces try to pull Iraqi and Afghan societies into the 21st century, maybe they could do the same for America's.
Hoo-ah!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MILITARY BENEFITS (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (76%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); CHILDREN (72%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (69%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

 
