

401 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: THE BOSS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Suggestion Box

BYLINE: By KURT M. LANDGRAF; As told to Amy Zipkin.

 BODY:
I PLAYED baseball from the time I was a kid. I loved baseball. When I came out of high school I recall signing with a farm team. We stayed in third-rate hotels and traveled in yellow school buses, sometimes spending as much as eight or nine hours on a bus. They gave us a per diem allowance of $1.25 for food. I stayed nine weeks and they cut me. I thought my life had ended.
 I came back to Rahway, N.J., and then went to college, which I had never actually planned to do. I never had an aspiration to go to school. I was called by Wagner College on Staten Island and offered a work-study scholarship. I always assumed someone on the team was in touch with someone at the college. 
I had a life-changing experience in college with an economics professor named William Maher. He said that I could be more than average, that I had a very good intellect if I only applied myself. He was the first person who ever told me I should read two newspapers a day. There was more to life than just getting by. I needed more than luck. 
 I was born Charles Stephen Miller in Newark. I found my original birth certificate in the personal belongings of my adopted mother when she died in 1982. I was placed in an orphanage as an infant. I went there right from the hospital. Then I was placed in a foster home by the Volunteers of America. I stayed there until I was about 4, and then I was adopted and moved to Rahway. My father was a mechanic. My mother was a homemaker. After they adopted me they had a son. I never had an interest in searching for my birth parents. It was part of my past, not part of my future. 
 After college one of my first jobs was as an executive assistant to the guy who ran operations at the Educational Testing Service. I was responsible for the suggestion boxes, which were in about 15 buildings on the campus. It was my job to read the suggestions and do something about them. I got a lot of stuff besides suggestions. There were gum wrappers, pencils, paper that had been discarded. There were also a good number of meaningful suggestions and a lot of rumors. I learned the informal network was stronger than the formal one. People were getting information from their colleagues, and a lot of it was wrong. 
 I started running in 1978 as a way to stop smoking and a way to lose weight. I was smoking two packs a day, and the smoking was getting out of hand. I started by running to the corner. I ran my first marathon ever in Frankfurt in 1983 when I was working for DuPont as manager of worldwide marketing services for the pharmaceutical division. I trained for six months. I ran hundreds of miles a month. At about the 20-mile mark, a medical attendant said I looked so bad I was ready to keel over. In German, she said she thought I should quit. I told her I would rather die. I was going to finish the race. I did, in about 4 hours and 30 minutes. I still run every day.
 My name is very German, Kurt with a K. I got into a lot of trouble in Germany because the natives would start to speak very rapidly and I had to ask them to speak slowly. The first day I was there I went to a restaurant. I ordered steak tartare. I thought I was getting steak, not raw hamburger with an egg in the middle. Going to another country is disorienting. Everything that makes you feel comfortable isn't there. 
 After I left DuPont in 2000 as chief operating officer I was deciding what I was going to do. An E.T.S. board member called me. I told him I'd been there before and I didn't like it much. I didn't think my skills were appropriate, but E.T.S. had been losing money for a decade. And I've been very interested in education my entire career. Now I get to participate in the national educational dialogue.

KURT M. LANDGRAF
President and chief executive, Educational Testing Service

BIRTH DATE
Oct. 12, 1946

HOMETOWN
Newark

SAT SCORE, COMBINED
1050

CELLPHONE RING TONE
Tchaikovsky's ''1812'' Overture

RECENT READING
''Running on Empty,'' by Peter G. Peterson

NUMBER OF MASTER'S DEGREES
3

FAVORITE CITY LIVED IN ABROAD
Geneva

RECENT VACATION
Tuscany


GRAPHIC: Photo: KURT M. LANDGRAF (Photo by Educational Testing Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); ORPHANS (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PARENTS (74%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); SMOKING (62%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (60%); SMOKING CESSATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



402 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: As the McMansions Go, So Goes Job Growth 

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS. 
Daniel Gross writes the "Moneybox" column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
THERE'S a growing consensus that the housing market is cooling off. This month, Toll Brothers, the luxury home builder, warned that sales of McMansions were falling, and its highflying stock fell to earth. Last Thursday, the Commerce Department reported that housing starts, a reliable gauge of present activity, fell 5.6 percent in October from year-ago levels, while building permits, a reliable gauge of future activity, fell 6.7 percent.
 These data points are potentially worrisome, and not only for the legions of real estate brokers and Sheetrock layers toiling in offices and job sites across the country. In recent years, economists from Alan Greenspan on down have been discussing the way rising home prices and the growth of home-equity borrowing have fueled consumer spending, the piston that drives the country's economic engine. But in recent years, housing, real estate and the related industries have become a huge factor in another crucial economic area: employment growth. 
After the brief and shallow recession of 2001, the resilient United States economy stubbornly failed to create payroll jobs at the rate of past recoveries. Economists and politicians blamed factors and trends like outsourcing, global trade, high benefit costs and productivity growth. But amid the gloom, the real estate sector shouldered the burden of job creation.
 Asha Bangalore, an economist at Northern Trust in Chicago, tallied figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics for sectors like construction, building material and garden supply stores. She found that from November 2001 to October 2005, housing and real estate accounted for a whopping 36 percent of private-sector payroll job growth. ''In four years, 2.3 million private-sector jobs were created in the U.S., and 836,000 were related to the housing sector,'' she said.
 Given everything else happening in the corporate world, the housing sector was the ideal place to have an investment boom. Building, selling, decorating and renovating homes is labor intensive. And unlike much investment in the broader manufacturing sector, the money pouring into the housing industry creates demand for American labor. Yes, some housing materials come from overseas. But virtually all the labor associated with housing -- the roofers, the investment bankers who securitize mortgages into bonds, the clerks at Home Depot -- is based in the United States. 
 As a result of the boom, the economy is more concentrated on housing than ever before. ''Residential investment as a share of gross domestic product is at the highest level in 50 years,'' said Jan Hatzius, senior economist at Goldman, Sachs. 
 Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, notes that real-estate-related industries accounted for 9.7 percent of total domestic employment in the second quarter of 2005, up from 9.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2001. And in areas with the hottest markets, housing plays an even more important role. In California, 13.4 percent of jobs in the second quarter of 2005 were housing-related, versus 12.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2001. In Las Vegas, the figure rose to 14.6 percent from 12.9 percent; in Panama City, Fla., it rose to 15.4 percent from 11.7 percent. 
 So what should we expect, now that housing appears to be cooling off?
 If the frothy regional markets go flat or if prices simply stop rising at the rates of recent years, there will surely be wide-ranging economic effects on consumer spending and on jobs. ''Housing and the job markets are joined at the hip,'' Mr. Zandi said. ''And if housing cools, so too will hiring and the job market more broadly, particularly in the more juiced-up housing markets.'' 
 If housing prices are flat in 2006 and residential investment falls 5 percent, there could be a direct loss of a few hundred thousand jobs related to real estate, Mr. Hatzius said. And the indirect effects will certainly be larger, Mr. Zandi said: ''Housing is going to go from being a key contributor to the job engine to being a significant drag on job growth.''
 But there's some good news. Ms. Bangalore notes that while housing's contribution to job growth has declined in recent months, ''other sectors are picking up the slack.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Real Estate Jobs''Real-estate-related jobs as a percentage of total U.S. nonfarm payroll jobsGraph tracks real-estate-related jobs as a percentage of total U.S. nonfarm payroll jobs from 2001 through 2nd quarter of 2005.(Source by Economy.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); RECESSION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); OUTSOURCING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); ASHA (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



403 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: THE INTERNET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Why Cruise Web Sites Are So 20th Century

BYLINE: By TERRY TRUCCO

 BODY:
WHY are cruise Web sites so lousy? Despite the boom in the Internet, particularly when it comes to travel, most cruise lines have yet to embrace the online world. While many lines use their Web sites to publish last-minute deals, only a handful offer passengers online booking, and researching a cruise -- whether it's trying to find an itinerary or the layout of staterooms -- can be an exercise in frustration. 
 Judi Brownell, a professor at the Cornell Hotel School who follows the cruise industry and has taken six cruises since January, said she often ends up making calls to book cruises, when she would rather complete the transaction on her computer. ''If I wanted to call an 800 number or speak to a travel agent, I wouldn't be online,'' she said.
Professor Brownell isn't alone. Just 37 percent of 2,000 participants in a recent interactive test of travel industry Web sites found cruise line sites to be satisfactory, according to Keynote Systems, a company that analyzes e-businesses. 
 ''The sheer number of people who experienced frustration on the cruise line sites was high, especially when compared to lodging and airline sites,'' said Bonny Brown, director of research at Keynote, in San Mateo, Calif. Complaints include online customer service, difficulty in researching shipboard activities and, at the top of the list, limited online booking. 
 Some cruise lines, however, are trying to change. Many, notably Royal Caribbean and Celebrity, provide full or partial check-in online. Crystal was among the first to offer online reservations for shipboard classes, specialty restaurants, and spa appointments; Silversea recently introduced a similar feature. Princess, which had already offered excursion booking, has unveiled a feature allowing viewers to compare up to three cruises at a time, based on such criteria as itinerary and price. Next year, Radisson Seven Seas will introduce a tool for booking cruises. 
 Still, for travelers accustomed to buying flights and hotels online, it seems downright puzzling that Internet booking is not offered by more cruise lines, especially since online agencies like Expedia and Travelocity book cruises. But more than almost any segment of the travel industry, cruise lines still depend upon travel agents. 
 The sites are designed primarily to be like instant brochures, said Terry L. Dale, president of the Cruise Line Industry Association. Because a cruise is a more complex product than a flight or a hotel room, ''the cruise industry will always encourage consumers to work with an agent,'' he said. 
 That dependency on agents means cruise lines have been slow to produce top-notch sites. ''Having a great site wasn't a strategic issue since the cruise lines have used agents to sell their product,'' said Scott Barry, a cruise line analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston. 
 Nor have cruise lines been eager to alienate the sales force they have relied upon for decades by encouraging online sales, he said. Airlines and hotels, of course, once depended heavily upon travel agents. ''Particulars aside, the cruise industry typically tends to lag behind hotels and airlines,'' Mr. Barry said. 
 The close relationship between cruise lines and travel agents is rooted in cruising's multifaceted nature. It requires choices of ship, itinerary, stateroom, dining options and often flight and lodging connections, and so lends itself to sit-down sessions with a agent. 
 For first-time cruisers in particular, industry experts say, it is important to have an agent explain how things work. A good agent will match you with the right ship, a key decision since ships and cruise lines have distinctive personalities. 
 ''The most frequent complaint I hear is that the ship did not meet expectations, and that's because people didn't understand what they were purchasing,'' said Linda Coffman, editor of Cruisediva.com, a Web site that posts reader reviews of ships. 
 Cruise lines, meanwhile, like having travel agents act as buffers between themselves and passengers. According to Brian Major, a spokesman for the Cruise Line Industry Association, the average number of calls made by each cruiser is in the double digits. Agents provide a vital service for the lines, which, he said, ''are not equipped to process the number of questions people have before taking a cruise.'' 
 Passengers who work with agents often receive incentives, as they often do when booking a hotel room. Free shore excursions and stateroom upgrades are among the possible perks, said Carolyn Spencer Brown, editor of cruisecritic.com. 
 Cruise lines, meanwhile, offer agents powerful incentives. While a 10 percent commission is widely accepted as the base, they can exceed 17 percent, experts say. 
 In contrast, most major airlines did away with commissions to agents in 2002, though some quietly pay negotiated commissions to online agencies or to specific travel agents, according to a spokesman for the Airline Reporting Corporation. 
 But aspects of this delicate ecosystem could change as passengers demand online booking. Travel agents, including online agents like Orbitz and Cruisedirect, now book 90 percent of all cruises, according to the industry association. But Mr. Barry predicts that by 2008, direct sales will rise, shrinking agent reservations to 75 percent. 
 ''The growth in short cruises from drive-to ports lends itself to direct distribution,'' he said. ''And once people cruise, they have a propensity to book direct the next time.''
 Sophisticated Web sites with direct booking are of particular importance if cruise lines want to attract younger passengers. Ms. Brown of Keynote points out that the people most comfortable using the Web are under 40. ''Cruise lines risk being left behind if they don't improve their sites,'' she said. 
 This past summer, aasyCruise, a new budget line based in London, relied upon online bookings to lure cruisers in their 20's, 30's and 40's on its ship in the Mediterranean. Online sales help the company trim costs and raise or lower prices in synch with demand, according to James Rothnie, director of corporate affairs for easyGroup. 
 ''The younger audience we targeted lives on the Internet,'' he said. The company had occupancy rates of 80 percent and above and is considering a second ship, Mr. Rothnie said.
 Still, a cruise is a cruise: Mr. Rothnie admitted the company planned to work with travel agents while its ship is in the Caribbean this winter. ''Getting to the Caribbean is a big deal, especially from the U.K., so this is an instance when you might want a travel agent to coordinate flights, transfers and hotels, ''Mr. Rothnie said.
 Among established lines, Royal Caribbean's Web site leads the pack, according to Keynote's research. Bonny Brown cited the site's clean look, easy online booking, clear pricing and smart use of images. Celebrity scored high for customer support, and Carnival for activity research. 
 Available since 1999 on the Royal Caribbean site, online purchases account for ''less than 10 percent'' of sales, said Barbara Shrut, a Royal Caribbean vice president who until recently was in charge of e-marketing. But Mr. Barry said he believed the cruise industry is quietly gearing up for online purchases, particularly the mass market lines. ''It's like a duck on the water,'' he said. ''You don't see much, but there's a lot going on under the surface.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Practical Traveler column last Sunday, about cruise line Web sites, misspelled the name of a London-based line offering bookings on its site and omitted the site's address. It is easyCruise, and its Web site is www.easycruise.com.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lasse Skarbovik)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (95%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRLINES (77%); SALES FORCE (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KEYNOTE SYSTEMS INC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%)

TICKER: KEYN (NASDAQ) (55%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (55%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (55%); SIC2141 TOBACCO STEMMING & REDRYING (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



404 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Q & A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Adding an Energy Surcharge to Rent

 BODY:

Q -- The lease I have with my tenant stipulates that utilities are included with the rent and that the rent shall remain at the same level for 24 months. We are now in the second year of that lease. 
 With energy prices rapidly escalating, can I add an energy surcharge to the rent? Paul Apfel, Cedarhurst, N.Y.

A -- ''Once a fixed-term lease is signed, a landlord may not add a surcharge to the rent unless the surcharge is authorized by the lease itself or agreed to by the tenant,'' said Mary Ann Hallenborg, a Manhattan lawyer who specializes in landlord-tenant issues.
If the apartment is rent-stabilized, Ms. Hallenborg said, the annual rent increases set by the Nassau County Rent Guidelines Board already account for increases in a landlord's fuel and utility costs. 
 If the apartment is not rent-regulated, she said, a landlord is free to account for such increases when negotiating a new rent when the current lease expires.

What Happens When Rent Hits $2,000 Under Regulation

Q -- My husband and I live in a rent-controlled apartment that now costs us $1,800 a month. Is it true that when the rent reaches $2,000 a month the apartment will be decontrolled and the landlord can then raise the rent to fair market value?
 We have lived in this apartment for 43 years, are in our 70's and live on a fixed income. Janet Dawe, Manhattan.

A -- Lucas A. Ferrara, a Manhattan real estate lawyer and editor of Landlord-Tenant Monthly, said that when the legal rent for an occupied, rent-regulated apartment is $2,000 or more, the apartment is eligible for deregulation only if the occupants' federal adjusted gross annual household income -- as reported on New York State tax returns -- exceeds $175,000 for two consecutive years.
 ''The law requires that the income of all persons who occupy the unit as their primary residence be considered,'' Mr. Ferrara said. 
 He noted, however, that even if a tenant meets the income threshold for two years running, and the rent reaches $2,000, deregulation is not automatic.
 ''A landlord is required to serve a tenant with an income certification form on or before May 1,'' Mr. Ferrara said, adding that if, upon the return of the form, the landlord believes the apartment is eligible for deregulation, he must file a deregulation petition with the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal no later than June 30 of that same year.
 If a tenant does not return the income certification form within 30 days, Mr. Ferrara said, the landlord can file the petition for deregulation, and the agency will ask state tax officials to review the tenant's tax returns. 
 ''If a landlord misses this window period, the process is delayed until the following year,'' he said, adding that the law does not exempt long-term occupants or the elderly on fixed incomes from high-rent, high-income decontrol.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (91%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RENT CONTROL (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PETITIONS (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); TAX LAW (71%); LAWYERS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



405 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: BLUEPRINTS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: It's a Waiting Room That Keeps Patients Busy

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
IT is a conundrum of medical care: although patients are the reason that doctors' offices exist, the patients' physical and psychological comfort is rarely considered in the design. 
 That is not true of the design of the 20-month-old Jay Monahan Center for Gastrointestinal Health, part of the New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Among its boldest reimaginings are a reception area resembling the portal of a spa, and a stylish waiting room replete with modern furniture, bamboo floors, iMacs and two walls of plasma television screens.
''Normally in big academic centers like New York hospitals, the space is very mediocre -- crowded waiting rooms, no aesthetics whatsoever, always clean but always very institutional,'' said Dr. Mark B. Pochapin, the center's director. ''You go because you think you're getting the top doctors.'' 
 But he added: ''You also feel very much like just a number, just a case. It was very important to us to change that.'' 
 ''Us'' has a celebrity component: the television anchor Katie Couric. Ms. Couric was a major fund-raiser for the Jay Monahan Center, named for her husband, who died of colon cancer in 1998 at the age of 42. 
 ''While he was sick,'' said Dr. Pochapin, who treated Mr. Monahan, ''one of the things Katie was doing was trying to get all of the pieces of his care together and keep track of everything from the nutritional to oncological aspects to X-rays.''
 Instead of being shunted from one crowded office to another, he said, she wanted ''some person or place she could go to where it all gets taken care of.'' 
 To accomplish that, care providers scattered throughout a sprawling medical complex had to be united under one small roof. Dr. Pochapin recalled the first time he saw the eventual space, at East 70th Street and York Avenue, across York from the hospital, on the ground floor of an ambulatory care building owned by New York-Presbyterian.
 ''We walked through and thought it was ideal,'' Dr. Pochapin said, ''because it was isolated enough from the hospital but close enough to bring everybody together when they needed to be, and there was a tremendous amount of light.'' But there were also plenty of drawbacks.
 Formerly occupied by a women's health clinic, the 3,500-square-foot space had not been renovated in 15 years. It had squat seven-foot ceilings and a tiny waiting room devoid of windows, which only the private offices enjoyed.
 Although a goal of the center was to stay small enough to provide hand-holding, the area was not big enough to comfortably accommodate the new center's doctors and other staff members -- 17 on site and 30 floating specialists -- as well as volumes of paper charts and a multipurpose waiting room triple the size of the old one.
 After some debate, all but one doctor agreed to switch to electronic medical records, saving huge amounts of room. (''There are some offices that need 3,500 square feet just for the paper,'' Dr. Pochapin said.)
 That space-saving move allowed planning to proceed on a new-generation waiting area, called an ''education center.'' The hospital's own studies had showed that inferior waiting rooms topped the list of patients' complaints about their care. 
 ''We really tried to deconstruct the traditional waiting-room experience,'' said Robin Guenther, an architect whose medical design firm, Guenther 5 Architects, was hired for the Monahan Center. The construction budget was $1 million, she said.
 Waiting should ''be more active,'' she said. This design seeks to allow people to continue with everyday activities or to learn more about their medical condition. Another goal, she said, was for the center to look like ''the product of human intention'' rather than an institution.
 Nearly every aspect of the center seems to have been considered from a patient's viewpoint, with the aim of blunting the tension-inducing cues of a typical doctor's office.
 A curved maple reception desk greets patients. Glass tiles in a soothing aqua palette fill the area below the counter, while swirls of pearlescent purplish-blue paint glimmer softly on the wall behind. Nearby, partitions of gouged white fiberboard, resembling the rippled surface of a cave, invite tactile exploration.
 The usual doctor's-office cacophony of ringing phones, scheduling and message taking is absent: secretaries are grouped elsewhere in a private soundproofed office, while noise from a small checkout alcove loses its way inside a short passage connecting the area to the reception desk. 
 The adjacent waiting area, hugely expanded from a cramped rectangle into a spacious serpentine shape, incorporates two walls of windows. Its modern club chairs, in inviting fabrics and bright, strong colors, are not yoked together in the depersonalizing bus-station style. Instead, they are scattered in conversational groupings that can be easily rearranged. 
 Bamboo floors provide visual warmth -- and can be cleaned with soap and water, so antiseptic-smelling cleansers are no longer required. There are no signs prohibiting eating, drinking or talking on cellphones -- all are permitted -- and patients can do research or check their e-mail on five iMac computers glowing atop sleek maple-and-walnut counters.
 Two walls of video screens, donated by General Electric, play educational videos or lighter fare like ''I Love Lucy.'' Most hours, a volunteer distributes bottled water, coffee or tea, while an education and outreach director circulates to answer questions. 
 The low ceiling was raised by a couple of inches after being stripped to its structural steel. A seamless sound-absorbing panel, covered in many places by wood slats, replaced much of the standard-issue ceiling tile. The variation adds both warmth and the illusion of height. 
 Even a memorial to the center's namesake was considered from a patient's viewpoint.
 ''In hospitals, you go around and you see the plaques that are exactly the same you would use for a mausoleum, and that gives you a bad message,'' said Peter Syrett, a principal at Guenther 5.
 Instead, a tribute wall of photographs of Mr. Monahan and his family, as well as letters from his children, celebrate ''the importance of a life,'' Dr. Pochapin said.
 The waiting area and an adjacent outdoor plaza, reached through connecting glass doors, double as a setting for educational and fund-raising events. (Donors paid for the entire center, and contributions continue to pay for services that are not covered by insurance, like nutritional and genetics counseling, education and social work.) Fund-raising is easier in the new space, Dr. Pochapin said, because ''people like to see a tangible place, meet people who are doing the research.''
 Patients, about 130 a week, move clockwise through the waiting room and exam rooms and can exit without retracing their steps. The flow eases congestion, maintains privacy and reinforces the perception of seamless patient-centered care, Dr. Pochapin said. 
 While budget constraints prevented altering the placement or size of the five exam rooms, important changes occurred inside. To quell anxiety at the sight of medical equipment, ''a lot of the medical stuff is sort of hidden away,'' Dr. Pochapin said. Each examination room is outfitted with maple cabinets and floors covered by a linoleum made of linseed, flax and wood, and a laptop computer is placed so that a doctor can take notes while maintaining eye contact with the patient.
 In the doctors' individual offices, a single desk no longer dominates. It is pushed to one wall, and conversations occur around a small round table. A high-tech conference room gives specialists a place to converge to discuss a specific case.
 Not every bell and whistle at the Monahan Center has proved successful. Patients generally decline the offer of a beeper when their doctor is running late, preferring to stay close by, in the waiting room. The laptops had to be tethered after a stranger posing as a patient removed Dr. Pochapin's from his office. (A good Samaritan returned it after buying it on the street.) And the facility is already looking for space to expand.
 THE center has attracted the attention of other medical providers, who often ask Dr. Pochapin for tours. A 330,000-square-foot ambulatory care center being erected across 70th Street by New York-Presbyterian, while not patterned after the Monahan Center, will reflect many of its central tenets.
 The Monahan Center is also part of a study by the nonprofit Center for Health Design in Concord, Calif. It is looking at the idea that stress-reducing medical environments lead to better results. 
 Ms. Guenther said the growing emphasis on design also made good business sense. 
 ''Like everyone else in the American economy, hospitals now have to deliver an experience,'' she said. ''Patients expect that the medical outcome will be competent, regardless of the hospital they choose. And while they're not necessarily qualified to make judgments about the relative excellence of medical treatment, they make a lot of judgments based on their experience when they walk through the front door.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Square Feet article last Sunday, about the design of the Jay Monahan Center for Gastrointestinal Health in Manhattan, referred incorrectly to a facility being erected opposite it on East 70th Street. It is a new center for ambulatory care and medical education, not for ambulatory care alone, and it is being built by Weill Medical College of Cornell University, not by New York-Presbyterian Hospital.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Jay Monahan Center for Gastrointestinal Health in Manhattan, patients can use computers, watch videos or ask questions of an outreach worker. (Photo by Jennifer S. Altman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); HOSPITALS (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); CANCER (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (75%); COLORECTAL CANCER (72%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (71%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



406 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2721 words

HEADLINE: Putting the Napster Genie Back in the Bottle 

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

DATELINE: San Francisco 

 BODY:
SHAWN FANNING turns 25 on Tuesday, and it's been a very long seven years since he wrote a little computer program that let him trade electronic music files with his dorm mates at Northeastern University in Boston, where he was a freshman. He called it Napster, after his nickname, and it quickly grew into an Internet phenomenon -- not to mention the music industry's bete noire until it was shut down by the courts four years ago.
 Now the public spotlight is turning back to Mr. Fanning, this time as a symbol of how big business and the disruptive force of the Internet just might find a way to get along. This month, Grokster, one of the file-sharing services that emerged after the original Napster vanished, stopped distributing its software and agreed to pay the record industry $50 million, which it has no prospect of ever raising. Grokster decided to give up on a legal battle that had effectively been lost when the Supreme Court unanimously decided in June that it and other file-sharing services could be held liable if people used them to steal copyrighted works. 
By year-end, a new version of Grokster will appear -- this one sanctioned by the record industry because it will use technology, built by Mr. Fanning, that requires file-swappers to pay for copyrighted material. In other words, Mr. Fanning, who let the genie out of the bottle when he created the copyright-busting Napster, is now selling a way to put the genie back into the bottle.
 His new company, called Snocap, has produced software that can enable music services to fulfill the original promise of Napster -- a community of dedicated fans exchanging a wide selection of music -- while monitoring the file-trading for copyrighted works. The new Grokster will still use peer-to-peer technology, which lets users download songs directly to one another's computers. But when a user tries to get a copyrighted file, Snocap can block the download or force the user to pay for it, depending on what the artist and label want.
 IF Snocap catches on -- still a very big ''if'' because only one file-sharing service has signed up to use the software -- it will vindicate Mr. Fanning's passionately held belief that if Napster had been allowed to live, it would have become a legitimate and profitable sales outlet for artists and music companies. After the original Napster closed, the name was sold to a new company that sells licensed music under paid subscriptions and does not use peer-to-peer technology. 
 ''Nobody has ever built a reliable peer-to-peer service, where people can really access all the music they want in one location,'' Mr. Fanning said. ''Once I got it into my head, I couldn't imagine the media space without one.''
 Yet curiously, at this crucial time for his young company, Mr. Fanning is pulling back from day-to-day operations and declining most opportunities to appear in public to champion it. Always painfully shy, Mr. Fanning says he wants to defer to the company's management, including a newly hired chief executive, Rusty Rueff, who had been a senior executive at Electronic Arts.
 In the meantime, of course, Apple Computer and other companies have built thriving, unquestionably legal music-downloading businesses. And others are trying to build authorized paid services using peer-to-peer technology.
 Mr. Fanning's vision is much more ambitious than these others. He doesn't simply want to impose fees for the same songs that are available through Apple's iTunes and other stores. He wants to create an open system that would allow anyone with music to share -- big labels and garage bands alike -- to register their works with Snocap and set the economic terms under which songs could be traded. Snocap would collect the fees, using software that listens to each song in participating file-sharing services, matching songs that listeners order with those in the registry and forcing users to pay the price the song owner demands.
 If this works for music, Snocap may ultimately serve as a template for resolving some of the thorniest problems facing all sorts of copyrighted material, according to Jonathan Spalter, a former Vivendi official who worked as Snocap's chief executive in 2003 and 2004; he left after differences with Mr. Fanning.
 ''They have a shot, but it's a nine-bank billiard shot and they have only one stroke of the cue to get it right,'' Mr. Spalter said. ''You need to get consensus from a firmament of major labels, independent labels, the publishers, courts, legislature, the peer-to-peer to companies, retailers and other actors. This is the ultimate, purest form of herding cats.''
 The record companies, meanwhile, have escalated their attack on digital piracy, suing file-sharing software makers and the people who share music and hiring white-hat hackers to pollute the file-sharing networks with songs that purport to be the latest hits, but actually contain only static or worse. 
 If any of these tactics have restrained piracy, the effect is modest. Album sales are 30 percent below their level the year when Mr. Fanning let Napster loose, and 10 times as many songs are downloaded from file-sharing services as are bought from paid services like iTunes. So it should come as no surprise that the record companies are starting to embrace Mr. Fanning's idea that peer-to-peer file-sharing services can be reconstituted as legal sales outlets.
 ''Many of the people on these networks are not so much there to get their music free, although some of them certainly do,'' said Edgar Bronfman Jr., the chief executive of the Warner Music Group. ''In the next year or two or three, we can develop legal services with the same availability of music, the same vibrant communities, that free services will not be so compelling.'' Last week, Warner became the last of the four major labels to agree to supply music to Snocap.
 It is still unclear how many users of those free peer-to-peer services will start to pay when software like Grokster starts to demand money for copyrighted songs. It is not that difficult to find so-called open source file-sharing software, which is developed by elusive networks of volunteers who may well be out of the reach of the recording industry's lawsuits. And Grokster users who don't update to the new version of the service will still be able to trade songs with one another free. 
 ''I don't know if someone can be successful transferring from regular, free file-sharing to paid file-sharing,'' said Thomas Mennecke, a news editor at Slyck, an online site for file-sharing users. ''If you are going to pay for a song, why not use iTunes, which has the Apple iPod coolness?''
 He doesn't see much impetus for hard-core users to start paying for their music. ''I only see file sharing getting bigger and better,'' he said. ''If you shut down the commercial guys, the open-source systems will always be there.''
 Snocap will not necessarily be the main beneficiary if legal file sharing takes off. The only service that has agreed to use its technology is Mashboxx, a start-up backed by Sony Music. It has agreed to buy the Grokster name and use it to sell a version of its service. Complicating this partnership is the fact that Mr. Fanning has a stormy relationship with the man who created Mashboxx, a loquacious former music publicist and file-sharing promoter named Wayne Rosso.
 Snocap still hopes to recruit other customers from the major file-sharing services, many of which are negotiating with the record industry to see if they can avoid being sued. Some services are simply shutting down and some are being courted by IMesh, which has its own approach to a legal peer-to-peer system.
 Mr. Fanning began working on what would become Snocap the day after the old Napster closed in September 2001. Gathering a few of his close friends and compatriots in a San Francisco music studio, he tried to figure out what went wrong and what to do next. He had been on an emotional roller coaster, becoming a hero to millions delighted with instant free music and then an archvillain to the music industry, even though he was pushed to Napster's sidelines by the series of grown-ups who tried to profit from his invention.
 In the end, Napster was the quintessential Internet company: it upended a huge and powerful industry without ever earning a dime itself. And after all the plans failed, all the lawsuits were lost, all the money was spent and all the outside managers departed, Mr. Fanning decided to try to get his revolution back.
 HE started over, working with Jordan Mendelssohn, a programmer who was an early Napster employee, and won the backing of Ron Conway, a Silicon Valley angel investor who had provided crucial early financing to Napster. He also hired two prominent lawyers -- John T. Frankenheimer of Loeb & Loeb in Hollywood and Fred Davis, son of the recording executive Clive Davis, in New York -- to persuade the record companies to cooperate with him, the person most closely identified with all their troubles. ''My job was to market the so-called Antichrist back to the music industry,'' Mr. Davis said.
 Executives at the major labels received Mr. Fanning's idea enthusiastically. After all, it was as if he had found a way to put a police officer and a cashier in the satchel of every shoplifter on the planet. But Snocap stalled nonetheless. Developing the software turned out to be much more complicated than Mr. Fanning had anticipated, and he could not win the cooperation of file-sharing companies. And despite the music executives' enthusiasm, negotiations with their lawyers dragged on for months. 
 As Mr. Fanning struggled, Andrew R. Lack, the former head of NBC who took over Sony's music operation in 2003, wondered if he could make peace with the users of file-sharing systems, and approached Mr. Rosso, the former president of Grokster. Mr. Rosso says Mr. Lack had an idea: Was it possible to let people try out songs free? What if they could get whole songs, not the 30-second samples available on iTunes, but require them to buy the songs they really liked? The response from most other file-sharing services was chilly, but Mr. Rosso thought enough of the idea to create a new service -- Mashboxx -- along the lines that Mr. Lack had outlined. Soon, he found that Snocap's technology offered the best way to identify copyrighted songs on the network. (Mr. Lack was not available to be interviewed for this article.)
 Unlike iTunes and other ''closed'' systems, where people can buy only what the retailer chooses to sell, Mashboxx is a true ''open'' peer-to-peer system that in theory can download any song from any computer that participates in a file-sharing network. This could include something that a garage band recorded by itself or a free release by an up-and-coming indie group. 
 If a Mashboxx user tries to download a song that has been registered as copyrighted in Snocap's database, however, Mashboxx will either block the download or substitute a free but low-quality version on which an announcer invites listeners to pay for a high-quality version without announcements if they like what they hear. The free version would expire after being played five times.
 Mr. Rosso says that this tests the theory that people use peer-to-peer, or P2P, file-sharing networks to try out songs, and that they will pay for music they like. ''It is the great hypocrisy leveler,'' he said. ''We will see if people use P2P to sample music or not.''
 Mr. Fanning and Mr. Rosso are now in a wary dance. Mashboxx and Snocap need each other, but their founders are mutually antagonistic. Indeed, Mr. Rosso is everything that Mr. Fanning isn't. Mr. Fanning is young, a gifted technologist, deadly serious about Snocap and terminally shy. Mr. Rosso is 56, a technological neophyte driven by opportunity rather than conviction, and a blue-ribbon publicity hound who once represented Harry Connick Jr. and Aerosmith, among others. 
 These days, Snocap's bustling offices fill a floor of an old warehouse building nestled between two skyscrapers in downtown San Francisco. Surrounding two dozen cubicles filled with programmers and dealmakers are a few conference rooms; a kitchen with free Twizzlers, gorp and soda; a computer room; and another small room with a foosball table and a set of Mr. Fanning's drums.
 ''I hate mornings,'' Mr. Fanning said as he arrived one bright day last spring, dressed in torn black jeans, a black ribbed pullover and gray sneakers, looking much as he did five years ago on the cover of Time magazine. He grabbed a Pepsi and wandered out to buy a sandwich for breakfast. Never a coffee drinker, he is trying to cut back on soda; at least he has downgraded from Red Bull.
 Now Mr. Fanning is on the verge of settling, somewhat reluctantly, into a more adult phase of his life. He left the house he shared with two buddies in Silicon Valley and moved into a loft on Potrero Hill in San Francisco with his girlfriend, who works at Apple Computer. 
 Neither she nor the neighbors are quite so accommodating as his old roommates when it comes to his desire to play drums and guitar; when he really wants to cut loose, he says he now has to visit a friend's music studio.
 When Mr. Fanning starts to explain the details of the complex software and business arrangements behind Snocap, his eyes glow with the intensity of many of the 20-something entrepreneurs of the dot-com boom. But he is living their dreams in reverse: first he revolutionized an industry, then he made the cover of Time and now he is figuring out the PowerPoint presentations for the business model.
 The heart of Snocap is its sophisticated registry, which will index electronically all the files on the file-sharing networks. ''Rights holders,'' which are what he calls musicians and their labels, will use the system to find those songs on which they hold copyrights and claim them electronically. Then they will enter into the registry the terms on which those files can be traded. It could be just like iTunes -- pay 99 cents, and you own it -- or it could be trickier: listen to it five times free, then buy it if you like it. Or it could be beneficent: listen to it free forever and (hopefully) buy tickets to the artist's next concert. Of course, the rights holders could also play tough: this is not for sale or for trading, and you can't have it.
 One of the more interesting aspects of the software Mr. Fanning has built is called ''missing masters.'' After a label sends Snocap all the music it currently publishes, the label's executives can use the software to see all the other tracks available from any particular artist. These are what Mr. Fanning calls ''gray tracks'' -- bootleg recordings made by fans at concerts or in secret by recording engineers in studios. By some counts there are 25 million unique files available on the file-sharing networks, and no more than two million available in authorized download stores.
 Some artists and labels may well want to quash these gray tracks, which many consider to be inferior versions of their work. But Mr. Fanning predicted that many would choose to make available -- and possibly profit from -- music that until now was simply contraband. ''There is a huge interest on the part of your fans in this stuff,'' he said, ''and it is already traded, if you don't make available, then you will hinder the growth of your artists' careers.''
 EVEN as he bubbles with these kinds of ideas, Mr. Fanning is rarely seen in Snocap's offices. Nor is he appearing much in public. He accepted an invitation to testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee in September, then backed out, people close to him said, because of his shyness. He says he is confident in Snocap's management and needs time to spend on his personal life.
 ''I'm trying to step back and look at the big picture,'' he said last month over a Perrier at his favorite San Francisco steakhouse. ''It has been seven years since I started Napster, and I didn't take a break when I started Snocap. That's a quarter of my life.''
 Moreover, he argued that the ideas behind Snocap were so powerful and inevitable that his second invention would eventually take on a life of its own, as Napster did -- albeit far more slowly. ''Ultimately,'' he said, ''people will recognize the value of what we have done.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 27, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart last Sunday with an article about online music file sharing was scaled incorrectly. Music sales on CD's and other conventional formats ranged from 0.2 billion to 1.2 billion units, not from 2.0 billion to 1.2 billion units.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shawn Fanning, who pioneered free online music sharing, has a new venture that will collect fees for songs. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Wayne Rosso, above, runs Mashboxx, the first file-sharing system to agree to use technology from Shawn Fanning's company, Snocap. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)
Snocap's management includes, from left, Shawn Fanning, the founder
Ali Aydar, chief operating officer
and Rusty Rueff, chief executive. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 7)Chart: ''Rise and Fall''The number of people sharing files over the Internet continued to grow even after the original Napster closed, while sales of recorded music declined. Cause and effect is hard to establish, but the music industry is seeking ways to make online file sharers pay for songs.Online file sharersGraph tracks number of average annual simultaneous U.S. users, measured in millions, from 2003 through October 2005.Music salesGraph tracks number of manufacturers' U.S. shipments, measured in billions, from 2000 through the first six months of 2005.(Sources by BigChampagne
 Recording Industry Association of America)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COPYRIGHT (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (68%) Music; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Suits and Litigation; Copyrights; Recordings (Audio); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Music; Biographical Information

COMPANY: NAPSTER INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%) Napster ; Grokster

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%)

PERSON: Shawn Fanning; Saul Hansell

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



407 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Why Vote?

 BODY:
I can't imagine a better paradigm of economics as ''the dismal science'' than Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt's article (Freakonomics, Nov. 6). I imagine that such an expert knows the exact value of the rose he gives his wife. He appraises its life expectancy, the cost of sending his secretary out to buy it and the value of the sunshine it may bring into his marriage. He knows the price of everything and the worth of nothing. 
 I am well aware of the insignificance of my vote. But I also know its significance. It signifies my pride in being an American. I shall continue to vote as long as I can get to the polling place. 

Leopold M. Karpeles
 Annapolis, Md.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%) Elections; Voter Behavior

PERSON: leopold m karpeles; Stephen J Dubner; Steven D (Prof) Levitt

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (50%) MARYLAND, USA (64%); MARYLAND USA (50%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



408 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Sleeping With the Devil

BYLINE: By MARY BETH NORTON. 
Mary Beth Norton is the author, most recently, of ''In the Devil's Snare: The Salem Witchcraft Crisis of 1692.''

 BODY:
WITCHFINDERS
 A Seventeenth-Century 
 English Tragedy.
 By Malcolm Gaskill.
 Illustrated. 364 pp. 
 Harvard University Press. $29.95.
ESSEX County. Multitudes of witchcraft accusations. Zealous magistrates and ministers. Pervasive gossip among pious Puritans about the devil's malevolent acts. Epidemic disease and economic disruption. A prolonged war waged nearby. The bare bones of the story seem very familiar to anyone knowledgeable about the circumstances of late-17th-century New England. 
 And yet ''Witchfinders'' is not another study of the 1692 Salem witchcraft crisis in Essex County, Mass. Rather, Malcolm Gaskill's thoroughly researched and well-written work examines its predecessor, the great witch hunt of the mid-1640's that began in Essex, England, as the civil war raged in the background. With the exception of a 1976 book that Gaskill, a fellow of Churchill College, Cambridge, pronounces ''a clever hoax,'' ''Witchfinders'' is the only modern full-length analysis of the tragic events of 1645-47 -- events largely instigated by the self-proclaimed ''Witchfinder General,'' Matthew Hopkins, who has subsequently become the stuff of legend. Informed by wide reading in 17th-century sources of all sorts, ''Witchfinders'' presents to 21st-century readers a vividly drawn portrait of an alien world in which bugs and mice could become Satan's messengers, women could credibly describe having sexual intercourse with the Devil and at least 250 people could be jailed for witchcraft.
 Matthew Hopkins was the son, brother and nephew of Puritan clergymen. Although he did not follow them into the church, he began waging his own war against Satan in his home village, Manningtree. Still in his early 20's, Hopkins allied himself with the like-minded John Stearne, of Lawshall, Suffolk, who was about a decade his senior. Stearne, visiting Manningtree on business, became involved in the case of Elizabeth Clarke, a local widow, who had confessed to associating with several unnamed witches. In March 1645 two Manningtree magistrates, Gaskill writes, ''at the stroke of a pen, unwittingly initiated the most savage witch hunt in English history'' by issuing a warrant authorizing Stearne to search for other witches. Stearne then enlisted Hopkins, and the two men began the campaign that would eventually encompass much of East Anglia.
 Stearne and Hopkins, sometimes working in tandem and sometimes independently, rode from village to village, town to town, usually at the invitation of local officials. They either started investigations of witchcraft or, more often, questioned women (and some men) already arrested for that crime. They were paid handsomely for their time, as well as being reimbursed for their expenses. Occasionally they returned to testify at subsequent trials, but more commonly they had moved on to other places long before the accused faced judges and juries.
 The techniques Hopkins and Stearne first employed with Elizabeth Clarke became their signature, repeated again and again in the years to come. They enlisted a group of women to search Clarke's body for the teats at which it was believed the devil's imps came to suckle; as almost always occurred, the women found unnatural marks near her genitalia. Then the searchers and others closely observed the suspect for several days and nights while they waited for the imps -- her ''familiars'' -- to appear. The widow, like the many who would follow her, was forced to sit on a stool and not allowed to sleep. Unsurprisingly, she eventually confessed that she had copulated with Satan and that he had sent her familiars, which the watchers later testified to having seen: creatures that resembled cats and dogs, a ferret, a toad and a rabbit. 
 What happened that night? Gaskill asks. His response is measured and certainly correct: ''a deluded woman, long suspected of witchcraft and now confessed, introduced two believers and the watchers to a menagerie of pets in her dark home, an enclosed space bristling with fear and expectation,'' circumstances more likely to produce ''sinister'' than ''innocuous'' explanations. In this case, as in others, Gaskill alludes sympathetically to the female sexual fantasies evident in confessions, to confessors' ''lament of age for vanished youth, yearning for intimacy and kindness, indulgence in heart-fluttering seduction and abandon.''
 Because the investigative techniques, the characteristics of the accused and the themes of confessions recurred continually through the two years of the witch hunt, Gaskill's comprehensive narrative is understandably yet tediously repetitious. His pages are populated by ever more villages and towns suffering economic distress and divided by loyalties to king and parliament, seemingly innumerable poor widows (along with a sprinkling of impoverished men in similar circumstances), neighbors with long-held grudges that manifested themselves in accusations, and judges and juries displaying varying degrees of credulity. Only rarely do readers encounter women whom Gaskill presents differently, those who might have used malefic reputations to cow their neighbors or who actively sought to control their own lives. One therefore wonders whether the witchfinders' perspective -- their search for victims -- has inordinately shaped that of the narrator.
 Even so, the book's virtues are many, among them Gaskill's superb evocation of the East Anglian landscape traversed by Stearne and Hopkins. He provides a useful account of how the writings of the Huntingdonshire cleric John Gaule and the pointed questions posed by some skeptical Norfolk gentlemen combined to end the witchfinders' power. And he closes with a thought-provoking conclusion about his story's similarities to witchfinding in Africa and India today. England's circumstances in 1645-47, he also suggests, are perhaps analogous to our own; ultimately, Gaskill declares, his is ''a tale about feeling anxious and vulnerable in an indifferent world'' rather than a saga of witchfinders and victims readily consigned to the past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WITCHCRAFT (90%); HISTORY (78%); ARRESTS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); LITERATURE (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); ARREST WARRANTS (65%); TESTIMONY (61%); JURY TRIALS (60%); JUDGES (60%); EPIDEMICS (57%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Mary Beth Norton; Malcolm Gaskill

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (72%) ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



409 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Old Slickery

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. O'NEILL. 
William L. O'Neill is a professor of history at Rutgers University.

 BODY:
ANDREW JACKSON
 His Life and Times.
 By H. W. Brands.
 Illustrated. 620 pp. Doubleday. $35.
Andrew Jackson was a narrow, passionate man who hated his enemies but loved the United States. This last would redeem his presidency to some extent. 
 Born on March 15, 1767, in northern South Carolina, Jackson joined the Revolutionary Army at the age of 13 and became a British captive. His mother secured his release but soon died, leaving him an orphan at 14. Although he had almost no education he became a lawyer by way of apprenticeships, and in 1788 accepted an appointment as solicitor, or prosecutor, for the frontier town of Nashville. 
 A rake, a gambler and a brawler in his youth, Jackson continued to duel with pistols into middle age. On the side he sold merchandise, traded slaves and speculated in land, racehorses and whatever came to hand, while also serving the new state of Tennessee in a variety of posts. Its officers elected him to head the Tennessee militia with the rank of major general, the job that made him famous. Despite his scant military experience, Jackson had a talent for command and proved himself to be a resourceful and pitiless Indian fighter. In January 1815 he handed the British a smashing defeat at the Battle of New Orleans, at once becoming the greatest American hero since Washington. Jackson won the presidency in 1828 on the strength of his military achievements.
 In writing ''Andrew Jackson: His Life and Times,'' the biographer and historian H. W. Brands chose to act purely as a biographer. Although he lists the many interpretive histories that have been written about Jackson and his age, Brands does not draw on them. Historiography can be dull, even to historians, but the literature on Jackson's era is especially lively, and features strong, radically different points of view. Leaving out this body of work means that Brands relates Jackson's story much as Jackson might have done if he had the advantage of hindsight and a little introspection. 
 Stripping away ''the times'' leaves us with Jackson the president. He accomplished three big things: preventing South Carolina from disobeying Congressional acts; forcing Indians into exile; and destroying the Bank of the United States. 
 In 1832 a convention in South Carolina, inspired by John C. Calhoun and other hotheads, ''nullified'' the tariffs of 1828 and 1832 and banned the collection of duties within the state. Jackson promptly denounced the nullifiers and began deploying men and resources to take military action against them. Faced with a belligerent Jackson and lacking support from any other state, South Carolina backed down. Senator Henry Clay brokered a compromise and South Carolina repealed its nullification. 
 Jackson's role in fighting Indians should be understood in light of the danger they posed on the frontier. But less easy to defend is the expulsion of Indians who had Americanized themselves, notably the Cherokees of Georgia who practiced agriculture, developed a written language and abided by the white man's law. But Georgians wanted their valuable lands and the state legislature enacted laws designed to force them to migrate west. John Marshall's Supreme Court declared the Georgia laws invalid, but Jackson ignored this decision. He too favored removing Indians from the United States -- for their own good, he insisted. Most Cherokees refused to leave until 1835, when Jackson sent troops who forced them at gunpoint to sign a treaty giving up their lands. Three years later they were driven along the ''trail of tears'' to the barren wastes of Indian Territory (today's Oklahoma). Thousands died during or just after this journey. Brands rightly condemns Jackson for his hypocrisy in maintaining that expulsion was a humane solution, although he qualifies this by saying that nearly all white people agreed with Jackson that no good alternative to his Indian policy existed.
 Jackson's third accomplishment concerned the Bank of the United States. It was America's premier financial institution and the notes it issued were the country's most stable paper currency. Jackson hated the bank for its power, its independence (all federal receipts had to be deposited in the bank, which was largely owned by private investors) and because it issued paper money. Jackson wanted gold and silver to be the only currency. After a long struggle he prevented the bank from being rechartered in 1836 and directed that federal funds be deposited in state banks. The effect was to inflate the currency tremendously as state banks issued a flood of notes leading to an orgy of land speculation. Jackson stopped this by giving the federal budget surplus to the states and ordering that public lands had to be purchased with gold or silver coins or paper backed by specie. These steps led to the Panic of 1837 and a five-year recession, the nation's worst to that date.
 Jackson's presidency left a lot to be desired, though this is not how Brands views it. Expelling the Cherokees, and most of the other ''Five Civilized Tribes,'' from their lands east of the Mississippi may have been popular but remains a crime against humanity. Destroying the bank deprived the country of a valuable institution for which Jackson provided no replacement. Only in the nullification crisis did he display both leadership and good judgment. 
 A founder of the Democratic Party, Jackson was hot-tempered, arrogant, violent and a ferocious partisan who introduced the spoils system into government. Brands's biography is dramatic; but unlike George Washington, another and greater man with humble roots who became an entrepreneur, general and president, Andrew Jackson makes your blood run cold.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ARMIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); ORPHANS (76%); BARRISTERS & SOLICITORS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); CELEBRITIES (72%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HISTORY (69%); LITERATURE (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: William L O'Neill; Andrew (1767-1845) Jackson; H W Brands

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



410 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Life Outside New Orleans Alters Life Inside It

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
TALK to the people trickling back here, and it becomes apparent that before the hurricane, many had about as much experience living elsewhere as Ignatius J. Reilly, the protagonist in one of the seminal novels about New Orleans, ''A Confederacy of Dunces,'' who had set foot outside this exceedingly rooted city only once (and rued doing so).
 But after tasting life elsewhere, they are returning with tales of public schools that actually supply textbooks published after the Reagan era, of public housing developments that look like suburban enclaves, of government workers who are not routinely dragged off to prison after pocketing bribes. 
Local leaders have realized for weeks that they must reckon with widespread anger over how they handled the relief effort. But it is dawning on them that they are also going to have to contend with demands from residents who grew accustomed, however briefly, to the virtues of other communities.
 Many evacuees seem to be arriving with less tolerance for the failings of a city that under its glitzy makeup has long had an unsightly side. They do not want New Orleans to lose its distinctive character -- after all, that is one reason they are back and vowing to rebuild. But they say their expectations have changed.
 ''What's wrong with our school system, and what's wrong with the people running our school board?'' asked Tess Blanks, who had lived here all her life before fleeing with her husband, Horace, to the Houston area, where they discovered that the public schools for their two children were significantly better. ''Our children fell right into the swing of things in Texas. So guess what? It isn't the children. It's the people running our school system.''
 It was not unusual before the hurricane to hear complaints about the New Orleans schools, which have long been among the nation's worst, but they never snowballed enough to produce sweeping change.
 Same with public housing, which was managed so poorly that the federal government took it over a few years ago. And of course, the local graft, which seems to have become, like the gumbo, a local hallmark.
 It may be that much of the population of New Orleans -- one of the nation's poorest cities -- was too preoccupied with making ends meet to band together to insist on improvements.
 The city's easygoing nature and still-obvious charms could have contributed to the complacency. In ''A Confederacy of Dunces,'' by John Kennedy Toole, the eccentric and wastrel Reilly spends much of his time wandering from job to job in the French Quarter, and he refers to the city as ''a comfortable metropolis which has a certain apathy and stagnation.''
 Or it could be that many residents, like Reilly, may not have known any better. Cities are often naturally transient. New Orleans before the hurricane was not.
 Of 70 localities in the nation with populations of at least 250,000, New Orleans ranked second in the percentage of its American-born population born in the state -- 83 percent, according to the census. (Santa Ana, Calif., was first; Las Vegas last.)
 Consider the Lower Ninth Ward, a mostly poor, black neighborhood wiped out in the flooding. The census found that 54 percent of its residents had been in their homes for 10 years or more, according to the Greater New Orleans Community Data Center. Nationally, the figure was 35 percent. 
 Terrence Fitzmorris, an associate dean and local historian at Tulane University in New Orleans, can trace his ties to the city back to the Civil War. He recalled that when he moved temporarily after the hurricane to Lafayette, La., 135 miles away, he considered himself something of a ''neophyte'' in the ways of other cities.
 ''My own experience was, well, this is pretty good,'' he said. ''The city of Lafayette seems to be moving ahead, it seems to be building roads, picking up the garbage, educating its children. It seems to have jobs. There is a life different and perhaps better than you had been living before.''
 HE said he and his wife had mixed feelings about returning, though they concluded that their hearts were here. ''You would hope that people's experiences would translate into actions, that we will not accept it any longer,'' he said.
 The changing climate has not gone unnoticed by elected officials. Opening a special legislative session this month, Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco hinted at it when she appealed to lawmakers to approve a state takeover of nearly all the New Orleans public schools. ''Families returning with new education experiences will come home with higher expectations,'' she declared. The takeover was approved last week.
 Mayor C. Ray Nagin, who had styled himself a reformer before the hurricane, also acknowledged the new perspective.
 ''New Orleanians are very territorial people,'' Mr. Nagin said. ''Some people had never left town. So they had no perspective of what was better from the standpoint of quality. They are going to come back with a different perspective of what should be and what could be. And I think that is going to put pressure on all of us as elected officials.''
 That would be just fine for returning residents like Sebastian Taylor, who once looked favorably upon his children's education because he was sending them to what was considered one of the city's best public schools. Then he and his family ended up in Baton Rouge, a place not necessarily famed for its schools. 
 ''They offered more aid to the children, as far as school supplies, time and attention,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''The teachers and the staff were more willing to have meetings with the parents. If my kids are going to go back to public schools again, New Orleans is going to have to do better.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A New Accountability -- Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans, left, at a town hall meeting this month faced sharp questioning from Norman Bartholomew, a laid-off city employee. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TEXTBOOKS (71%); SUBURBS (70%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (56%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: Clifford J Levy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



411 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Anonymity: Who Deserves It?

BYLINE: By Byron Calame

 BODY:
JOURNALISTIC integrity issues involving confidential sources have given The New York Times plenty of headaches in recent years. So it's not surprising that the paper's anonymous sourcing guidelines have been getting major attention from editors.
 Acting on recommendations from the independent committee created in the wake of the Jayson Blair fiasco, the paper announced a revamped policy for the use of confidential news sources in February 2004. One major change: Before a confidential source makes it into the paper, at least one editor has to know the source's name.
After an internal committee on credibility came up with more recommendations early this year, Bill Keller, the executive editor, further tightened the guidelines for the use of anonymous sources in June. The most notable change, at least for me: Readers are to be told why The Times believes a source is entitled to anonymity -- a switch from the previous practice of stating why the source asked for it. 
 These two changes created the potential to profoundly alter the role of confidential sources in The Times's newsroom. Since Mr. Keller set some first-year goals in his latest changes -- such as making the use of anonymous sources the ''exception'' rather than ''routine'' -- and we're nearly halfway there, it seems like a good time to assess the state of confidential sourcing at the paper.
 There clearly is work to be done. A Page 1 article just three days ago, for instance, offered no explanation for attributing to ''a senior administration official'' the assurance that President Bush and two other White House officials hadn't told Bob Woodward about Valerie Plame Wilson. Mr. Woodward had disclosed earlier in the week that a current or former Bush administration official had told him Ms. Wilson worked at the C.I.A.
 The logic of explanations can be flawed. Take the Aug. 2 Times article about the Bush agenda at the United Nations, which was tied to the arrival of the newly appointed United States ambassador, John R. Bolton. Its second sentence reads: '' 'Most of the reforms sought by the United States are well on their way to completion,' said a senior administration official, speaking anonymously to avoid undercutting the rationale for the Bolton appointment.''
 An e-mail from David Hemmer of Toledo, Ohio, hit my computer at 8:32 a.m. on the day the article appeared. ''How absurd that The Times considers this an acceptable reason to use an anonymous source,'' he wrote. ''It is the quote itself which undercuts the rationale for the appointment, whether the official is willing to own up to it or not.''
 While many sources have long sought anonymity to disparage an opponent or enemy, the current White House can be found praising the president's decision-making anonymously. In a July 6 Times article about the year's first Supreme Court vacancy, ''a senior White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity because most staff members are not authorized to speak about the vacancy'' said that ''at the end of the day, the president is going to decide this based on those principles, not from any pressure from the groups.''
 ''What possible reason related to news can justify running this quote?'' Jay Ackroyd of New York asked me in an e-mail message. ''It's just spin.'' It also makes me feel uneasy. Puffery with the protection of anonymity can be used in pursuit of ends as devious as those sought through unattributed negative comments.
 But there are explanations for granting anonymity that serve readers by making a fairly candid case. An Oct. 29 article out of Washington, the mother church of confidential sourcing, delved into whether a letter from two Democratic senators that was seen as signaling opposition to certain possible nominees to the Supreme Court would also apply to Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. The article continued: ''Three Democratic aides, speaking on condition of anonymity to avoid reprisals from their bosses, said they believed the same would apply to Judge Alito.''
 Or take a July 27 article about the relocation of 50,000 soldiers to United States bases from Germany and South Korea: ''The relocation, to be completed by 2008, was described by two Pentagon officials who have worked on the project and were granted anonymity so they would describe the changes before an official announcement expected later this week.'' Straight shooting, I would say.
 I like the Pentagon article's use of ''granted anonymity'' -- wording that makes clearer to the reader that The Times was indeed deciding the two officials were entitled to remain anonymous. Unfortunately, it is sparsely used. If Mr. Keller and Allan M. Siegal, the standards editor, were to make ''granted anonymity because '' the default language for explanations, I think it would quickly spur reporters to take greater care in negotiating deals with confidential sources. It's the same basic idea that Gregory Brock, Washington news editor, had raised with my predecessor earlier this year.
 With the reporter and the paper clearly responsible for explaining the reason for granting anonymity, there's a good chance that less central and more casual anonymous quotes will dry up faster. This would help limit confidential sourcing to the kinds of coverage where it's vital: national security, intelligence, investigative articles and classic whistle-blower projects.
 A fundamental part of the effort to tighten up the explanations for allowing anonymity was The Times's 2004 move to require that at least one editor be told the identity of any confidential source. That enabled Mr. Siegal to establish a compliance system that clearly has gotten the attention of reporters and editors throughout the news department, a half-dozen of them have told me.
 In general, Mr. Siegal randomly chooses at least three articles each day where anonymous sources are cited, and asks the relevant department head for the name of the editor who knew the identity of the source. Mr. Siegal doesn't ask for the identity, but he expects the editor to be prepared to answer his questions. He mentioned several in the Aug. 28 public editor column: Why was the material permitted to be used anonymously? What was the rationale behind granting anonymity? What attempts were made to get the source on the record?
 One result: ''There's a daily conversation on sources,'' said Mr. Brock in the Washington bureau. Douglas Jehl, who covers national security and intelligence from the bureau, finds that the process ''discourages casual use'' of confidential sources and becomes ''a barrier against source inflation,'' or describing an unnamed source in overly grandiose terms.
 ''We sometimes see awkward and uncomfortable descriptions in the paper of why we allowed material to be anonymous,'' Mr. Siegal acknowledged in August. He called it a ''healthy indication, really, that people are struggling with the issue.'' I agree, and I believe the sometimes-clunky explanations do make reporters and editors consider more carefully the value of the information provided.
 This process should also help the paper achieve two supremely important and more ambitious goals: getting more information on the record and fuller disclosure of the motivation of the confidential sources. I was encouraged by two comments Mr. Jehl made last week about the new requirements.
 ''More reporters are going back to get more on the record,'' Mr. Jehl said. He also said they are ''finding on-the-record quotes outside the government.''
 Since I believe confidential sources should and will remain an essential tool in the best newsrooms, helping readers understand the motivation of those unnamed informants is a goal worth maximum effort at The Times. Explanations of why The Times is granting anonymity can also contribute insights into the motivation of sources. Here's an explanation in a Nov. 2 article from Washington about the debate over the treatment of detainees that probably does a better job of shedding light on motivation than on the need for anonymity.
 Noting that factions within the administration have clashed over the revision of rules for the treatment of detainees, the article offered this anonymous comment: '' 'It goes back to the question of how you want to fight the war on terror,' said a senior administration official who has advocated changes but, like others, would discuss the internal deliberations only on the condition of anonymity. 'We think you do that most successfully by creating alliances.' '' 
 Anonymous sourcing can be both a blessing and a curse for journalism -- and for readers. The system that Mr. Keller and Mr. Siegal have put in place has the potential to help The Times reap the blessings and minimize many of the curses. But their commitment to top-level oversight, and to providing sufficient editing attention to ignite those ''daily conversations'' about sources, has to be sustained long after the recent clamor over the paper's use of anonymous sourcing has faded away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%) News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (66%) Byron Calame; Bill Keller; Allan M Siegal

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (51%) OHIO, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



412 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: What Britain Can Tell France About Rioters

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
AFTER months of unease, a humdrum incident in a hardscrabble part of town turns suddenly sour. Pretty soon, the police and the poor are locked in street fighting. Gasoline bombs fly. Cars burn.
 This was Brixton in south London in 1981 -- not much different from the suburbs of Paris in 2005.
Twenty-four years ago, riots in the mainly black district of Brixton were regarded as a turning point in Europe's struggle to absorb its former colonial subjects, just as this month's French riots may become a moment of decision about how France treats its own immigrants and their descendants. 
 But if there is a lesson the British would gladly teach the French, it is that riots can only begin a revolution in race relations; a quarter-century from now, the issues may still be unresolved. After Brixton, Britain adopted policies that in some ways echoed America's response to its own urban racial disturbances. They encouraged Britons to embrace ethnic diversity, although they fell short of American-style affirmative action, which Britons see as illegal discrimination. 
 Two and a half decades later, the results are still ambiguous, and today Britain is slipping into a new debate -- over whether identity politics is a good idea at all. Maybe, some people are saying, immigrants should be stripped of their distinct ethnic identities, rather than made to feel more comfortable in them. That sounds remarkably like the way the French already think. 
 In Brixton in 1981, as in the suburbs of Paris today, young black people resented routine police searches; discrimination and unemployment had left ethnic minorities with a profound sense of grievance.
 There, too, said Jenny Bourne, a researcher at the not-for-profit Institute of Race Relations, it was the children and grandchildren of a first generation of immigrants who were ''rebelling against the fact that they had nothing in society.'' 
 There, too, a political elite seemed dumfounded when rage erupted into violence. More than 300 people were injured and 83 buildings and 23 vehicles were damaged over the course of several nights. 
 These days, Britain has the look -- far more than many European nations -- of a land that has come to accept its ethnic diversity. Black and Asian journalists anchor and report the television news. Parliament has a sprinkling of nonwhite lawmakers. The 30,000-plus Metropolitan Police in London, once virtually all white, has slowly become 7 percent nonwhite. 
 ''No country in Europe could be more proud of its multicultural experiment than Britain,'' the privately-funded Institute of Race Relations' director, A. Sivanandan, said in a posting on the organization's Web site (www.irr.org.uk).
 Indeed, the notion of multiculturalism has come to differentiate Britain from France, where the official policy on assimilation aims to encourage only French norms of behavior and discourages public displays of newcomers' religious and ethnic identity.
 Last year, for instance, France banned the wearing of Islamic head scarves in classrooms. In contrast, this year a British court supported the right of a teenage student to wear an Islamic robe to school. 
 But the British experiment is still new, and the specter of terror attacks by Islamists has recently made it clear that it is frail.
 After the bombings in July in London's transportation system, carried out by Muslims raised in Britain, many began to question whether 24 years of striving for multiculturalism had failed, producing only enclaves of ethnic difference that had become seedbeds of terrorism. Some politicians, looking to France for inspiration, proposed that they test immigrants for knowledge of the English language and of British ways, as a step on the path to assimilation. 
 Trevor Phillips, the head of the Commission for Racial Equality, which enforces antidiscrimination laws, has said Britain's ethnic groups are growing apart rather than closer together. ''We are sleepwalking to segregation,'' he said. 
 Still, it is commonly accepted here that the Brixton riots in April 1981, followed by more violence in London and Liverpool that July, at least jolted Britain into recognizing that something was badly wrong in the way it treated its ethnic minorities. 
 The shock was followed by bold words and plans. A retired justice, Lord Scarman, produced a report that year that ''racial disadvantage is a fact of current British life,'' and that ''urgent action is needed if it is not to become an endemic, ineradicable disease.'' He called for local authorities to launch a ''direct coordinated attack'' on racial prejudice and said this ''inevitably means that the ethnic minorities will enjoy for a time a positive discrimination in their favor.''
 Today, though, there is wide disagreement on exactly what effect the report has had. The government lent new support to community centers, ethnic festivals, the use of other languages in documents and the like, but many experts argue that the real impact of such programs was to encourage people to remain in their own religious and cultural comfort zones, rather than become more integrated in the society. Mr. Phillips, of the racial equality commission, said it has produced the equivalent of ghettos around temples, mosques or ethnically homogeneous neighborhoods. 
 Ludi Simpson, an expert on social statistics at Manchester University, takes an opposite view: that ''these multicultural policies have had an effect.'' A study he published last week says the number of ethnically mixed neighborhoods in Britain increased slightly between 1991 and 2001.
 Still, it has been a bumpy ride. Brixton erupted again in 1985, and violence pitting Asian and white youths against each other seized several northern cities in 2001. 
 Today, amid fear of radical Islam, the current British government is beginning to sound less like the American champions of multiculturalism and more like the French. 
 ''Coming to Britain is not a right,'' Prime Minister Tony Blair said in August, just after the July bombings in London. ''And even when people have come here, staying here carries with it a duty. That duty is to share and support the values that sustain the British way of life.'' Those who instigate hatred or violence ''have no place here,'' he said.
 British public attitudes are also unclear. A BBC poll last August found that 62 per cent of Britons thought that ''multiculturalism makes Britain a better place to live.'' But 58 per cent believed, as many French people do about France, that ''people who come to live in Britain should adopt the values and traditions of British culture.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Fire Last Time -- The rioting and arson in the Brixton district of London in the spring of 1981, which left cars burning in rubble-strewn streets, seemed eerily like that in Paris last week. (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (91%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); RELIGION (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TERRORISM (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); POLITICS (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); JOURNALISM (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (62%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (60%) Demonstrations and Riots; Bombs and Explosives; Islam; Transit Systems; Terrorism; Subways

PERSON: Alan Cowell

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (93%) FRANCE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%) Great Britain; Great Britain; London (Eng); France; Paris (France)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



413 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; LONG ISLAND AT ITS BEST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: So Many Books, So Many Ways to Snuggle Up With One

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

 BODY:
WHETHER it is with a novel, a memoir or a history tome, winter is a favorite time to curl up by the fireplace or snuggle under the covers with a good read. Some try to plow through a book in one sitting; others stretch the reading out for months. Here are the reading habits and current book lists of some notable Long Islanders.

NELSON DEMILLE, NOVELIST -- Mr. DeMille writes fiction, but he reads nonfiction. The author of a dozen novels, including ''Nightfall,'' ''Plum Island'' and ''The Gold Coast,'' he hasn't read a contemporary novel in at least 10 years.
 ''I was a history major in college and I haven't gotten out of that bad habit,'' said Mr. DeMille, a Garden City resident. ''A good history read really reads like a novel.''
His good read of the moment is Tom Holland's ''Rubicon: The Triumph and Tragedy of the Roman Republic.'' It piqued his interest because of the HBO series ''Rome.'' 
 Mr. DeMille said he likes to read sitting in front of a roaring fire. 
 ''I have a La-Z-Boy recliner and I am in heaven,'' Mr. DeMille said. He keeps turning the pages from after dinner until midnight. 
 ''It's better than the TV yelling at you,'' he said. ''It's just quiet and pleasant. It's my favorite part of the day.''

SUSAN ISAACS, NOVELIST, ESSAYIST AND SCREENWRITER -- Ms. Isaacs keeps the books she is reading stacked on her night stand at her Sands Point home.
 Her pile includes ''The Assassins' Gate: America in Iraq'' by George Packer and Jonathan Safran Foer's novel ''Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close.'' 
 ''I keep them upstairs so when I am working I don't find some excuse to start reading,'' said Ms. Isaacs, whose books include ''Any Place I Hang My Hat,'' ''Long Time No See,'' and ''Compromising Positions.'' In her downstairs office she is working on a novel about a woman who was fired from the C.I.A. in 1990, never knew why and suddenly has a chance to find out.
 Ms. Isaacs said she reads a lot of nonfiction. 
 ''When I am writing, anybody really good, any voice is seductive,'' she said. ''It's like a siren thing, 'Come here sailor,' and so I don't read that much fiction.''
 One of the most glorious reading experiences Ms. Isaacs said she ever had was on a rainy day sitting on her glassed-in porch. ''The rain was coming down hard on the copper roof and I was rereading 'Emma' by Jane Austen,'' Ms. Isaacs recalled. ''My cat was in my lap purring and I thought: 'Well, this is heaven. This is how good life can be when it's good.' '' 

CAROL SILVA, NEWS 12 ANCHOR -- After years of not having time to read anything beyond the newspapers that she has to comb through at work, Ms. Silva started allowing herself a half-hour of reading time each evening. That is, provided the sixth-grade science project and the eighth-grade math homework that her children need to finish get done first.
 ''Now, because my kids are 11 and 13, I am able to do some reading at home,'' said Ms. Silva, who also coaches soccer and is a Girl Scout leader. ''I have this new hobby. It's a new world for me.''
 Ms. Silva said she likes to read spiritual, uplifting books by authors like Wayne Dyer and Deepak Chopra. 
 After finishing the latest Harry Potter book, Ms. Silva recently picked up ''Tender Bar,'' a memoir by J. R. Moehringer, a Los Angeles Times reporter who grew up in Manhasset and hung out at Publican's, a bar on Plandome Road that is now called Edison's. 
 Years ago, Ms. Silva said, she played on a softball team sponsored by Publican's and frequently went there after the games. 
 ''I am reading it slowly because I don't want it to end,'' she said. ''That's what I tend to do with books that I really love.'' 
 While her window for reading is not that big -- Ms. Silva gets up at 3:15 a.m. -- she finds it relaxing. ''It's much better than television, not that there is anything wrong with television, but I am around television all day so it is a nice break,'' she said. 
 She tunes out the chatter of her children and tunes into the book. ''It's like I'm sitting in a cafe somewhere,'' she said. ''It takes me away.'' 

SHIRLEY STRUM KENNY, PRESIDENT OF STONY BROOK UNIVERSITY -- Ms. Kenny said she gets lost reading novels on Sunday afternoons. She is in the middle of John le Carre's ''Constant Gardener,'' but her all-time favorite books are ''Huckleberry Finn'' and ''Tom Jones.''

STEVE LEVY, SUFFOLK COUNTY EXECUTIVE -- Mr. Levy is among those who don't find time to read for pleasure at all. He said he hasn't read a novel since it was an assignment in college.
 ''I'm a policy wonk, and I like real-world stuff,'' Mr. Levy said. 
 His reading usually revolves around reports, newspapers, periodicals and other nonfiction material. ''I'm reading just about every second of the day that I'm not talking,'' he said. 
 Just the other day, Mr. Levy said he was reading a booklet prepared by his emergency response team to find out the status of the county in case of emergency.
 ''It's voluminous,'' Mr. Levy said. ''But you've got to go through it.'' 
 He estimates his daily reading in the hundreds of pages. Lately that included going over the county's capital and operating budget. 
 ''It's a great prescription for insomniacs,'' he said. ''It's detail oriented, but it is so essential for me to be more informed than the next guy or you feel you are at a disadvantage.''
 Even when Mr. Levy goes on vacation his reading materials remain the same.
 ''Frankly, I enjoy it,'' he said. ''Even when I was a little kid, while classmates were reading 'Treasure Island' I was reading The New York Times Almanac.''

TOM SUOZZI, NASSAU COUNTY EXECUTIVE -- Mr. Suozzi just finished reading David McCullough's ''1776,'' a history of the American Revolution. He relished the story of the battle of Long Island and New York, Washington's retreat to New Jersey and his ''daring crossing of the Delaware on cold, raining, sleeting Christmas eve,'' Mr. Suozzi wrote in an e-mail message.
 ''All were against him, resources were dwindling, couldn't trust his closest confidants, was betrayed by top lieutenant -- talk about demoralized, but he toughed it out -- won the revolution and changed the world,'' Mr. Suozzi wrote. 

MARK BROXMEYER, CO-FOUNDER OF FAIRFIELD PROPERTIES -- Mr. Broxmeyer relaxes by reading fiction in the library of his Upper Brookville home. ''I enjoy thrillers,'' he said. ''It is getting away from reality.''
 One of his favorites is ''The Lion's Game,'' by Mr. DeMille.
 Mr. Broxmeyer, who is national chairman of the Jewish Institute for National Security Affairs, also reads an enormous amount about security. He is in the midst of ''Hatred's Kingdom: How Saudi Arabia Supports the New Global Terrorism,'' by his favorite nonfiction author, Dore Gold.

DANIEL THOMAS MORAN, SUFFOLK COUNTY POET LAUREATE -- Dr. Moran reads a lot of poetry but has started Peter Quinn's novel, ''Hour of the Cat.''
 ''I tend to find it hard to read novels because I want to read them from start to finish,'' said Dr. Moran, who is a dentist with a practice on Shelter Island. ''I always have to look for a large amount of time when I can bury myself in it.'' 
 Dr. Moran said he intends to spend his week off between Christmas and New Year's reading Samuel Menashe's ''New and Selected Poems'' and ''Women on War,'' an international anthology edited by Daniela Gioseffi.
 He will also be reading poems by other Suffolk poets for an anthology due out next spring. So far he has selected 135 poems from 80 local poets.

RICHARD M. KESSEL, CHAIRMAN OF THE LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY -- Mr. Kessel plans to plunge into ''Big Russ & Me,'' a memoir by Tim Russert, the managing editor and moderator of ''Meet the Press'' and anchor of ''The Tim Russert Show.'' Mr. Kessel said he worked with Mr. Russert when he was press secretary to former Gov. Mario Cuomo. When he ran into Mr. Russert at a function recently, the political analyst told him to read his book.
 ''I figure I better listen to Tim Russert and read it,'' said Mr. Kessel, who likes to read lying down on the couch of his Merrick home, his cats sleeping on top of him. 
 ''When my cats are on top of me I can't fall asleep while I read the book,'' he said. Besides, the television will be on, tuned to a football or basketball game.
 But he is a slow reader.
 ''When I take a book and decide to read it, I know it is going to be months before I can get through it,'' Mr. Kessel said. 

GORDON KORMAN, CHILDREN'S BOOK AUTHOR -- Mr. Korman's first book grew out of an assignment in seventh-grade English class. Now he is the author of 60 children's books, including ''Son of the Mob,'' ''The Stowaway Solution'' and ''Now You See Them, Now You Don't.''
 Mr. Korman is as prodigious in his reading as his writing. He is immersed in ''Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explains the Hidden Side of Everything,'' a study of how people get what they want or need, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. And he is reading ''The Greatest Escape Stories Ever Told: Thirty-Five Unforgettable Tales,'' edited by Darren Brown, as part of his research for his own book series about children becoming fugitives. 
 ''I am not a sequentially monogamous reader,'' Mr. Korman said. ''I always have something going for pure pleasure and I always have something that I am reading to support something that I am working on.''
 Mr. Korman also likes books on tape. He is listening to Jonathan Safran Foer's ''Everything Is Illuminated'' while driving to talk to different groups about his work. 
 But Mr. Korman does most of his pleasure reading late at night, after his wife and three young children have gone to sleep. 
 ''It's one of the few things that I do that is just for me,'' Mr. Korman said. ''It's my time.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two writers who like to read nonfiction are Nelson DeMille, top left, and Susan Isaacs, top right. For Daniel Thomas Moran, left, poetry is the book of choice. Carol Silva, right, tries to read for half an hour each evening. (Photographs above and at right by Katrina Hajagos for The New York Times)
Steve Levy, above, reads only ''real-world stuff,'' while Gordon Korman often juggles several books at a time. (Photo by Ed Betz for The New York Times)
Shirley Strum Kenny's favorites include ''Tom Jones.'' When Richard Kessel, below, reads, his cats keep him company. (Photo by Maxine Hicks)
Mark Broxmeyer, top, enjoys thrillers. Tom Suozzi, above, recently finished a book about the American Revolution. (Photo by Dan Neville/The New York Times)
(Photo by Dierdre Brennan for The New York Times)
(Photo by Katrina Hajagos for The New York Times)
(Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); HISTORY (73%); DISMISSALS (71%) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (57%)

PERSON: Nelson Demille; Susan Isaacs; gordon korman; carol silva; Shirley Strum Kenny; Steve Levy; Thomas R (County Exec) Suozzi; mark broxmeyer; Daniel Thomas Moran; Richard Kessel; Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (53%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



414 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: A Victory for the Obvious

 BODY:
The recent opinion by Judge Thomas C. Platt of Federal District Court in Central Islip that the Shinnecocks of Southampton are really and truly an Indian tribe was received by some tribe members with sardonic gratitude.
 ''All these years I thought I was a Mexican,'' Eugene Cuffee said in Newsday. Mr. Cuffee, like many other Shinnecocks, can trace his roots on Long Island back to the 1700's.
Any group that has met to elect a government every year for at least, oh, 212 years, as the Shinnecocks have, would seem to have a credible claim on existing. In recognizing this, Judge Platt showed exquisite deference to the obvious. 
 We wish other people would be so inclined. We feel certain that an honest, reality-based discussion of the Shinnecocks' struggle for economic self-sufficiency would leave the tribe and its neighbors in a much better situation than the one they are in now: regularly trading insults and threats and meeting one another in court over the tribe's plan to build a casino in Southampton. Unless all sides in this depressing battle decide to get real, the thunderheads of litigation will be rumbling over the East End for years to come, and everybody will get soaked.
 Judge Platt's unusual ruling short-circuited the normal route to federal tribal recognition. The Shinnecocks have been seeking such status from the Bureau of Indian Affairs since 1978, and a decision had not been expected for several years. 
 But even though federal law allows Congress or a judge to intrude on the bureau's turf and to grant a tribe's petition for recognition, it would be unwise to conclude that Judge Platt has put the Shinnecocks on a fast track to casino riches. There remain big hurdles to overcome. The Bureau of Indian Affairs keeps an official list of recognized tribes, and the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act says that only the tribes on the list get to build casinos. The bureau seems to work at two speeds -- slow and slower -- and it is unclear when or whether it will ever get around to listing the Shinnecocks.
 There remains, too, the issue of the tribe's chosen casino site, which is not on the reservation and is now embroiled in litigation over whether the tribe can legally build there. Complicating everything is the tribe's sweeping legal claim on large swaths of its ancestral lands in Southampton, which includes some of the most exclusive and thus most jealously defended real estate in America. 
 Senator Charles Schumer urged the Bureau of Indian Affairs last week basically to ignore what Judge Platt said. That was unhelpful. He and other casino opponents -- an ardent group that includes just about every elected official for miles around -- would do better to try the calm the waters instead, to accept the good sense behind the judge's opinion and to do more to recognize and support the Shinnecocks' legitimate efforts to secure their economic future.
 The tribe, smartly, had a low-key response to the ruling, largely reserving comment and choosing not to heighten the confrontational mood. But it could do much more. In the spirit of clear-eyed realism set by Judge Platt, the Shinnecocks could make a welcome contribution to this discussion by acknowledging that their opponents' arguments about the traffic, noise, pollution and other environmental and social problems a casino would bring are well-founded. It is painfully obvious that a Hamptons casino would be a problematic venture, and the tribe is not doing itself any favors by denying that. 
 As Kevin Gover, a professor of Indian law at Arizona State University and a former assistant secretary of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, has pointed out, Indian tribes generally do not succeed in forcing casinos on unwilling communities. It would be hard to imagine a community less willing than the East End of Long Island. There is a way out of this impasse, but Casinohampton is not it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); CASINOS (90%); GAMING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PETITIONS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%) 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS (54%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (50%) Thomas C (Judge) Platt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Southampton (NY); Hamptons, the (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



415 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: They Appraise Finer Points Of the Diamond 

BYLINE: By DAVID SCHARFENBERG

DATELINE: GREENBURGH 

 BODY:
IT was in Kansas more than 30 years ago that Bill James, a boiler-room attendant at a Stokely-Van Camp canning plant, took up the cause of debunking some of baseball's conventional wisdom. Taking documents and books to work every day -- as a profile in The New Yorker recalled a couple of years ago -- Mr. James pored over arcane statistics, eventually proving that starting pitching has no impact on attendance, among other things.
 By the fall of 2002, when he accepted a job as senior baseball operations adviser for the Boston Red Sox, he had long since left Van Camp behind and written many books on the sport. Some of his most important ideas -- that walks merit high praise -- had even begun to penetrate the citadels of professional baseball.
But in a culture that still revered the hunches of tobacco-chewing managers and the whispers of veteran scouts, Mr. James's number-crunching approach to the game, known as sabermetrics, retained a certain outlaw quality. So when he finally strolled into the inner sanctum of the Red Sox, baseball nerds around the world rejoiced. 
 Some of the loudest cheers came from the ranks of the Society for American Baseball Research, or SABR (pronounced saber), founded in Cooperstown, N.Y., in 1971 and now based in Cleveland. In fact, it was in homage to the society that Mr. James, a member, coined the term sabermetrics.
 SABR, which says it has 7,000 members in the United States, Canada, Japan and England, provides a home for the sort of person who could spend hours discussing the finer points of the Yankees' finances or reminiscing about the contributions of the center fielder Richie Ashburn to the Philadelphia Phillies' Whiz Kids team of 1950.
 This month, 16 members of the Westchester Baseball Discussion Group, an unofficial SABR chapter, gathered around an oval conference table at Greenburgh Town Hall to discuss those very topics.
 The attendees, many of them silver-haired retirees, make no claim to the kind of influence wielded by Mr. James and the other founding fathers of sabermetrics. Indeed, several even eschew talk of ''win shares,'' ''value over replacement player'' and other obscure statistical measures, preferring old yarns about players with nicknames like Pee Wee and Dizzy.
 ''The image of SABR is a bunch of geeky numbers crunchers,'' said Clifford Blau, 46, a retired accountant who serves as the group's coordinator. ''Most people in SABR are not like that.'' 
 Yet whatever the topic, the group's conversation always rises above the idle chatter of the casual fan.
 The group formed in 1999, after a meeting in Brooklyn of SABR's New York City Casey Stengel Chapter brought together a handful of Westchester fanatics. 
 This core group, deciding that it had plenty more to talk about, arranged meetings that, these days, take place the first Thursday of the month. They tend to focus on matters of regional interest: the dearth of doubles on Mickey Mantle's resume; the baseball legends buried in Westchester (Babe Ruth among them); and, of course, the wound that will not heal -- the Brooklyn Dodgers' move to Los Angeles in 1958.
 No arcana are too arcane for the group: In the opening moments of the meeting this month, Bob Mayer, 60, a retired J.P. Morgan Chase executive from Putnam Valley, opened a small red suitcase to reveal a series of photographs of the Wallkills, a semipro team that played in Middletown, N.Y., as early as the 1860's.
 But the discussion group ventures beyond New York baseball from time to time, inviting authors and former ballplayers to lecture on hardball happenings the world over. On this particular evening, members heard from Fran Zimniuch, a Philadelphia sports author whose most recent book, published this year, is ''Richie Ashburn Remembered'' (Sports Publishing LLC).
 Ashburn, a Hall of Fame member, played 12 seasons with the Philadelphia Phillies before finishing his playing career with the Chicago Cubs and the notoriously awful New York Mets team of 1962. After retirement, he worked as a Phillies radio and television broadcaster for decades; he died in 1997 after a heart attack.
 Mr. Zimniuch spoke fluidly of Richie Ashburn's playing days: his .308 career batting average and his famous throw to home plate, on Oct. 1, 1950, that cut down Cal Abrams of the Brooklyn Dodgers and helped the Phillies clinch their first pennant in 35 years. 
 But the raconteur's favorite tales seemed to revolve around Ashburn's storied, occasionally off-color announcing career. Once during an on-air discussion of his playing days, the author said, Mr. Ashburn noted that he used to take his bat home during a hitting streak and sleep with it. ''In fact,'' Mr. Zimniuch recalled his saying, ''I've slept with quite a few old bats in my day.''
 The author's story drew a few chuckles from the all-male crowd. But the evening's true star was Vince Gennaro, 54, a retired PepsiCo executive from Purchase who joined the discussion group about two years ago. Mr. Gennaro often takes Danielle, his 18-year-old daughter, to the meetings. But as a Fordham University freshman, she was home writing a paper on Major League Baseball's steroid policy that night.
 Raised in Wayne, N.J., Mr. Gennaro grew up rooting for the Yankees teams that cut a mighty swath through the baseball universe in the 1950's and early 60's. By the time he reached business school, he had combined his love for the game with a passion for economics, devising a formula to calculate the precise financial value of professional ballplayers. In 1979 that effort won him a short burst of fame in the pages of The Sporting News.
 After a brief stint as an owner of the St. Louis Streak, a women's professional basketball team, Mr. Gennaro focused on his corporate career and set his baseball tinkerings aside.
 Now, five years into retirement, he has taken up his hobby again, with a vengeance. In fact his work may well turn into a second career. He says he has had preliminary discussions with a handful of major league teams about consulting on potential trades and free-agent acquisitions.
 But with a post like the one Mr. James has with the Red Sox still beyond reach, Mr. Gennaro turned his attention to the discussion group this month, offering a lecture with the provocative title ''Is Steinbrenner Cheap?''
 His lecture, a heady swirl of complex statistical modeling and ambitious revenue projections, made a strong case that the Yankees' principal owner, renowned (and reviled) for his prodigious payroll, could afford to pony up even more for player salaries.
 There were questions, of course, about Mr. Gennaro's calculations. Some wanted to know if he had factored in the team's share of revenues from Internet broadcasting. Others wondered if Mr. Gennaro had accounted for the depreciation value of the team's players.
 But David Binhak, a more traditional fan who had arrived wearing a hat that read ''Edgemont Geezer Game 2004,'' was in no mood to parse the numbers. He shook his head and flashed a smile at a visitor.
 ''Some of these guys are really cerebral,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: From Bob Mayer's suitcase, an extensive baseball memorabilia collection, including a photograph and uniform from a Peekskill team and items related to Ken Singleton, who began his career with the Mets. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Fran Zimniuch, heading the table, talked to the Westchester Baseball Discussion Group. A page, below, from Mr. Zimniuch's book ''Richie Ashburn Remembered.'' Vince Gennaro delivered a lecture called ''Is Steinbrenner Cheap?'' (Photographs by Alan Zale [below right] and Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%) 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (91%); NEW YORK METS (59%) society for american baseball research; Boston Red Sox

PERSON: David Scharfenberg; Bill James

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (68%); ENGLAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



416 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: He's Moving Up (And Moving Out, Too)

BYLINE: By DICK AHLES

 BODY:
IN his 22 years, Ryan Bingham has run for office four times. He was elected sergeant-at-arms of his college fraternity, and in Torrington High School he won a seat on the student council and was president of the Young Republicans.
 And now, only a few months out of college, he is about to become the new mayor of Torrington, beating the two-term incumbent by 224 votes on Election Day. 
Mr. Bingham will move into the mayor's office on Dec. 5, but first things first: he needs to move out of his mother's basement and find a place of his own. 
 ''There were questions about my age, but I guess I was able to convince them I'd be a good candidate,'' Mr. Bingham said in an interview. ''I said young people have done well in politics around the country and that I'd be an energetic candidate. I promised I'd work hard and told them I loved Torrington.''
 Mr. Bingham asked the Republican Town Committee in Torrington to endorse him, telling the party that he wanted to revitalize downtown. The committee, which had not elected a mayor in a decade, obliged, although party leaders were also concerned about his age.
 ''His youth was a factor not in his favor, but it was not an overwhelming factor,'' said Gerald Zordan, chairman of the Republican Town Committee. ''He had a certain leadership attitude, a take-command quality that we liked, and he was willing to listen. We thought that was important. There were several other candidates -- all older -- but we thought Ryan could win.''
 Then something truly unexpected happened. Mr. Bingham won. He defeated Owen Quinn, 52, the Democratic incumbent, on Nov. 8. Daniel Pullium, chairman of the Democratic Town Committee, said Mr. Bingham's age was irrelevant to the voters.
 ''The electors went to the polls and decided to make a change,'' he said. ''That's the way it happened.'' He said Torrington voters were unhappy with property taxes, as are voters across the country.
 Mr. Bingham has lived in Torrington for most of his life and his family is well known in the community. His mother, Anne Ruwet, is a state representative for Torrington.
 ''My grandfather, Joe Ruwet, was in the Legislature for many years and my mother is now in her second term,'' Mr. Bingham said. ''That helped.'' 
 Ms. Ruwet said she knew his election would be a long shot.
 ''But I also thought that when people got to know him, he'd get their support,'' she said ''Toward the end of the campaign, I detected enthusiasm for Ryan from older voters. They liked him, they were rooting for him and yes, they get out and vote.''
 Except for working in his mother's campaigns, Mr. Bingham gained his principal preparation for the mayoral race from political science courses he took at Marist College in New York.
 One of his professors, Martin Shaffer, remembers Mr. Bingham as ''a solid student who was very likable, a quality successful politicians have to have.''
 Mr. Shaffer taught Mr. Bingham how to apply research methods in political science. ''But that was when he was a sophomore or junior,'' Mr. Shaffer said. ''I must say I didn't think of him as a potential mayor. I do remember he had a sense of humor and asked good questions.''
 Mr. Shaffer said that a couple of Mr. Bingham's fellow political science students helped him in the campaign. ''They'd call me every so often to discuss what they were doing,'' he said.
 What they were doing was campaigning hard and knocking on doors. Mr. Bingham said he knocked on at least 6,000 doors to get his message across. He put great emphasis on what he saw as a lack of progress in economic development, despite a recent victory for Mr. Quinn.
 Last year the state agreed to build the new Litchfield County Courthouse in Torrington -- the old one is in the Town of Litchfield -- and was conducting environmental impact studies on three potential sites. On Election Day, the state announced it had approved all three sites, but that wasn't enough to give Mr. Quinn the victory. 
 The campaign also focused on some issues that were very local. Mr. Bingham said the mayor was inaccessible, and to prove the point, he held a news conference in the home of a resident who complained that he received no response from the mayor when he called to complain about a traffic light that was not working. The mayor, in news reports, called the news conference sophomoric. Mr. Quinn did not return several telephone calls seeking comment.
 Mr. Bingham's party is outnumbered by both registered Democrats and unaffiliated voters, but he said he believed that overconfidence caused many Quinn supporters to stay home on Election Day, while Mr. Bingham's campaign brought his supporters out. About 44 percent of the city's registered voters went to the polls.
 Is Mr. Bingham the youngest person ever elected mayor of a Connecticut city? Christopher Collier, who was state historian from 1985 to 2004, said that that would be difficult to determine, but he knows of no one who was that young. He recalled that former Gov. John Rowland was elected to the General Assembly in 1980 at age 23, then to Congress at 27.
 ''When someone that young is elected, you usually hear of him later unless the first election was a fluke,'' Mr. Collier said. 
 Now comes the hard part for Mr. Bingham. He said that supervising department heads old enough to be his parents or grandparents will be challenging. ''But I intend to get to know their job functions and their issues,'' he said. ''I will ask a lot of questions and listen.''
 Mr. Bingham also said that he was not thinking about his political future.
 ''My priority is Torrington,'' he said. ''I know that sounds like political talk, but it's the truth.'' 
 Except for the renewal of downtown, he said he had not outlined a detailed program.
 As a recent college graduate earning $11.75 an hour as a caregiver with the Central Connecticut Association for Retarded Citizens, living at home was an economic necessity. The mayor is paid $80,000 a year, enough to get Mr. Bingham out of the basement and into a condominium.
 ''I had an apartment off campus during my last two years in college, so having a place of my own won't be anything new,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ryan Bingham, 22, will take over as the mayor of Torrington on Dec. 5 after beating a two-term incumbent by 224 votes. (Photo by M. J. Fielder for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) 

PERSON: ryan bingham; Owen (Mayor) Quinn; Dick Ahles

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Torrington (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



417 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: A British Sports Car, Made in Bridgeport

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
AC CARS, a British auto manufacturer that has been building sports cars since 1901, will open its first plant in the United States in Bridgeport next summer, state and city officials announced on Tuesday. 
 The plant, which will cost the company about $4.5 million, will occupy 4,000 square feet in what is now a vacant building on the city's east side on Maple Street near the Pequonnock River. It will employ about 140 people.
The Locomobile, a steam-powered car, was built in the same building in the early 20th century.
 Alan Lubinsky, the chairman of AC Cars, which built the AC Cobra (which spawned the Shelby Cobra) in the 1960's, said the cars that would be made in Bridgeport -- the Ace, the MkVI and the Mamba -- would be new models. He said they would be ''high-grade sports cars'' ranging in price from $95,000 to $150,000. 
 Mr. Lubinsky said the company planned to open dealerships to sell the cars in major United States cities next year. Because the cars will be built by hand, he said, he needs a skilled work force. Mr. Lubinsky said Bridgeport was a good location for the plant.
 ''It is relatively close to New York,'' he said. ''It has a port and other transportation routes nearby. Because there is an aircraft industry in the area, there are highly skilled workers who have used technology that is similar to what we use.
 ''And there is a significant market for our cars in that part of the country.''
 Mr. Lubinsky said he expected the plant to produce 40 cars next year and as many as 800 a year in five years.
 The State Department of Economic and Community Development has proposed lending the plant $1.5 million. Such a loan needs the approval of the State Bond Commission. 
 John M. Fabrizi, the mayor of Bridgeport, said it was too early to determine how much the plant would generate in taxes.
 ''This is phenomenal news for the city and the state,'' he said. ''It's jobs, manufacturing, economic development, a cleaning up of the landscape and an expansion of the tax base. This exemplifies the progress that is going on here.'' 
 Gov. M. Jodi Rell praised other state officials for helping put the deal together.
 ''We welcome AC Cars to the family of Connecticut manufacturers, and we will team up with them to ensure long-term growth and success,'' she said in a statement.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Renderings of the AC MkVI sports car, one of the models that AC Cars of England will begin building next summer in Bridgeport. About 140 people will work there. (Photos by AC Cars)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SPORTS CARS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); APPROVALS (72%) 

ORGANIZATION: ac cars (co)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (50%) alan lubinsky; Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (58%) Bridgeport (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



418 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: SESSION EXPOSES POLITICAL RISKS INSIDE CONGRESS

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; David D. Kirkpatrick contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
It was a bitter and fitting final note for a discordant Congress.
 The ugly debate in the House on Friday over the Iraq war served as an emotional send-off for a holiday recess, capturing perfectly the political tensions coursing through the House and Senate in light of President Bush's slumping popularity, serious party policy fights, spreading ethics investigations and the approach of crucial midterm elections in less than a year.
Capitol Hill was always certain to be swept up in brutal political gamesmanship as lawmakers headed into 2006 -- the midpoint of this second presidential term and, perhaps, a chance for Democrats to cut into Republican majorities or even seize power in one chamber or the other. 
 The ferocity of the fight in the House over a measure to withdraw American troops from Iraq shows that the war may command the high ground in the coming electoral contest. And the course of events in Iraq -- whether a new government takes hold, whether violence continues, whether American troops are still committed in large numbers and being killed by the scores each month -- is likely to be of prime political consequence here. 
 But when lawmakers return next month they face other immediate challenges that also carry substantial political risks. Some are matters related to the war, like the continuing debate on the treatment of detainees in the campaign against global terrorism. Others are the kind of domestic pocketbook issues that Congress must deal with every year -- including contentious tax and spending measures -- but have been impossible to resolve this year, even with one party in control of both houses.
 Representative Mark Foley, Republican of Florida, said he thought the war debate was worthwhile because it sent a reassuring message to troops in Iraq. But he found the tone ''absolutely unnecessary, demeaning and potentially destructive.''
 ''We have so many huge problems, and it is frustrating to somebody like myself when we are reduced to partisan fire with bazookas,'' said Mr. Foley, who added that the House was as polarized as he had seen it during his decade in office.
 Indeed, issues like overhauling Social Security, changing the tax code, dealing with illegal immigration or addressing high energy costs were often overshadowed -- and sometimes put aside -- because of the continuing debate over the war and its costs. As members of Congress returned Saturday to their home districts, it seemed that the fallout from Friday night's showdown would remain a hot topic, at least for now.
 Among developments that have knocked Republicans badly off course and provided opportunities for Democrats, who still have problems of their own: The botched response to Hurricane Katrina. The indictment of Representative Tom DeLay. Soaring fuel costs. A failed Supreme Court nomination. Federal charges against a vice-presidential aide in a case related to prewar intelligence. Growing public unease about the war and its death toll. Off-year election victories by Democrats. 
 The litany has members of Congress taking stock of their own political fortunes and acting accordingly.
 ''Bad poll numbers on your side unite your opponents and divide you a little bit,'' said Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, a man in the eye of the Congressional storm as he fills in for Mr. DeLay in trying to hold House Republicans together.
 Both of the responses cited by Mr. Blunt were on display this week in an unusually messy Congressional windup. United Democrats forced House Republicans to look solely to their own membership to win approval of spending and budget measures that carried a political price given their reductions in spending on an array of social programs -- cuts ready-made for campaign attacks. 
 As a result, some Republicans chose to part company with their colleagues. Twenty-two defectors joined with Democrats to send a major health and education spending bill to a stunning defeat, the first such loss in a decade for the take-no-prisoners Republican majority. 
 Fourteen Republicans opposed $50 billion in spending cuts over five years despite major concessions by their leadership to win moderate support. They acted partly out of fear that a vote for the cuts would expose them to Democratic political attacks, a fear well founded. Within hours of the vote, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee sent out news releases to the districts of 50 lawmakers who backed the measure to make sure voters back home heard that their representatives had ''blindly rubberstamped'' the leadership's plan.
 The rising political animosity was evident in the tone of the House debate on the fiscal bills and Iraq. The chamber rang with name-calling, taunts, ridicule and jeers. The exchanges over the war after Representative John P. Murtha, Democrat of Pennsylvania, called for a rapid withdrawal of troops from Iraq were poisonous as bottled-up sentiment on the conflict boiled over. Some lawmakers saw it as a new low.
 ''We can do better,'' Representative Tom Osborne, Republican of Nebraska, scolded his colleagues.
 The troop withdrawal measure, brought forward by Republicans to put Democrats on the spot, was defeated, 403 to 3, late Friday night.
 ''It is a reality that no one is finished debating the war,'' Representative Jack Kingston of Georgia, vice chairman of the House Republican Conference, said Saturday.
 But he said Republicans forced the vote out of frustration with Democratic tactics. ''We had just had it with Democrats running around saying President Bush lied. It was time for us to call their bluff,'' he said.
 Representative Rush D. Holt, Democrat of New Jersey, called Friday night ''a sad spectacle.''
 He said the effort to embarrass Mr. Murtha would do more to galvanize than dissipate critics of the war. ''If those who say 'stay the course' want to attack the character of people like Jack Murtha or question the patriotism of anyone who is raising questions about the war, then they are going to have a fight on their hands, and that was apparent last night,'' Mr. Holt said.
 ''If in the months ahead when somebody goes back to write the history of the war in Iraq,'' he added, ''they will point to the Murtha statement as a key moment in changing course.''
 Representative Tom Tancredo, a Colorado Republican who was involved in a heated floor exchange with Representative Harold E. Ford Jr., Democrat of Tennessee, attributed much of the vitriol to sleeplessness because of the late nights of the contentious budget fight. ''Add to that the emotional nature of the issues we were debating and the fuse was lit,'' Mr. Tancredo said.
 The atmosphere and progress in the Senate, often the graveyard of legislation, were noticeably better than in the House. Republican senators set their sights lower on spending cuts and approved their budget bill weeks ago. They were able to attract significant Democratic support for tax cuts and even had a bipartisan vote pressing the administration to move more aggressively to secure Iraq to allow a troop withdrawal.
 But the Senate has serious divisions of its own. Just a few months ago, it was on the brink of a historic rules showdown over judicial filibusters, a subject that could resurface should Democrats choose to block Mr. Bush's Supreme Court nominee, Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. Democrats also infuriated Republicans by forcing a closed-door session on the use of prewar intelligence, and ill feelings linger over that episode.
 Though Democrats see political openings, they have handicaps. The battle over Mr. Murtha's proposal showed that the party remained troubled over its approach to the war in Iraq, aware of vulnerabilities on national security issues and the role of Democrats in approving the use of force in Iraq. Democrats have yet to produce their own policy argument for why they should be awarded control of the House and Senate, preferring to concentrate for now on exploiting the Republican struggles.
 And Republicans do not have easy days ahead. When the House and Senate return in December, they will have to reconcile differing budget bills or face the humiliating prospect of falling short of the cuts sought by conservatives. 
 What may be equally troubling for Republicans is the filing on Friday of a criminal conspiracy charge against a former senior Republican House aide, Michael Scanlon. Mr. Scanlon was once a spokesman for Mr. DeLay and was a partner of Jack Abramoff, the lobbyist who is the subject of a federal investigation and had close ties to some House Republicans. The charges hint at potential legal exposure for lawmakers who were wined and dined by the two, adding to Republican ethics cases.
 Republicans acknowledge that recent months have been trying. But they think they can hold off Democrats with the advantages of incumbency and by producing legislation that appeals to their conservative base and the business community while propelling what they say is a thriving, underappreciated economy. 
 Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of New York, chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said he remained confident of the outcome of next year's elections. ''We're going to be in the majority,'' Mr. Reynolds said. 
 Others say the political future may be out of the hands of either party.
 ''I think the maneuvers of this week probably aren't going to help either side in the election,'' said John J. Pitney Jr., professor of government at Claremont McKenna College in California. ''What's really going to matter is what happens on the ground in Iraq. If there is good news out of the ground in Iraq, then Republicans will benefit. If there is bad news, then they will have even deeper problems.''
 ''Bombs in Baghdad,'' Mr. Pitney said, ''are going to have a lot more impact than speeches in Washington.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: As acting majority leader, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri is in the eye of the Congressional storm, trying to hold Republicans together.
 Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and a security officer after a closed-door meeting on Friday of House Republicans. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); IMMIGRATION (84%); REFUGEES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); INDICTMENTS (76%); ETHICS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); NAVIES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); TERRORISM (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Election Issues; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba); Prisoners of War; Social Security (US); Taxation; Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

PERSON: ROY BLUNT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Carl Hulse

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CUBA (74%) United States; Iraq; Afghanistan; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



419 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; THE FINE PRINT: The Spending Bill; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: Bill Authorizes Private Purchase Of Federal Land

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON and FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: DENVER, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Private companies and individuals would be able to buy large tracts of federal land, from sagebrush basins to high-peak hiking trails around the West, under the terms of the spending bill passed Friday by a two-vote margin in the House of Representatives.
 On the surface, the bill reads like the mundane nip and tuck of federal mining law its authors say it is. But lawyers who have parsed its language say the real beneficiaries could be real estate developers, whose business has become a more potent economic engine in the West than mining.
Under the existing law, a mining claim is the vehicle that allows for the extraction of so-called hard-rock metals like gold or silver. 
 Under the House bill passed Friday, for the first time in the history of the 133-year-old mining law individuals or companies can file and expand claims even if the land at the heart of a claim has already been stripped of its minerals or could never support a profitable mine. The measure would also lift an 11-year moratorium on the passing of claims into full ownership. 
 The provisions have struck fear through the West, from the resort areas of the Rockies like Aspen and Vail here in Colorado, to Park City in Utah, which are all laced with old mining claims. Critics say it could open the door for developers to use the claims to assemble large land parcels for projects like houses, hotels, ski resorts, spas or retirement communities. 
 And some experts on public land use say it is possible that energy companies could use the provision to buy land in the energy-rich fields of Wyoming and Montana on the pretext of mining, but then drill for oil and gas. 
 ''They are called mining claims, but you can locate them where there are no minerals,'' said John D. Leshy, who was the Interior Department's senior lawyer during the Clinton administration. Mr. Leshy said the legislation ''doesn't have much to do with mining at all.'' 
 ''It has to do with real-estate transfer for economic development,'' he said.
 But supporters of the bill, including Representative Jim Gibbons, Republican of Nevada, argue that critics like Mr. Leshy are missing the point of the legislation, and that allowing more mine-claim lands to be purchased would be an economic boon to rural communities that often struggle in the boom and bust cycle of mining. ''Not only is this rhetoric false, it is an affront to the rural American families whose livelihoods depend on sustained economic development,'' Mr. Gibbons said in a written statement.
 Debate over the bill, with its echoes of the West's old and thorny relationship with mining, has created some strange bedfellows. In Montana, hunting and fishing groups have rallied to fight the measure, fearing that it could reduce public access to treasured trout streams. The Jewelers of America, a trade group for retailers, has denounced it as well, fearing a backlash by consumers.
 In Colorado, one question centers on the ''fourteeners,'' as the state's string of 14,000-foot peaks are known. Public access to three of the peaks about two hours from Denver was closed this summer by owners of mining claims who -- unbeknownst to most hikers -- control sections of popular trails to the summits. Hiking groups are concerned that if those sections can be expanded by the owners, many more mountains could be closed. 
 Many major environmental groups, meanwhile, seemed distracted during the buildup to Friday's vote, though some, like the Wilderness Society and Earthworks, lobbied heavily against the changes in the mining law.
 But with limited political capital to spend, many of the groups concentrated this fall on getting Republican support for eliminating from the House version of the spending bill those provisions that would have opened the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, known as ANWR, to energy exploration.
 The Sierra Club and other lobbying groups were successful in that battle and on another provision that would have allowed new offshore drilling. But their credit was apparently used up when the mining provisions arose.
 ''You got 22 Republicans to fall on their swords on ANWR,'' said Richard Hoppe, the communications director of the Izaak Walton League of America, a fisherman's group. ''Those 22 are unlikely to fall on their swords for mining.''
 Gauging the impact of the bill, however -- and the volume of transfers that may occur -- is a complete guess, most land experts say. In some cases, lawyers say the current language in the bill, which is likely to be altered somewhat by a House-Senate conference committee, is vague and would almost certainly lead to court challenges. 
 Environmental groups, looking to the database of mining claims created by their colleagues at the Environmental Working Group, say private owners could gain title to 5.7 million acres of federal forests, rocky promontories and grasslands. 
 The bill's supporters put the number at a minimum of 360,000 acres, but do not include in that figure claims that expand the boundaries of current private holdings. 
 But none of that diminishes the anxiety in places like Pitkin County, Colo., where some of the nation's wealthiest people live on the steep mountain slopes of Aspen, and where a vacant lot can easily sell for $2 million. There the House bill is perceived as a direct threat to the green and cosseted open-space lifestyle that is the community's pride.
 ''Aspen is surrounded by mining claims,'' said Dorothea Farris, a member of the county commission, which sent a letter to Colorado's Congressional delegation earlier this week denouncing the bill as a ''devastating'' threat. ''You come down the ski slope, and the face of the mountain you see, Smuggler Mountain, is all old mine claims. We have tried to protect wildlife and open space, and this will fragment it.''
 Mining claims are strange legal beasts, rooted in the frontier era of homesteading and largely unchanged by the passing of the years. In most other countries, a miner petitions the government for permission to mine on public lands. 
 But under the General Mining Law of 1872, which underpins the House bill, people or companies can essentially raise a hand and declare that the silver or gold or copper under the earth is theirs. The claim is then considered a legally defensible right, though since 1994 Congress has barred claims from passing to full legal ownership, a process called patenting. The House bill would end that moratorium. 
 Mr. Leshy, the former Interior Department lawyer, and other experts say that perhaps 300 million acres of public land -- almost all of it in the West -- remains open to the filing of mining claims. And while the House bill appears to exempt specifically any new mining in national parks and wilderness areas from conversion of claims into ownership, other land experts say the issue is less certain because of language elsewhere in the bill that says claimants with ''valid existing rights'' may now be able to exercise those rights to patent their claims.
 ''What does 'subject to valid existing rights' mean?'' asked Mat Millenbach, who oversaw public lands in Montana as the director of the Federal Bureau of Land Management until his retirement in 2002. ''To me it means if you have a valid claim, say in Death Valley National Park, I would claim it's a valid existing right, and I would take it to patent.''
 An executive branch lawyer and geologist advising Republicans on the House Resources Committee said anxiety about the bill was overstated because the hurdles for proving a mine claim and moving on to full ownership remained high.
 People or companies filing for or buying mining claims would have to prove that the land contained mineral deposits, though they would no longer have to show that these could be mined at a profit, said the lawyer, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to speak to the press. 
 Since mineral deposits are relatively scarce, he added, the amount of land involved would also be modest -- certainly, he insisted, not the millions of acres the bill's opponents claim.
 Mining industry officials said that if the new owners were then to use a mine claim for other purposes, say for building condominiums, the Interior Department could file a lawsuit to revoke the transaction as a deal done under false pretenses.
 ''They'd have to be willing to defraud the U.S. government,'' said Carol Raulston, a spokeswoman for the mining industry's trade group, the National Mining Association.
 How often such challenges by the federal government arise is another question. The executive branch lawyer acknowledged that such suits by the Interior Department or Forest Service were relatively rare, but he said that if a mining claim was bought ''and in a year you turn around and have a ski area, you're going to have someone's undivided attention over in the inspector general's office.'' 
 The bill has still left some Western congressmen, like Dennis R. Rehberg, Republican of Montana, in the hot seat. After a coalition of sporting and fishing groups in his state condemned the bill earlier this week, Mr. Rehberg agreed that he did not like the mining provisions either but might have to vote for the larger budget bill anyway. 
 Mr. Rehberg's office then issued a letter from the sponsor of the provisions, Representative Richard W. Pombo, Republican of California, the chairman of the House Resources Committee. Mr. Pombo promised in writing that he would work in the conference committee to make sure that language protecting recreational access was added.
 Sporting groups, nonetheless, remained unsatisfied.
 ''How are you going to protect hunting and fishing access opportunities and the diverse wildlife that exists on our public lands if it is no longer in public hands?'' asked Craig Sharpe, the executive director of the Montana Wildlife Federation, a hunting and fishing group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); HIKING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RESORTS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); OIL EXTRACTION (71%); WRITERS (71%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); SKIING (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (64%) Mines and Mining; Law and Legislation; Land Use Policies; Real Estate; Public Property; Mines and Mining

PERSON: JIM GIBBONS (57%) Kirk Johnson; Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) MONTANA, USA (93%); WYOMING, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



420 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2049 words

HEADLINE: Money Flowed To City Spared Worst of Storm

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss., Nov. 19 

 BODY:
When the federal government and the nation's largest disaster relief group reached out a helping hand after Hurricane Katrina blew through here, tens of thousands of people grabbed it.
 But in giving out $62 million in aid, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the American Red Cross overlooked a critical fact: the storm was hardly catastrophic here, 160 miles from the coast. The only damage sustained by most of the nearly 30,000 households receiving aid was spoiled food in the freezer.
The fact that at least some relief money has gone to those perceived as greedy, not needy, has set off recriminations in this poor, historic capital where the payments of up to $2,358 set off spending sprees on jewelry, guns and electronics. 
 Though a majority of the money appears to have been given out legally, the United States attorney's office is investigating at least 1,000 reports of fraud, including accusations that people lied about claims of damage or where they lived. State and local officials are criticizing FEMA and the Red Cross as doling out money without safeguards, but they also blame their fellow citizens. 
 ''The donors all across this nation thought they were giving money to put food in the mouths of people who had nothing and clothes on the backs of people who had lost everything,'' said State Representative John R. Reeves, who represents Jackson. ''But that is not what happened here. There was a feeding frenzy. Free money was being handed out.''
 And friends have turned against friends. When word of the Red Cross and federal money got out in Jackson's neighborhoods, many rushed to apply. Huge lines formed at Western Union outlets, discount stores and other places that issued or cashed the relief checks. Erica Thompson, 32, tried unsuccessfully to persuade her friends not to join in.
 ''People can take a good thing and abuse it,'' Ms. Thompson said while doing her wash at a coin laundry in Jackson this week. ''It's not right.''
 Some of those who accepted the aid, though, feel no embarrassment. ''I needed that money,'' said Lynn Alexander, 30, whose apartment lost power in the storm, but was not damaged. She collected $900, she said, from the Red Cross. ''It helped me put gas in my car, wash my clothes and buy food.''
 What happened in Jackson and its suburbs -- in Hinds, Madison and Rankin Counties -- might not be unique. Emergency officials elsewhere in Mississippi and in parts of Louisiana have also questioned how so much federal aid could have been authorized, given the limited damage they documented. 
 ''Someone is going to have to look at that,'' said Bo Boudreaux, deputy director of homeland security in Iberia Parish, west of New Orleans, where perhaps three mobile homes were damaged, he said, but 404 families, according to FEMA, received $2,000 checks in emergency aid.
 FEMA, which is leading the $62 billion Hurricane Katrina relief effort, has been criticized as responding slowly to the disaster and then wasting recovery money. In defending the payments in the Jackson area, the agency and the Red Cross cited the tensions between moving quickly to help the desperate, and moving carefully to avoid aiding the undeserving.
 ''This is the challenge we perpetually face,'' said Nicol Andrews, a FEMA spokeswoman. ''Do you get assistance into the hands of those who desperately need it as quickly as possible? Or do you slow it down to dot every single I and cross every single T? We chose to err on the side of the victim.''
 Charles D. Connor, a senior vice president at the Red Cross in Washington, said his group had a similar imperative. People who brought in a form of identification were eligible for aid. Mr. Connor acknowledges that apparently resulted in aid being offered to some who did not need it.
 ''We did the best we could to help people as quickly as we could knowing that mistakes would be made along the way,'' he said Friday.
 Donald Paxton, executive director of the Central Mississippi Chapter of the Red Cross added: ''Unless you drove down every street in Hinds County, there was no way of immediately determining actually what the damage was.''
 FEMA and the Red Cross have made disaster assistance payments in the past that have drawn criticism. After Hurricane Frances in Florida last year, FEMA distributed $31 million to residents in the Miami-Dade area despite minimal damage. 
 Senator Susan M. Collins, a Maine Republican whose committee oversees FEMA and the Department of Homeland Security, said in an interview Thursday that the agency had apparently failed to correct problems auditors found in Florida. 
 ''It is frustrating to me that FEMA seems incapable of paying legitimate claims quickly and effectively and yet reimburses fraudulent claims without asking any questions,'' Ms. Collins said. ''It is the worst of all worlds.''

Open for Aid
 After Hurricane Katrina devastated coastal communities on Aug. 29, it moved steadily inland toward Jackson. Smack in the middle of Mississippi, the capital city has been in slow decline for more than a decade, struggling with high crime, long-simmering racial tensions and poverty. 
 By the time the hurricane reached this far, its power had diminished. The sustained winds, recorded at 47 m.p.h. at the airport, were far below hurricane speed. But gusts of up to 74 m.p.h. took down trees, knocking out power lines and damaging roofs. Almost all of Jackson lost power. Electricity returned for most customers in a few days. But in some cases, it took up to two weeks. 
 Still, the region was largely spared. In Jackson and two nearby counties, only 50 to 60 homes were declared uninhabitable, local emergency departments said. About 4,000 sustained damage, they said. 
 Immediately after Hurricane Katrina made landfall, the Bush administration declared a disaster area along 15 Mississippi coastal counties, as well as 31 parishes in Louisiana. Residents there were eligible for federal emergency grants, housing assistance and money for repairs, medical bills and other costs.
 But by Sept. 7, at Mississippi's request, the disaster zone was expanded as far as 220 miles inland, reaching 32 counties, including several that never experienced sustained hurricane-force winds. The zone eventually reached 47 counties. The disaster area in Mississippi -- which is led by Gov. Haley Barbour, a Republican ally of President Bush's -- extends 200 miles farther north than that in Louisiana, which is led by Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco, a Democrat who at times criticized the federal storm response. 
 Lea Stokes, a spokeswoman for the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency, said it was the course of the storm, not politics, that dictated the map. The state urged the Bush administration to include so many counties in the disaster zone after documenting widespread damage. The state encouraged all residents to apply for aid, even if the only cost they incurred was the purchase of a chainsaw or generator.
 ''Let them tell you whether or not you qualify before you rule yourself out,'' Ms. Stokes said, echoing the advice offered by Mississippi officials.
 Ms. Andrews, the FEMA spokeswoman, said the federal government typically deferred to states on disaster declarations. But when that happens, she acknowledged, the door is opened for federal aid.
 ''Once we effectively turn on a county, anyone in that county can apply,'' Ms. Andrews said. 
 And the Red Cross, Mr. Connor said, followed the federal lead, authorizing aid for Jackson just as it did for residents of New Orleans.

A Rush for Checks
 Even before Hurricane Katrina landed, the Central Mississippi Chapterof the American Red Cross began preparing. The charity opened a shelter at the Coliseum and Trade Mart in Jackson for evacuees from the coast. Soon after, the Red Cross also began offering cash grants ranging from $360 for a single adult to $1,565 for a family of five.
 Ms. Alexander, who is unemployed, remembers phone calls from her cousin, then from her therapist. The Red Cross, she was told, was giving out money to Jackson residents.
 Ms. Alexander drove to the Trade Mart, but chose not to wait for her turn because the crowd was so large. Back home, she called the charity's toll-free telephone number dozens of times before finally getting approval for $900 in aid. She had to give her name and address, she said. The only storm damage at her apartment was spoiled food in the fridge. ''I was blessed,'' she said. 
 Michael Hendrick had also gone to the Trade Mart, broke, homeless and hungry after fleeing the Louisiana coast. He listened as Jackson-area residents plotted the best way to get the biggest grants. ''It was really kind of turning my stomach,'' Mr. Hendrick said.
 Before the rush subsided, the Red Cross gave $32 million to area residents, including about 25,400 of the 92,000 households in Hinds County, home to Jackson, according to statistics first published in The Clarion Ledger and confirmed by Mr. Paxton of the local Red Cross chapter. 
 FEMA received 42,313 applications from Hinds County and 17,352 claims from Madison or Rankin Counties. To date, 16,407 of those applications have been approved, resulting in a payout of $20.3 million in disaster grants, as well as $9 million in rental assistance and other aid, agency records show. Most of the federal money was intended for people whose homes were uninhabitable, but it was distributed before any home inspections were conducted.
 The relief checks soon created a crush of customers at local businesses. A clerk at Quik Cash, a check-cashing store, said a line of more than 100 customers stretched down the hallway, out the door and around the corner. So many people showed up that the business ran out of cash.
 Lee Montgomery, the manager of Terry Road Pawn Shop in Jackson, said many of those cashing relief checks at his business immediately bought jewelry, firearms, DVD movies and electronics.
 Bob Parks, owner of a Hinds County pharmacy and Western Union agency, said he watched in disbelief as hundreds of Jackson-area residents arrived at his store to get relief checks. ''Surely the Red Cross has to have a better use of funds,'' Mr. Parks said. ''Unless they just have money that they are trying to get rid of for some reason.''

Unexpected Numbers
 Local government officials were baffled by the payouts. Weeks after the storm, Larry J. Fisher, director of the Hinds County emergency department, got a call from a regional FEMA representative saying that staff members wanted to know why county officials had reported that so few homes were uninhabitable.
 FEMA has sent aid to thousands of county residents who claimed their homes were ruined, including 7,622 checks for $2,000 in emergency financial assistance. But Mr. Fisher counted only about 50 uninhabitable homes and perhaps 4,000 with any damage at all.
 To resolve the discrepancy, Mr. Fisher recalled, he was told: ''You are going to increase your number.'' A Baptist deacon and a former city police detective, Mr. Fisher, 67, was going to have none of that. Backed up by digital photographs he had taken of damaged properties, he refused to revise his reports. ''I am not going to change my figures up to yours,'' Mr. Fisher said he told the FEMA official. ''You want to start investigating, by all means, do so.'' When asked about the conversation, FEMA officials said they were not aware of it.
 Officials in Mississippi fault both the Red Cross and FEMA for not having clearer -- and tougher -- standards about what kind of damage merited a claim. In the end, it appeared that simply being a resident when the storm passed through was enough to collect a check.
 Mr. Paxton said he realized that there was some abuse, but he could not say for sure just how much took place. If the charity failed to act responsibly, he said, it will move to correct the problems. Already, Mr. Connor said, the charity has stopped monetary aid in Jackson unless losses are documented.
 Marshand K. Crisler, president of the Jackson City Council, said many aid applicants perhaps honestly believed they deserved help, even if it was simply to replace spoiled food. But clearly there was abuse as well.
 "People are taking advantage of a crisis,'' Mr. Crisler said. ''We are saddened that people would stoop to such a level."


GRAPHIC: Photos: Crowds in Jackson, Miss., arrived at the Mississippi Trade Mart on Sept. 6, one week after Hurricane Katrina, only to discover that Red Cross caseworkers had handled as many claims as they could that day. (Photo by Rogelio Solis/Associated Press)
''Surely the Red Cross has to have a better use of funds,'' said Bob Parks, whose Western Union agency cashed hundreds of aid checks.
Larry J. Fisher, who heads the county emergency department, said FEMA had issued far more aid checks than there were damaged homes.
 While waiting in line for aid from the Red Cross, Michael Hendrick said he heard people around him discussing ways to get as much as possible. (Photographs by Suzi Altman for The New York Times)(pg. 33)Chart/Map: ''After the Storm''The Federal Emergency Management Agency has paid more than $782 million to individuals and households in Mississippi since Hurricane Katrina made landfall. This map shows how much money was paid out within each county in the declared disaster area. Although many counties were hit with hurricane-force winds, millions of dollars were paid to people in counties that did not experiences significant storm damage.Map of the area struck by Hurricane Katrina highlights its course, wind speed in m.p.h., and the payments FEMA made to each affected county.(pg. 33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WEATHER (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (63%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Frauds and Swindling; Floods

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (94%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (92%) Federal Emergency Management Agency; Red Cross

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (53%)

PERSON: Eric Lipton

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Jackson (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



421 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 3; Sports Desk; AROUND THE N.B.A.; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Sprewell Keeps Waiting, With Less and Less to Show for It

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
Where in the world is Latrell Sprewell? 
 His boat now stored for the winter, he is unemployed at age 35 and working out in Milwaukee, said his agent, Bob Gist. Sprewell is keeping in shape until an N.B.A. team signs him at the right price. 
His market value seems to be dropping. Last season, he rejected Minnesota's offer for a three-year, $21 million contract extension. With a $14.6 million salary last season, Sprewell felt that the Timberwolves had undervalued him, remarking, infamously, that he had a family to feed. Now he may be eating his words. 
 Sprewell scored 18.3 points a game over 13 seasons, the last of which ended without a playoff berth. He has drawn interest from ''a few teams,'' Gist said. That interest is waning. Woeful Atlanta could sign him without restrictions, but Sprewell would prefer that the Hawks trade him to a competitive team, Gist said. 
 Miami has $3.9 million remaining of the midlevel exception, but Pat Riley, the team president, has not shown interest. San Antonio General Manager R. C. Buford called Gist this summer on behalf of Coach Gregg Popovich to express his regret that the Spurs did not have the money Sprewell wanted. It was a gracious gesture, considering P. J. Carlesimo, the coach Sprewell choked at Golden State, is Popovich's assistant. 
 Detroit signed Dale Davis and Maurice Evans over the summer. The Lakers could be Sprewell's best chance, but they have only $2.5 million left. He is playing a waiting game until teams become desperate around the trading deadline in February, hoping to earn far more than the $5 million midlevel exception. ''That's a level beneath which he would not stoop or kneel,'' Gist said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%) Basketball

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (83%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (58%); ATLANTA HAWKS (55%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (54%) Minnesota Timberwolves

PERSON: Liz Robbins; Latrell Sprewell

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (73%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (68%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (57%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%) MINNESOTA, USA (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (68%); GEORGIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



422 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Finance Minister, Citing Election Plans, Quits

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
The respected finance minister of the Palestinian Authority submitted his resignation on Saturday, saying he was considering running in legislative elections on Jan. 25. But the minister, Salam Fayyad, has also expressed enormous frustration at the inability of the Palestinian Authority to confront its financial problems, which are considerable, Palestinian and Western officials said. 
 Mr. Fayyad, an American-trained economist and former official with the International Monetary Fund, has been considered a beacon of honesty and credibility in the fuzzy world of Palestinian finances, and his appointment was pressed on the former Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat by the United States and the European Union. If he does leave his post, it could cast further doubt on the authority's ability to handle its finances in a transparent way.
 The World Bank recently warned that donor countries might not disburse the next portion of some $350 million a year in aid -- expected by the end of the year -- because the Palestinian Authority had broken its promises not to raise wages beyond its ability to pay, said the bank's director for West Bank and Gaza, Nigel Roberts.
 Salaries for security officers and civil servants are not lavish, even after a large increase given this summer. But the Palestinian Authority's wage bill is now about $1 billion a year -- roughly equal to its income, Mr. Roberts said, leaving another $800 million to $900 million in projected debt for all nonwage expenditures. Even with $350 million a year from donors, the gap is large. The Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, is trying to secure the loyalty of militants and bring them into the security services, but he is also trying to show that the Palestinians can run Gaza and a future independent state.
 Mr. Fayyad said that the Palestinian election law required ministers to resign two months before the voting and that he was considering running. But Mr. Roberts said Mr. Fayyad ''is very frustrated'' with the wage increase, adding, ''He tried to stop it, and argued with cabinet and parliament without success at their irresponsible behavior.'' Mr. Roberts said he hoped that the resignation would be rejected. ''I have great respect for him as a brave and responsible minister,'' he said.
 Also on Saturday, Israeli troops arrested at least five Palestinians carrying weapons at checkpoints in the West Bank and opened an inquiry into the wounding of a 17-year-old Palestinian with a toy gun on Friday. Soldiers thought the youth was firing at cars north of Ramallah, the army said. Near Hebron, soldiers killed a Palestinian member of Hamas who threw explosives at their jeep.
 In Gaza, a 17-year-old died in a gun battle Friday evening among two clans and the Palestinian police over disputed land in the former Israeli settlement of Neve Dekalim.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (84%); HAMAS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); ARMIES (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); FIREARMS (64%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (63%) Palestinians; Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; Election Issues; Wages and Salaries; Foreign Aid 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%) Palestinian Authority; International Bank For Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%) Steven Erlanger; Salam (Min) Fayyad

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



423 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon to Raise Importance Of 'Stability' Efforts in War 

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and DAVID S. CLOUD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
The Pentagon's leadership, recognizing that it was caught off guard by difficulties in pacifying Iraq after the invasion, is poised to approve a sweeping directive that will elevate what it calls ''stability operations'' to a core military mission comparable to full-scale combat.
 The new order could significantly influence how the military is structured, as well as the specialties it emphasizes and the equipment it buys. 
The directive has been the subject of intense negotiations in the Pentagon policy office and throughout the military; the deliberations included the State Department and other civilian agencies, as the order aims to push the entire government to work in greater unison to plan and carry out postcombat operations.
 The directive also envisions sending abroad more civilian officials, including State Department personnel, to help the military establish the peace and rebuild after combat.
 The newest draft of the document, delivered in recent days to the acting deputy secretary of defense, Gordon R. England, for final approval, states, ''Stability operations are a core U.S. military mission that the Department of Defense shall be prepared to conduct and support.''
 The stability operations carried out by the Department of Defense ''shall be given priority comparable to combat operations and be explicitly addressed and integrated across all D.O.D. activities,'' the draft says. 
 Although the American military is now virtually in a class of its own when it comes to conventional combat, the wars in Afghanistan and in particular Iraq prove that winning the peace is just as important -- and sometimes more difficult.
 Congress has criticized the Bush administration, and the Pentagon, for not devising effective plans to stabilize and rebuild Iraq after the swift capture of Baghdad. Many lawmakers have accused the administration of utterly failing to coordinate its postcombat efforts across the executive branch. 
 Even in Afghanistan, where reconstruction and democratization is progressing more successfully, the effort is stymied by the lack of government personnel from departments other than the Pentagon to work in developing the economy, building public service infrastructure, battling the narcotics trade and developing democratic political institutions. Although the military is stretched by its current missions, the number of Americans in uniform is vastly larger than the civilian force in the State Department and other agencies assigned to reconstruction tasks.
 Beyond that, military personnel can be ordered to yearlong tours in war zones, unlike civil and foreign service personnel, who have greater choice over the location and length of their assignments. 
 ''Many stability operations tasks are best performed by indigenous, foreign, or U.S. civilian professionals,'' the order says in arguing that the military alone cannot shoulder the mission, and should not. ''Nonetheless, U.S. military forces shall be prepared to perform all tasks necessary to establish or maintain order when civilians cannot do so.'' 
 More than six civilian and military officials were granted anonymity so they would speak freely of the document's contents before its approval; two officials provided draft copies. Although the directive may change in the final review by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Mr. England, officials said its major elements were now in place.
 In recent days, a significant change in the order was made by the military's Joint Staff just before it was sent to Mr. England. Earlier drafts were limited to ''stability operations,'' but the current draft was specifically rewritten to require a much broader range of ''military support for stability, security, transition and reconstruction operations.''
 That shift, three civilian and military officials said, was advocated by Adm. Edmund P. Giambastiani Jr., the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who pushed for an integrated response to the stability operations challenge in his previous assignment as commander of the military's Joint Forces Command in Norfolk, Va.
 The previous military term for stability operations -- Phase IV, because it follows combat, known as Phase III -- is not in the directive, an acknowledgment that in Iraq and Afghanistan combat is occurring simultaneously with reconstruction and aid work and that stabilization requires much more than security.
 Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, wrote last month to the senior members of the Senate Armed Services Committee in favor of granting the Defense Department authority to transfer millions of dollars to the State Department in part ''to enable civilian professionals to deploy alongside military forces in stabilization and reconstruction operations.''
 An amendment establishing the transfer authority, sponsored by Senator James M. Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican on the Armed Services Committee, has been approved by the Senate, but needs the backing of House members in a conference committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); TERRORISM (59%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Thom Shanker; David S Cloud; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



424 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: China Wages Classroom Struggle to Win Friends in Africa

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
As the teacher, a career Chinese diplomat, spoke, his class of African diplomats scribbled furiously. 
 At the United Nations, China opposed the United States invasion of Iraq and has defended the right of Iran and other developing countries to use civilian nuclear power, said the teacher, Yuan Shibin. China, he noted pointedly, swept aside American objections to making an African the secretary general.
There was nothing subtle about his message, which will be repeatedly hammered home to the African diplomats during their three month, all-expenses paid stay at the Foreign Affairs University here. ''China will always protect its own interests as well as those of other developing countries,'' Mr. Yuan said. By contrast, ''U.S. national interests are not often in conformity with those of other nations, including China.'' 
 The classes are one element in a campaign by Beijing to win friends around the world and pry developing nations out of the United States' sphere of influence. Africa, with its immense oil and mineral wealth and numerous United Nations votes, lies at the heart of that effort. 
 Since 2000, Chinese trade with Africa has more than tripled, reaching nearly $30 billion in 2004. Beijing has signed at least 40 oil agreements with various African countries. Medical teams from China are training counterparts in numerous African countries and providing free equipment and drugs to help fight AIDS, malaria and other scourges. 
 ''China is making a determined effort to make sure that its interests are represented,'' said Drew Thompson, a China scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''They are making sure they have a seat at the table, and that their relationships are comprehensive and not just economic. It isn't competitive in the way the cold war was. It's more a case of seeing to it that their message is on one of the many cable channels out there.'' 
 China's efforts to cultivate African ties date to the earliest days of the independence era on the continent, when Beijing armed and trained liberation movements and sent its workers by the thousands to build roads, railways and stadiums. Today, Chinese bankers and oil executives are as common a sight as Westerners in African capitals.
 Meanwhile, several Chinese ministries, including Science and Technology, Agriculture, Commerce and Education, are working with African governments to train officials and develop human resources. 
 While the aid seems aimed at winning African hearts, the classes in diplomacy, constantly refined over the past decade, seem aimed more at swaying African minds. In addition, to impart a sympathetic view of China, they put forth a distinctly Chinese view of the world on questions about everything from economic development and history to democracy.
 ''Soft power is said to be coercive, persuading people to do what you'd like them to do, as opposed to hard power, which means forcing them to do what you want to do,'' said Qin Yaqing, vice president of the Foreign Affairs University, a state-run school that trains China's own diplomats and works with foreign trainees. ''In traditional Chinese philosophy we have something similar to this, and it is called moral attraction.''
 China's appeal to Africa and much of the third world centers on the idea that nations will be drawn to an emerging superpower that does not lecture them about democracy and human rights or interfere in what Beijing considers ''internal affairs.'' 
 The other pole of attraction is, of course, China's remarkable quarter century of economic growth, which has lifted it from the ranks of the poorest to make it one of the largest and most powerful economies.
 For developing countries, many of which have grown disenchanted with the so-called Washington consensus, a mixture of lowered trade barriers, privatization, democracy and free markets, there is intense interest in trying to learn from China. There is talk of a rival ''Beijing Consensus,'' which emphasizes innovation and growth through a social-market economy, while placing less emphasis on free markets and democracy.
 Officially, China denies that it is promoting a competing program. ''Yes, a lot of African countries have been coming to China,'' said Liu Jianchao, deputy spokesman of the Foreign Ministry. ''But although people may call it a Beijing Consensus, we are not trying to pose as a model for other countries.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); MALARIA (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); AIDS & HIV (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Third World and Developing Countries; Foreign Aid; International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) Foreign Affairs University (Beijing)

PERSON: Howard W French

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%) China; Africa

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



425 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: Immigrant Laborers From Haiti Are Paid With Abuse in the Dominican Republic 

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: GUATAPANAL, Dominican Republic 

 BODY:
The tobacco fields are being planted a little late this year because the Haitian immigrants who work them were driven away by threats of a lynching.
 The troubles in this farm town in the country's northwest started in late September, with allegations that a Dominican worker had been killed by two black men. Too angry to wait for a trial, local Dominicans armed themselves with machetes and went out for vengeance.
 ''Where there are two Haitians, kill one; where there are three Haitians, kill two,'' said leaders of the mobs that descended on the immigrants' camps, the Haitians here recalled. ''But always let one go so that he can run back to his country and tell them what happened.''
 Several Haitian workers were beaten by the Dominican mobs, said Jacobo Martinez Jimenez, an immigrant organizer. One Haitian, Mr. Martinez said, drowned when he fell into a river as he tried to get away. At least half of the town's 2,000 Haitian workers fled, as they said they had been warned to do, back across the border to Haiti, which shares the island of Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic. Hundreds of others hid in the hills to the east, hoping that Dominican tempers would cool so that they could return to their jobs. 
 The attacks on Haitians here provide the most recent example of what international human rights groups describe as the Dominican Republic's systematic abuse of Haitians and Dominicans of Haitian descent. In recent years, those organizations report, tens of thousands of Haitians have been summarily expelled from the country by individuals and the government, forcing them to abandon loved ones, work and whatever money or possessions they might have. 
 ''We do all the work, but we have no rights,'' said Victor Beltran, one of about 150 Haitian immigrants, most of them barefoot and dressed in rags, who had taken refuge in a rickety old barn. ''We do all the work, but our children cannot go to school. We do all the work, but our women cannot go to the hospital.
 ''We do all the work,'' he said, ''but we have to stay hidden in the shadows.''
 Among those who have been deported, said Roxanna Altholz, a lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley, are Spanish-speaking Dominicans who were born to Haitian parents but have never visited Haiti, much less lived there.
 At the root of the problem, Ms. Altholz said, is that Haitian immigrants and their Dominican-born children live in a state of ''permanent illegality,'' unable to acquire documents that prove they have jobs or attend schools or even that they were born in this country. 
 In October, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights issued an opinion that the Dominican Republic was illegally denying birth certificates to babies born here to Haitian parents, and ordered the government to end the practice. 
 Human Rights Watch has also published extensive investigations of the mass expulsions, and the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child has expressed concerns about Haitian children being denied access to education and medical care.
 ''Snatched off the street, dragged from their homes, or picked up from their workplaces, 'Haitian-looking' people are rarely given a fair opportunity to challenge their expulsion during these wholesale sweeps,'' Human Rights Watch reported in 2002. ''The arbitrary nature of such actions, which myriad international human rights bodies have condemned, is glaringly obvious.'' 
 Several Roman Catholic priests here have been threatened with legal action, including expulsion from the country, after the authorities found that they had illegally obtained birth certificates for dozens of Dominican-Haitian babies by falsely declaring them to be their own. One of the priests has also been receiving death threats, prompting the church to move him out of the country temporarily for his safety
 ''By keeping Haitians in a limbo of illegality, the government can do whatever they want with them,'' said the Rev. Regino Martinez Breton of the Jesuit-run agency Solidaridad Fronteriza, in Dajabon, a city on the Dominican border. ''The government can bring as many Haitians here as they want and then throw them away when they don't want them anymore.''
 Racism helps fuel the anti-immigrant sentiment, human rights groups say, since Haitians tend to have darker skin than Dominicans and are therefore often assumed to hold a lower social status. 
 The two countries have been volatile neighbors for most of the last two centuries, beginning with Haiti's domination of the Dominican Republic after its independence from Spain in the early 1800's. A century later, Rafael Trujillo, then the Dominican dictator, ordered the executions of some 37,000 Haitians in what many historians have called a ruthless campaign of ethnic cleansing. Indeed, the river that separates Haiti from the Dominican Republic is called Massacre River because of the slaughter.
 Although anti-Haiti talk has since become a standard part of Dominican politics, the police and the military have made fortunes trafficking Haitians into the country to supply labor for agriculture and construction. Haitians here, desperate to escape the poverty and upheaval in their country, often say they have little choice but to accept Dominican exploitation. 
 Meanwhile, Dominican workers have been slowly pushed out of work by Haitian immigrants who will work for less, and so they are leaving their homeland in droves on rickety boats headed toward Puerto Rico, even though the Dominican Republic is one of the fastest growing economies in the Caribbean. 
 Nationalist talk by the elite and frustration among unemployed Dominicans drive most attacks on Haitians, human rights groups say. And while one Dominican government after another has promised change, human rights investigators charge that they have all failed to guarantee Haitian immigrants and their Dominican-born descendants basic protections.
 Guatapanal is not the only place where immigrants have experienced the Dominican Republic's version of mob justice. In August, on the outskirts of Santo Domingo, the capital, four Haitian men were gagged, doused with flammable liquids and set on fire. Three of the men, from 19 to 22 years old, died of their injuries. Soon after, Haiti temporarily recalled the leader of its diplomatic mission in the Dominican Republic to protest what it described as a ''growing wave of racist violence'' against its people.
 After a Dominican woman was stabbed to death in May not far from here, Dominican mobs went on a rampage, beating Haitian migrants and setting fire to their houses. Before the next dawn, police officers and soldiers went door to door pulling some 2,000 Haitian migrants from their beds and loading them onto buses bound for the border.
 At least 500 of those deported, Father Martinez said, were legal guest workers and Dominican citizens.
 ''It was a disaster,'' said Andres Carlitos Benson, a Dominican-born university student who lives in Libertad. ''We showed them our university identification cards, and they tore them up in front of us and told us to shut up, or they were going to beat us.
 ''They took parents away and left their children,'' he added. ''They took old people out of their beds without any clothes.''
 Stung by mounting international criticism, President Leonel Fernandez of the Dominican Republic has publicly expressed concern that some of his government's deportations of Haitians have violated international standards on human rights. 
 Still, his government rejected the ruling by the Inter-American Court. Other Dominican officials have said that their government was struggling with scant resources to secure its porous border and stop the surging flow of Haitians, which they blame for rising crime rates and overburdened schools, hospitals and housing. 
 A statement in late October by the Roman Catholic Bishops Conference of the Dominican Republic also said, ''Our nation has a limited capacity to absorb excessive immigration,'' and pleaded for help. 
 ''This is a very sensitive subject,'' said Ambassador Inocencio Garcia, who is in charge of Dominican-Haitian relations at the Foreign Ministry. ''I can tell you with all sincerity. We have institutional problems. We are making efforts to correct them. But in no way can the government of the Dominican Republic be characterized as one that does not respect basic rights.''
 Ambassador Garcia said in an interview that a majority of poor Dominican children did not have birth certificates. But he did not respond to charges that Haitian children were routinely denied such documents.
 The mayor here in Guatapanal, Jose Francisco Perez, described the Haitians coming into this town as ''an invasion.'' He said Guatapanal had 2,000 Haitians and only 500 Dominicans.
 Area landowners stopped hiring Dominican workers for $10 a day because Haitians accepted less than half that, he said.
 ''Now instead of hiring 40 Dominican workers for a field, they hire 400 Haitians, and the Dominicans are left with nothing,'' Mr. Perez said. ''There's too many Haitians. If the government is not going to help us get rid of them, then we will do it ourselves.''
 Some landowners criticized the attacks by the Dominicans, and they have brought back many of the workers who fled.
 ''The problem is that there is no real justice,'' said Francisco Cabrera, who rents a few dozen acres of tobacco land here and uses Haitian laborers. He said the police rarely tried to stop attacks on them. ''So people take justice into their own hands.''
 Polivio Perez Colon, 36, one of the Dominican overseers who led the mobs against the Haitians, said they did not mean the immigrants any real harm. But he agreed that the Dominicans here felt outnumbered.
 ''They are people who do not use bathrooms,'' he said, referring to Haitians, many of whom live in shacks without running water and electricity. ''They walk around drinking and making a lot of noise at night. Sometimes the men dance with each other.
 ''It's not that they are all bad. But they have to submit to our way of life. If not, these problems will keep happening.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Many children of Haitian workers are denied birth certificates despite being born in the Dominican Republic.
 Haitian farmworkers in Guatapanal, Dominican Republic, were threatened with lynching in September after two Dominican laborers were killed under uncertain circumstances. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)Map of the Dominican Republic highlighting Guatapanal: Abuse of Haitians by Dominicans has been reported in Guatapanal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CHILDREN (85%); TOBACCO FARMING (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); RIOTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%) Discrimination; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: Ginger Thompson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) HAITI (99%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Dominican Republic ; Haiti; Foreign Labor; Dominican Republic 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



426 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: State Panel to Rate Hospitals To Identify the Least Viable

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The state commission on shrinking New York's hospital industry has adopted a rating system to start determining which hospitals should close, and it plans to assign scores to individual hospitals or groups of hospitals in January.
 The rating system would be a watershed in the state's attempt to manage the contraction of a business plagued by deficits. For the first time, it would give a rough ranking of hospitals and identify ones the state might seek to close.
The ratings are anticipated with great interest by people in the health care industry -- and with dread by some hospital officials, who say that an institution receiving a low grade will be seen as failing and will immediately lose business. 
 At a meeting on Thursday in Manhattan, the commission approved the rating system, and its members received CD's packed with information on the use and finances of each hospital and nursing home. The scoring system and the data are to be published on the commission's Web site, nyhealthcarecommission.org, in the next few days.
 In recent years, more than a dozen hospitals around the state have shut, and many more closures and consolidations are expected. The Commission on Health Care Facilities in the 21st Century, appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki and legislative leaders, is intended to guide that process and to make recommendations to the state's elected officials by December 2006.
 Under the initial rating system, each hospital will be evaluated in six categories, receiving scores of 1, 0, or minus 1, so that the possible total scores will range from 6 to minus 6. The hospitals in each region will then be divided into those at high risk of closing, those at medium risk and those at low risk.
 The six scoring areas will give points to hospitals that serve a mostly poor population, those without readily available alternatives in their areas, those that provide high-quality care, those that are heavily used, those that are strong financially, and those that have a major economic impact on their communities. The guidelines include specific criteria that will go into each of those ratings.
 Stephen Berger, the commission chairman, and David Sandman, the executive director, said the system was deliberately simple, rather than being more fine-grained. It serves only as a starting point for deliberations and for a more detailed look at the troubled hospitals, they said, not a verdict on the hospitals' fate.
 ''This is not just a numbers game,'' Mr. Sandman said. ''If it was, we wouldn't need a commission, we'd need a computer.''
 Leaders of the major hospital and nursing home industry groups said that they would reserve judgment about the ratings plan but that it made them nervous.
 ''I understand the need for a crude measuring instrument to start with, but they should not go public with the results unless they have a very high certainty that they've really differentiated between hospitals in a rational, meaningful way,'' said Daniel Sisto, president of the Healthcare Association of New York State.
 ''Once a hospital's name appears on a high-risk list, you've put them in trouble,'' he said.
 The most heated part of the meeting was discussion of an attempt to slow the pace of big capital projects by hospitals -- construction and renovation of buildings, and purchases of sophisticated machinery. Industry analysts say that New York's hospitals have spent too freely on such things and that expected mergers and consolidations could make some projects unnecessary.
 Mr. Berger and another commission member, Robert Hinckley, a former adviser to Governor Pataki, proposed sending a letter to two state boards that approve capital projects, asking them to consider rejecting projects that were not essential, as judged against a list of criteria.
 But some other commissioners, and industry officials, said the idea amounted to a moratorium on new construction and interfered with the work of the other panels. Mr. Berger withdrew the proposal but said he might make it again in different form.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (75%); NURSING HOMES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Shutdowns (Institutional); Ratings and Rating Systems; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: Commission on Health Care Facilities in the 21st Century (NYS)

PERSON: Richard Perez-Pena

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



427 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: 'The Bonfire Of the Vanities,' 2005 Edition

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
PAUL E. JOHNSON, a former Wall Street analyst who never saw an overpriced technology stock he didn't like, is still reeling from a federal jury's finding 10 days ago that he violated securities laws by misleading investors with his research. But his shock is less than shocking. After all, this is a man whose favorite state seems to be denial. He continued to rate more than 20 bubble stocks a ''buy'' in 2002 even after they had lost most of their value. And he was so certain that it was O.K. to advise investors in 2001 to buy the shares of a company as he was selling that he chose to try his case rather than settle with regulators. 
 Bad move. While Mr. Johnson could be enjoying life after Wall Street a la those other fallen stock analysts, Jack Grubman or Henry Blodget, he instead faces unspecified civil penalties, disgorgement of illicit profits and disgrace. Unless, that is, the verdict is thrown out or Mr. Johnson wins his case on appeal. 
Mr. Johnson's civil case really jumps out. It is the only one contending bias by an individual analyst that has gone to trial since the stock bubble burst in 2000 and investors learned how corrupt Wall Street research had become. And by finding Mr. Johnson in violation of federal securities laws for not disclosing personal stakes in stocks he was recommending, the jurors have slapped down the notion that conflicts among Wall Street research analysts were not illegal or that the biases were so well known as to be irrelevant. 
 The trial concerned the time that Mr. Johnson spent as an analyst at Robertson Stephens, a unit of Bank of America and then FleetBoston Financial. Lawyers for the Securities and Exchange Commission argued the case before United States District Court Judge John F. Keenan. Representing Mr. Johnson were Mark Pomerantz and Eric Goldstein of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. 
 The whole thing lasted two weeks, and Mr. Johnson spent three days on the stand. There, he explained why in 2001 he did not tell investors that he was selling shares in the Corvis Corporation, a company he was recommending. He also discussed his failure to disclose how he stood to gain more than $12 million from stakes in two private concerns about to be acquired by public companies he followed. He praised both acquisitions in his reports and in comments to print and television reporters.
 Mr. Johnson declined to be interviewed for this article. But his lawyers said he would fight to restore his reputation. ''Paul Johnson is an honest and decent man, who did not commit securities fraud,'' Mr. Pomerantz said in a statement. ''His research always reflected his actual opinion of the companies he covered, and his behavior was fully in accord with industry practice, his firm's practice and the rules and regulations then in force.'' 
 The jurors rejected that argument entirely. There seemed to be little doubt among them: their verdict came after just a few hours. 
 Federal securities laws are based on full disclosure, and the jury had to decide whether Mr. Johnson's omissions were material. ''The heart of it is the materiality test,'' said Lewis D. Lowenfels, a specialist in securities law at Tolins & Lowenfels in New York. ''An omitted fact is material if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable investor would consider it important in making his or her decision. It's a Supreme Court opinion; if you were an investor, wouldn't you want to know if the guy who was recommending that you buy the stock was selling his own holdings in the same stock at the same time?''
 OBVIOUSLY, the jury thought so. Mr. Johnson's testimony on Nov. 7, 8 and 9, however, shows a man deep in denial. For instance, when asked by a prosecutor if he would agree that one of the major purposes of the securities regulations is to protect investors, Mr. Johnson responded: ''I don't know.''
 And when Russell Duncan, an S.E.C. lawyer, inquired why he did not disclose to a Bloomberg News reporter that he had a financial interest worth $1.8 million in a merger that he was supporting in his writings and his comments, Mr. Johnson said: ''It wouldn't have occurred to me. Sorry. It would not have occurred to me to mention that, no.'' 
 And why didn't he disclose this financial interest to anyone in Robertson Stephens's research department? ''Again, it wouldn't have occurred to me, so no,'' Mr. Johnson said.
 On other matters, jurors got a glimpse of how Wall Street's haves become have-mores. He described in some detail how he often bought stakes in private companies looking to issue stock publicly, positioning him for hefty profits. 
 ''I was a very prominent analyst in this area during this time,'' Mr. Johnson allowed. ''I did make investments in these private companies; I visited these private companies on numerous occasions; I developed a very close relationship with the management; and when it came time to become their investment banker we had a leg up, we had an advantage against our competitors.'' 
 Now we know why Mr. Johnson only uttered the word sell privately, not publicly. How can you stay close to executives if you advise stockholders to sell?
 Other testimony from Mr. Johnson seemed ripped out of the pages of ''The Bonfire of the Vanities,'' Tom Wolfe's phenomenal study of Wall Street arrogance. Asked why he sold stock in the same company he was advising his clients to buy, Mr. Johnson said that he still believed in the company but that he needed cash for a $6 million apartment he and his wife were buying on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
 Then he treated the jury to an account of the New York real estate market, circa 2000, that each and every one of them could no doubt relate to. ''When we bought -- in the real estate market in New York things move really fast,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''When I tell my friends outside of New York, they are sort of horrified. We bought this apartment, my wife had seen it for 20 minutes, and I had seen it for 20 minutes. We had heard the apartment was about to come on the market, and we were allowed to see the apartment before it came on the market. She saw it on a Friday, I saw it on a Sunday, each for about 20 minutes. Sunday night we put in a bid. The apartment was going on the market on Monday morning. We put in a bid, they accepted our bid, and we owned the apartment -- well, technically we owned the apartment Sunday night. This was in late November.
 ''In the ensuing six weeks,'' he continued, ''We got to see the apartment one more time for about 40 minutes. We decided at that point that we thought that we would repaint, we would clean up the kitchen -- the kitchen was not in great shape -- and we would redo one of the bathrooms. 
 ''As we moved forward and started to do inspection on the apartment, we were informed that the electrical in the apartment was not up to code; we were informed that the plumbing in the apartment was not up to code. The building informed us that if we opened even a single wall we would have to bring up the plumbing and the electrical throughout the apartment up to code.''
 Alas, Mr. Johnson explained, this was going to cost money. And that meant selling his Corvis shares at around $23, even though he was advising clients to buy. The stock later went to 49 cents. 
 The original budget for renovations was $300,000, he said. ''By the time we heard we had to bring the electrical and plumbing up to code,'' he continued, ''we were quickly approaching the better part of a million dollars, at which point we knew we would have to open up every wall to replace the electrical and replace the plumbing, at which point my wife said now that we're into this, let's just gut the place.''
 That ratcheted the renovation budget to $1.2 million, Mr. Johnson continued, ''which was a pretty good estimate but low by about 50 percent than what we ultimately paid. And that was before we decorated. Well, before she decorated.''
 Oh, that explains it. 
 And what of the folks who followed Mr. Johnson's advice, riding stocks like the Clarent Corporation, Sonus Networks and Oni Systems into the cellar? You know how it is: when you're in the nightmarish throes of a Manhattan renovation, everything else just pales.
 While Mr. Johnson and his legal team decide how to proceed, he is running Nicusa Capital, a private investment partnership he started in January 2003. According to his Web site, the partnership is named for Nicholas of Cusa, ''a 15th-century scholar and theologian who is considered by some historians to be the father of modern science.''
 MR. JOHNSON is also an adjunct professor at the Columbia Business School, where he has taught securities analysis since 1992. A copy of his syllabus noted that students would earn bonus points ''for creative thinking and insightful analysis.'' Proving that truth is stranger than fiction, Mr. Johnson's most recent course, offered last spring, was on value investing.
 Maria Graham, a Columbia Business School spokeswoman, said that Mr. Johnson was not teaching this year. Asked whether the jury's verdict in his securities law case would have a bearing on his employment as a professor, Ms. Graham said: ''We can't comment on future employment prospects for any individual person.''
 Well, at least Mr. Johnson is not teaching business ethics.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Johnson, shown above in 2000, was found liable earlier this month of misleading investors with stock research. (Photo by Charlie Archambault/U.S. News & World Report)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BONDS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ETHICS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%); JUDGES (67%) Stocks and Bonds; Securities and Commodities Violations; Frauds and Swindling; Suits and Litigation; Ethics

COMPANY: PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (82%); BROADWING CORP (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Corvis Corp

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson; Paul E (Former Wall Street Analyst) Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



428 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1799 words

HEADLINE: Soul Man

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND. 
John Leland is a reporter at The Times and the author of ''Hip: The History.''

 BODY:
DREAM BOOGIE
 The Triumph of Sam Cooke.
 By Peter Guralnick.
 Illustrated. 750 pp. Little, Brown & Company. $27.95.
America has two Faust stories, and they run in opposite directions. The first is that of the Delta bluesman, most notably Robert Johnson, who sells his soul to the Devil for otherworldly chops. The story is a twist on a West African tale in which the crossroads figure is a trickster named Eshu or Legba, who mediates between the gods and men. Only in America did he become the Devil, and only here did his beneficiary pay so dearly for his moment of bling. 
 The second story, no less cautionary, is that of the religious performer who brings sacral elements to the pop marketplace, like Ray Charles, or scandalously crosses over to secular music, like Sam Cooke. This story also has a long history, going back at least to Al Jolson's ''Jazz Singer,'' in which an Orthodox Jewish boy flees his father's cantorial lessons to sing ragtime and marry a shiksa. The two stories might seem analogous, especially if you consider secular music literally the Devil's, but there is a key difference: the Johnson story is an invocation of the supernatural, and the Jolson story is a renunciation of it. Or think of it this way: Johnson, by putting himself into a Yoruba folk tale, reclaimed ethnic ties that had been severed by America; Jolson cut the ties himself, claiming full commercial membership in the ascendant New World. As Neil Diamond sang in the remake, this is the story of America. About musicians who cross the other way -- Cat Stevens, Al Green or the briefly born-again Bob Dylan -- we have much less to say. They have simply dropped out of this national narrative. 
 Peter Guralnick's exhaustive new biography of Sam Cooke documents a life spent in a constant negotiation between Robert Johnson's version of the Faust story and Al Jolson's. Cooke's general direction was clear from age 9, when he told his brother that he would never work a job, slaving just to be broke again. ''I'm gonna sing, and I'm going to make me a lot of money,'' he said. But the meaning of his journey rested on these questions of race, commerce and faith, which he was forever recalibrating: how to love black America and still gain access to the resources held by whites? 
 Cooke's story has been told before, notably in Daniel Wolff's fine ''You Send Me,'' written with two Cooke associates and a researcher. Guralnick, author of the demystifying two-volume Elvis bio, ''Last Train to Memphis'' and ''Careless Love,'' adds layers of detail and context, surrounding Cooke in the overlapping worlds of gospel, the civil rights movement and rock 'n' roll, before they became separate guilds. Cooke passed through each of these worlds but, for all his imprint on them, he encamped in none. We catch sight of him mainly through the people and places he left behind: the women seduced by his gospel croon; Cassius Clay and Malcolm X in Miami, on the eve of Clay's conversion to Islam; the white and black business partners; the record company and publishing company he formed, bucking an industry that saw blacks as assets, not owners. 
 The road allowed Cooke to be one thing for the white swells in the Catskills, and another for the black audience at the Harlem Square Club in Miami. (If you haven't heard ''Live at the Harlem Square Club, 1963,'' do your soul a favor -- now.) Guralnick resists the idea that one of these identities was the more authentic. In fact both were performances, and Cooke invested all of himself in each. Guralnick seems to have interviewed everyone who ever knew Cooke, but even to his closest friends and his widow, Sam was inscrutable, ''someone who could mask everything but his ambition.'' When he died at 33, shot by the manager of a $3-a-night motel in Los Angeles as he chased a prostitute who had stolen his clothes, no one could reconcile the Sam they knew with this tawdry end. Guralnick lists but does not unravel the conspiracy theories that filled the vacuum.
 The first journey in ''Dream Boogie'' belongs to Sam's father, the Rev. Charles Cook, who in 1933 hitchhiked from Clarksdale, Miss., to Chicago in search of economic opportunity. This is, of course, the same route that the blues traveled in this period, from the acoustic, premodern Delta to the electric, modernist city of the Chess brothers. Cook preached his way north, ''mostly for white folks, they give me food and money.'' Sam, born two years earlier, showed a similar open-mindedness in his crossover from gospel to secular music, and to the white money and adulation that lay on the other side -- a piece of what made America run. 
 The gospel world that young Sam conquered, as the smooth-voiced lead singer of the Soul Stirrers, was profane in everything but the lyrics and the paycheck. Guralnick scrupulously documents the sharp suits, luxury cars, generous women, earthy language and Olympian rivalries that drove the scene. In the 1940's and 50's, gospel was changing just like secular black music, becoming flashier and more sensual and propulsive. As Cooke's protege Bobby Womack said, Sam epitomized this shift, crossing over first within gospel: ''He started bringing young people into the church to the point where it was like a rock 'n' roll show, chicks pulling up their dresses, and he's going out in the crowd and rubbing some girl's leg while he's singing, and she jump straight up in the air! And the preachers all hated it. I mean, the preacher's sitting up there,'' and the preacher ''has a limousine, he's got all the mothers and he's hitting on their daughters, and he's saying, 'It's disgusting.' '' When Sam at 21 fathered three babies by three different women, his elder quartet-mates wrote off the experience as harmless road knocks, as long as it didn't interfere with their business.
 As a business, gospel did not measure up to its art. It is to America's shame that the quartet recordings that spawned so much of our music have virtually no outlet today, despite their instant accessibility and undeniable power. But the racial roles in this economy are not straightforward. The Soul Stirrers recorded for Art Rupe (ne Goldberg). No one protected gospel more religiously, and no one discouraged Cooke's interest in pop more piously. It was his counterpart, Bumps Blackwell, an African-American producer, who prodded Sam to cross over, and who urged the label's R & B songwriters to ''try to write 'white' for the teenage purchaser rather than 'race' lyrics. It seems the white girls are buying the records these days.'' Rupe wanted raw, sanctified gospel; Blackwell and Cooke imagined Sam following Bing Crosby and Johnny Mathis. In turn, after Sam crossed over to pop, he dumped Blackwell for a white manager, Jess Rand, as a way to break into the white market. 
 Sam's relationship with Rand was similarly complicated. Sam liked to test his white manager, booking him in a funky South Side hotel in Chicago or summoning him to Harlem in the middle of the night just so Rand could see him in bed with five women. A rare public declaration on race, which ran as a guest column in The New York Journal-American under Sam's byline, imparted, ''As a Negro I have -- even in the days before I began to achieve some sort of recognition as a performer -- refused jobs which I considered debasing or degrading.'' The article was ghostwritten by Jess Rand. Sam dumped him, too. 
 Cooke boycotted segregated shows, but had no quibble at catering to white audiences with albums of cornball standards, on the industry wisdom that African-Americans didn't buy albums. As in gospel, he crossed over within pop, ping-ponging between church-based soul and deracinated fluff like ''Cupid.'' Like Elvis, he seemed unstained by his own schlock. As he told Womack: ''I want to be black. I'm not going to desert my people.'' But in the real world, he said, if you listen to a black radio station, ''when you turn the corner, that station will go off the air, and you go right to a pop station. That's how powerful it is.'' In the era of 50 Cent, when rappers move white masses by the equivalent of blacking up, such calculation seems quaint, but to Cooke, singing at the time Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, to ignore this audience was to go off the air, to disappear. 
 It is a symptom of our age that most people find any piece of writing too long. So I'll say that Guralnick earns every one of his 750 pages, but in the way Peyton Manning earns his $98 million -- no one could give you more, but you might have other demands on your time or money. Me, I like the full monty, but I'm geeky that way. 
 Guralnick is an insightful and patient listener, divining the subtleties that unite Sam's deep music with the shallow: ''his delicate falsetto, the way he would ride a syllable, elongate a vowel to suggest dimensions of meaning scarcely hinted at in the lyrics, the slight roughening that he could use to suggest intensity of feeling without raising his voice; he employed all of these effects without in any way suggesting, either to the listener or himself, that they were effects, so intrinsic were they to his feeling for the music, to the feelings he wanted to express.'' 
 But like Cooke's friends and associates, we are left trying to grasp a cipher. His cool was what the art historian Robert Farris Thompson calls ''the mask of mind itself.'' We don't know how Sam felt about the white audience he so methodically cultivated, or the women he so tirelessly took to bed; we can't measure the anger he kept hidden. Like Wolff, Guralnick occasionally tries to simplify Cooke's racial politics, undercutting the internal contradictions that are the book's strength. He commits pages to the 1963 March on Washington, yet Cooke wasn't there. While Cooke believed in the movement and lent an anthem, ''A Change Is Gonna Come,'' he avoided alienating his white benefactors. He bet that the future lay in careful racial neutrality, but he bet wrong; while Marvin Gaye cuts a broad figure today, Cooke's voice is absent in today's bedroom jams. 
 To Guralnick, ''what was most extraordinary about Sam Cooke was his capacity for learning, his capacity for imagination and intellectual growth,'' which means he was always in transition, best understood by what he had not yet become. That streak ended at the Hacienda Motel, after an argument involving a prostitute. The most tightly restrained man, he died half-naked, drunk and out of control. ''Lady, you shot me'' were his last words. In swift succession, his wife married Womack, his business changed hands and his brother undertook a tribute tour as ''Sam's good-looking singing brother.'' He had built an empire on myth, pride and suspended antagonisms, and without Sam it was all gone. All but the music.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Undated photo of Sam Cooke performing at the Copacabana in New York. (Photograph by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); FOLKLORE (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RELIGION (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); LITERATURE (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (62%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (62%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: John Leland; Peter Guralnick; Sam (1931-64) Cooke

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



429 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 4699 words

HEADLINE: Che's Second Coming?

BYLINE: By David Rieff. 
David Rieff, a contributing writer, is the author, most recently, of ''At the Point of a Gun: Democratic Dreams and Armed Intervention.''

 BODY:
The Bolivian Congress is an ornate building in the Spanish Colonial style. It is also a study in cognitive dissonance. Located on the Plaza Murillo, one of the central squares of Bolivia's main city, La Paz, it is flanked by the Presidential Palace, the Cathedral and the mausoleum of Bolivia's second president, Andres Santa Cruz, who fought alongside Simon Bolivar. Around these decorous buildings, soldiers in red pseudo-19th-century uniforms stand at attention or march ceremoniously from point to point. Were it not for the fact that most of these young recruits have the broad Indian faces of the Andean altiplano, or high plains, and that those gawking at them in the square are also themselves mostly indigenous, it would be easy to become confused and believe you were in some remote corner of Europe, albeit the Europe of a century ago. 
Inside the Congress, this effect is, if anything, even stronger: marble floors, waiters wearing white shirts and black bow ties, photos on the walls in the office wing of the building, many now yellowing with age, that show previous generations of congressmen among whom there is barely an Indian face to be seen. The burden of this faux-Europeanness seems overwhelming, until, that is, you walk down one of the main corridors and, at its end, find yourself confronted with an enormous, colorized, Madonna-like image of Ernesto (Che) Guevara, Fidel Castro's comrade in arms, the archrevolutionary who died 38 years ago in the foothills of the Bolivian Andes trying to bring a Marxist revolution to Bolivia, then as now the poorest and most racially polarized country in South America.
 ''This is a sanctuary to El Che,'' says Gustavo Torrico, an influential congressman from the radical MAS party, gesturing around his office. (Though mas literally means ''more,'' the Spanish acronym stands for ''Movement Toward Socialism.'') There are not just a few pictures of Che; there are literally dozens of them, big, small and in between: Che with Castro, Che in the field, Che with his daughter in his arms, smiling, smoking, exhorting. The effect is overwhelming. 
 And yet, in Bolivia these days, Che's image is hardly restricted to the office of a few leftist politicians. To the contrary, it is everywhere. It stares down at you from offices and murals on city walls of La Paz and of Bolivia's second-largest city, Cochabamba, in working-class districts and slum communities and university precincts. In Bolivia, Che's image is not a fashion statement, as it is in Western Europe. When you see people wearing Che T-shirts, or sporting buttons with the martyred revolutionary's face, they are in deadly earnest. In Bolivia, only images of the Virgin Mary are more ubiquitous, and even then it's a close-run thing. 
 ''Why do I like Che?'' Evo Morales, MAS's leader and presidential candidate, said in response to my question, looking as if it were the most obvious thing in the world. Morales is the first full-blooded Aymara, Bolivia's dominant ethnic group, to make a serious run for the presidency, which is in itself testimony to the extraordinary marginalization that Bolivian citizens of pure Indian descent, who make up more than half of the population, have endured since 1825, when an independent Bolivia was established. ''I like Che because he fought for equality, for justice,'' Morales told me. ''He did not just care for ordinary people; he made their struggle his own.'' We were sitting in his office in Cochabamba, a building in a condition somewhere between Spartan and derelict that Morales uses as a headquarters when he is in the city but that normally serves as the headquarters of the cocaleros, the coca-leaf growers from the country's remote, lush Chapare region. Morales started in politics as the leader of these cocaleros, and he has pledged that if he wins the presidential election scheduled for Dec. 18, one of his first acts will be to eliminate all penalties for the cultivation of coca, the raw ingredient in cocaine.
 Unlike Che, who was a kind of revolutionary soldier of fortune, Morales does not have to adopt the revolutionary cause of Bolivia. He was born into it 46 years ago, in a tin-mining town in the district of Oruro, high in the Bolivian altiplano. Morales's family history is similar to that of many mining families who lost their jobs in the 1970's and 1980's, when the mines closed, and migrated to the Bolivian lowlands to become farmers, above all of coca leaf. (Limited cultivation of coca in certain indigenous regions is legal in Bolivia, and the cocaleros insist that the coca they grow is used only for ''cultural purposes,'' but the Bolivian government and American drug-enforcement officials say that as much as 90 percent of the coca in Morales's home region, Chapare, makes its way into the international cocaine trade.) As an adolescent and a young man, Morales was a coca farmer, but his political work on behalf of the cocaleros soon propelled him into the leadership of a coalition of radical social movements that constitute the base of the MAS party. 
 How seriously to take Morales's tough talk about drug ''depenalization'' and nationalization of natural resources -- oil, gas and the mines -- is the great question in Bolivian politics today. Many Bolivian observers say they believe that MAS is nowhere near as radical as its rhetoric makes it appear. They note that conservative opponents of Brazil's current leftist president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, also predicted disaster were he to be elected, but that in office Lula has proved to be a moderate social democrat. And MAS's program is certainly much more moderate than many of its supporters would like. Washington, however, is not reassured. Administration officials are reluctant to speak on the record about Morales (the State Department and Pentagon press offices did not reply to repeated requests for an interview), but in private they link him both to narco-trafficking and to the two most militant Latin American leaders: Hugo Chavez, Venezuela's leftist populist military strongman, and Fidel Castro. 
 Rogelio (Roger) Pardo-Maurer IV, the deputy assistant secretary of defense for Western Hemisphere affairs and a senior adviser to Donald Rumsfeld on Latin America, said in a talk last summer at the Hudson Institute in Washington, ''You have a revolution going on in Bolivia, a revolution that potentially could have consequences as far-reaching as the Cuban revolution of 1959.'' What is going on in Bolivia today, he told his audience, ''could have repercussions in Latin America and elsewhere that you could be dealing with for the rest of your lives.'' And, he added, in Bolivia, ''Che Guevara sought to ignite a war based on igniting a peasant revolution.. . .This project is back.'' This time, Pardo-Maurer concluded, ''urban rage and ethnic resentments have combined into a force that is seeking to change Bolivia.'' 
 Morales has become almost as much of a bugbear to the Bush administration and many members of Congress on both sides of the aisle as Chavez or Castro. And for his part, Morales seems to revel in the role. At the summit meeting of the Organization of American States held in Mar del Plata, Argentina, earlier this month, he appeared with Chavez at a huge anti-American and anti-globalization rally just before the meetings began. The two men spoke in front of a huge image of Che Guevara. This is symbolic politics, but it is more than that too. The left is undergoing an extraordinary rebirth throughout the continent; Castro's survival, Chavez's rise, the prospect that the next president of Mexico will be Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the leftist mayor of Mexico City, and the stunning trajectory of Morales himself all testify to that fact. Pardo-Maurer is right that Morales's success reflects both Bolivia's current dire economic conditions and the perception of the indigenous majority that it is finally their time to come to power. But it is also a product of the wider popular mood in Bolivia and, for that matter, in much of contemporary Latin America. 
 For most Bolivians, globalization, or what they commonly refer to as neoliberalism, has failed so utterly to deliver the promised prosperity that some Bolivian commentators I met insisted that what is astonishing is not the radicalization of the population but rather the fact that this radicalization took as long as it did. Bolivia often seems now like a country on the brink of a nervous breakdown. Every day, peasants or housewives or the unemployed erect hundreds of makeshift roadblocks to protest shortages of fuel (a particularly galling affront in a country with vast hydrocarbon resources) or to demand increased subsidies for education or to air any of the dozens of issues that have aroused popular anger. The language of these protests is insistently, defiantly leftist, with ritual denunciations of multinational corporations, of the United States and of the old Bolivian elite, who are white, mostly descendants of Spanish and German settlers. Two presidents were chased out of office in the last two years by popular protests made up largely of MAS supporters: first Gonazalo Sanchez de Losada, then Carlos Mesa. (Since Mesa's government fell in June, the country has been run by a caretaker government overseen by a former chief justice of the supreme court.)
 What distinguishes the situation in Bolivia from that of some of its neighbors is the way that ethnic politics and leftist politics have fused. It is this hybrid movement that Morales has led with such popular success. The hopes of many indigenous Bolivians are now incarnated in Morales's candidacy, and even many members of the old elite, including former President Sanchez de Losada, seem to believe that if he wins, Morales must be given the opportunity to rule.
 When you meet him in person or read transcripts of his speeches, Morales seems like an unlikely vessel for these hopes. Whatever his gifts as an activist, and despite his obvious commitment to his cause, to an outsider, at least, he seems too young, too naive, too provincial to serve as president of Bolivia. And when he talks of depenalizing coca production, as he often does, and insists that there will be nonnarcotic markets for coca leaf in China and Europe, it is hard to know whether he is simply being loyal to the cocalero constituency that first propelled him to prominence or whether he sincerely believes what he is saying. Certainly, such statements have played into the hands of his political enemies within Bolivia and abroad, who routinely accuse him of being in the pay of narco-traffickers -- a charge Morales angrily denies and for which no concrete proof has ever been offered.
 One of Morales's supporters told me, ''Evo is a desconfiado, a man who tends to mistrust people until they show him a reason to think otherwise.'' That, along with the naivete, is certainly the impression he gives. And yet surrounded by his supporters, visibly basking in their affection -- an affection that often seems to border on devotion -- Morales, or Evo, as almost everyone in Bolivia calls him, is a man transformed, a natural orator with extraordinary charisma. It is worrisome to think what the reaction in poor urban neighborhoods and in the altiplano will be if Morales does not become Bolivia's president.
 Certainly, the candidate is starting to behave as if the office will soon be his. A telltale sign of this is the way Morales and MAS, while not repudiating previous statements about the changes they want to make in the Bolivian economy, seem to be leaving the door open to a more moderate approach. Increasingly in speeches and interviews, Morales has taken to emphasizing that when, for example, he speaks of nationalization, he is mainly speaking of Bolivia's reassertion of sovereignty over its natural resources and of partnership with multinational corporations, not, a la Fidel Castro, of the systematic expropriation of the multinationals' interests in Bolivia. Morales commented to me that ''Brazil is an interesting model'' for cooperation between the state and the private sector, and, he added, ''so is China.'' 
 Only on the depenalization of coca production does he remain absolutely adamant and defiant, and in this, it must be said, he enjoys considerable popular support among not just the coca growers but also many Bolivians who believe that the cocaine problem should be addressed principally on the demand side, in the United States and Europe. A popular T-shirt in the markets of La Paz reads, ''Coca leaf is not a drug.''
 Assuming there is no attempt to cancel the elections outright, Morales's most difficult political problem may be that MAS's platform is actually quite a bit more moderate than many of its rank-and-file supporters would like -- or, indeed, than they understand it to be. As Roberto Fernandez Teran, a development economist at the University of San Simon in Cochabamba and an expert on Bolivia's external debt, told me, ''I have no great hope that MAS will make profound changes.'' Senior MAS officials insist, however, that their nationalization program alone would engender profound improvements in the Bolivian economy. By proposing that the Bolivian government renegotiate its contracts with the multinational oil companies, ''we are literally proposing changing the rules of the game,'' said Carlos Villegas, a researcher at the University of San Andres in La Paz and MAS's principal economic spokesman. ''The current contracts say that the multinationals own the resources when they're in the ground and are free to set prices of natural gas and oil once it has been extracted.'' In March, the Bolivian Congress, under pressure from demonstrators, passed a law reasserting national ownership of resources, but, Villegas said, ''it is not being enforced.'' MAS would not only enforce the law; it would also extend its powers.
 Bolivia has considerable oil reserves and, far more crucially, has the second-largest proved reserves of natural gas in South America after Venezuela -- some 54 trillion cubic feet. Talk to ordinary Bolivians, and it often seems as if their profound rage and despair over what is taking place in their country is at least partly due to the gap between Bolivia's natural riches and the poverty of its people. ''We shouldn't be poor'' is the way Morales put it to me. This perception is hardly limited to die-hard MAS supporters. In the campaign ads being run by Morales's two main rivals for the presidency -- Samuel Doria Medina, a wealthy businessman, and Jorge Quiroga, a former president -- each candidate makes populist appeals. Doria Medina, in his ads, says he will ''stand up'' for Bolivia. And lest there be any doubt about what he is referring to, at the end of his ad he looks straight into the camera and says that if elected he will tell the multinationals, ''Gentlemen, the party is over!'' 
 If Petrobras, the oil company that is partly owned by the Brazilian state, can prosper, MAS supporters argue, why can't Bolivia adopt a similar strategy and flourish as a result? In any case, they point out, a large part of the population derives what little hope it has from Bolivia's hydrocarbon reserves. ''The population,'' Carlos Villegas told me, ''is demanding to know why these resources haven't lifted the country out of poverty. And they blame the privatization imposed by international lenders.'' At least according to Villegas's argument, taking back control over oil and natural gas would allow Bolivia to get a fair price and to pay for its industrialization, in the process creating employment and thus alleviating poverty, and escaping the problems that afflict so many resource-rich countries from Gabon to Indonesia. ''Look, this is not a fantasy,'' he said at the end of our interview. ''It's a perfectly feasible, practical program.''
 At least some well-informed outsiders agree. Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel laureate who was formerly the chief economist of the World Bank and is now a professor of economics at Columbia University and a stern critic of many international lending institutions, put it to me this way: ''They could do it.'' If Bolivia abrogated its existing contracts, he said, some of the non-Western oil giants would gladly negotiate new deals on better terms. ''Petronas'' -- the Malaysian state oil company -- ''would come in, China would come in, India would come in.'' If Morales did nationalize the country's oil and gas, the multinational oil companies that currently hold the Bolivian concessions, including Repsol, a Spanish company, and British Gas, would probably sue Bolivia in an international court and try to organize an international boycott. But Stiglitz dismisses that threat: ''If you had three, four, five first-rate companies around the world willing to compete for Bolivia's resources, no boycott would work.''
 Of course, there are strong countervailing views not only to MAS's nationalization program but also to any sweeping criticism of the policies of the principal international lending institutions: the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Inter-American Development Bank. ''People criticize our recommendations,'' said Peter Bate, a spokesman for the IADB. ''But before the international financial institutions intervened, Bolivia's inflation was running at 25,000 percent per year. What should we have done, let that continue?''
 For Jeffrey Sachs, Joseph Stiglitz's colleague at Columbia and a former economic adviser to the Bolivian government, the problem was less the international lending institutions' recommendations than the lack of follow-up on the part of Washington. Gonzalo Sanchez de Losada, the first of the two presidents ousted in Bolivia's recent wave of protests, has said that when he went to see President Bush at the White House in 2002, the president talked of little except Afghanistan. As Sachs put it later in an op-ed piece in The Financial Times, the Bush administration ''proved to be incapable of even the simplest responses to a profound crisis engulfing the region.'' In an e-mail message to me, he said he had ''never seen such incompetence'' as the Bush administration's approach to Latin America, which he characterized as comprising ''neglect, insensitivity, disregard, tone-deafness.'' Sachs cited one damning example in Bolivia: as his government teetered on the verge of collapse in 2003, Sanchez de Losada asked the U.S. government for $50 million in emergency aid. Washington made $10 million available. As Sachs put it bitterly, the decision in effect invited MAS and the social activist movements -- peasants, coca growers, laborers and the unemployed -- ''to finish off the job of bringing down the government.''
 In this, Joseph Stiglitz agrees. ''One of the main stories'' from Latin America's period of austerity measures imposed at the urging of international institutions, he told me, ''is the gap between what was sold and what was delivered.'' In countries like Bolivia, he added, ''people went through a lot of pain, and 20 years later now they don't see any of the benefits. Leaders in the anti-inflation fight gave the countries that followed their recommendations A-pluses. But few of the results in terms of incomes of the average person and poverty reduction had been yielded.''
 Many Bolivians, and certainly almost all MAS supporters, are more than prepared to blame the Americans for much of what went wrong during what Roberto Fernandez Teran, the economist from the University of San Simon, described to me as ''the lost decade of the 1980's and the disappointments of the 1990's.'' A joke you hear often in Bolivia these days sarcastically describes the country's political system as a coalition between the government, the international financial institutions, multinational corporations and la embajada -- the U.S. Embassy. But while it would be unwise to underestimate the force of knee-jerk anti-Americanism in Latin America, the ubiquitousness of leftist sentiments in Bolivia today has more to do, as Joseph Stiglitz points out, with the complete failure of neoliberalism to improve people's lives in any practical sense. It is almost a syllogism: many Bolivians believe (and the economic statistics bear them out) that the demands by international lending institutions that governments cut budgets to the bone and privatize state-owned assets made people's lives worse, not better; the Bolivians believe, also not wrongly, that the U.S. wields extraordinary influence on international financial institutions; and from these conclusions, the appeal of an anti-American, anti-globalization politics becomes almost irresistible to large numbers of people.
 If Bolivians who support Morales and MAS seem drawn to thinking in conspiratorial terms about U.S. actions in the region, the mirror image of this attitude is to be found in Washington. There is a powerful consensus in U.S. government circles that holds that Morales is being bankrolled by Chavez -- a charge that the Bolivian leader flatly denies. Roger Noriega, the former assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, repeatedly made the point during his tenure, echoing background briefings by Pentagon officials. ''It's no secret that Morales reports to Caracas and Havana,'' Noriega said last July, just before leaving office. ''That's where his best allies are.''
 Publicly, Thomas A. Shannon, Noriega's successor, has taken a more low-key approach. But the Bush administration's view of Morales does not appear to have changed significantly. Michael Shifter, a senior fellow at the Inter-American Dialogue, a policy group in Washington, and one of the shrewdest and most experienced American observers of Latin America, told me that he has been struck by the depth of conviction in Washington that Morales is dangerous. ''People talk about him as if he were the Osama bin Laden of Latin America,'' Shifter told me, adding that, after a recent lecture Shifter gave at a military institution, two American officers came up to him and said that Morales ''was a terrorist, a murderer, the worst thing ever.'' Shifter replied that he had seen no evidence of this. ''They told me: 'You should. We have classified information: this guy is the worst thing to happen in Latin America in a long time.''' In Shifter's view, there is now a tremendous sense of hysteria about Morales within the administration and especially at the Pentagon.
 It has happened before. During the 2002 Bolivian elections, when Morales was a first-time candidate little known outside of the country, the U.S. ambassador at the time, Manuel Rocha, stated publicly that if Morales was elected, the U.S. would have to reconsider all future aid. Most observers, and Morales, too, who speaks of the episode with a combination of amusement and satisfaction, say that it got him and MAS at least 20 percent more votes. The current U.S. ambassador, David Greenlee, has been far more circumspect. But if anything, Washington's view of Morales has only hardened. And the reason for that, unsurprisingly, is Hugo Chavez's increasing role. As Michael Shifter puts it, ''There is this tremendous fear that Chavez is living out the Fidel Castro dream of exporting revolution throughout Latin America and destabilizing the region -- something that wasn't done during the cold war and is now being financed by Venezuelan oil.''
 For his part, Morales is unapologetic and, when pressed, grows more rather than less defiant. At his rallies, Cuban flags are ubiquitous, as are Che Guevara T-shirts and lapel pins. But he is at some pains to make the point that neither Venezuela nor Cuba is a model for the kind of society he wants Bolivia to become. Castro and Chavez, he told me, are his friends, but so are Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations, President Jacques Chirac of France and Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain. Morales also makes a point of emphasizing that the era of ''state socialism'' is past. Even when he is talking about the nationalization of Bolivia's natural resources, which with the depenalization of coca cultivation is the central plank of his campaign, Morales is at pains to point out that the model he has in mind is closer to Brazil's state-owned oil giant, Petrobras, than to anything Castro would endorse. 
 When you spend time with Morales, it is hard not to conclude that he wants to have it both ways where his links with Chavez and Castro are concerned. For while he denies any particular affinity with either regime, there is no doubt that these two ''radical'' leaders are the ones to whom he has turned time and again for advice. Certainly, Hugo Chavez has made no secret of the sympathy he feels for Morales's campaign, while the state-run Cuban press has lavished a great deal of attention on Morales. MAS seems unsure of how to present these links. In Morales's campaign biography, there are angry sentences denying a connection to Chavez. But on the same page where these lines appear, there is a photograph in which Morales and the Venezuelan strongman are posed together.
 On the campaign trail, ''populist'' doesn't even begin to describe the Morales style. He seems genuinely indifferent to creature comforts. He also seems committed to a kind of political campaigning that more closely resembles the labor activism that catapulted him to fame than to political campaigning in the classic sense. Morales has drawn a number of important Bolivian economists like Carlos Villegas to his side, but he seems most at ease among his rank-and-file supporters. The overwhelming majority of MAS activists appear to be volunteers, and while they seem to view Morales's candidacy almost as a sacred cause, it quickly becomes obvious that most have little experience in electoral politics. Morales's two bodyguards didn't seem to have the first clue about how to protect their charge. He travels without any serious security, almost always moving from place to place in a single S.U.V., accompanied by only a driver, an aide and whomever he is meeting with at that particular moment. MAS campaign offices are almost all utterly unadorned except for the usual campaign paraphernalia and posters and images of the candidate, his running mate and, inevitably, Che.
 Even without apparent resources, MAS is surging, and the most recent polls put Morales ahead of his two principal rivals. Yet many Bolivians, including some who are sympathetic to MAS, say privately that Morales remains something of an unknown quantity. Shifter suggested to me that Morales is ''still a work in progress,'' and a number of well-informed Bolivians I met agreed. The problem, of course, is that given the severity of the Bolivian crisis, the militancy of so much of the population and the impossibly high level of expectations that a MAS government would engender among Bolivia's poor and its long-marginalized indigenous populations, there is very little time. It is quite accurate to speak of the rebirth of the left in Latin America, but the sad truth is that the movement's return is more a sign of despair than of hope. Almost 40 years ago, one self-proclaimed revolutionary, Che Guevara, died alone and abandoned in the Bolivian foothills. Today, another self-proclaimed revolutionary, Evo Morales, could become the country's first indigenous and first authentically leftist president. But as was true of Che himself, it is by no means clear that Morales has any hope of fulfilling the expectations of his followers.
 On a stage in a soccer stadium in Mar del Plata, before a rapturous crowd and with Hugo Chavez beside him, or on the campaign trail back home, surrounded by people who look as if they would give their lives for him, Morales exudes confidence. And the more Washington makes plain its opposition to him, the greater the fervor he inspires in his supporters. But if the history of the left in Latin America teaches anything, it is that charisma is never enough. The fate of Che Guevara, who failed to foment a Latin American revolution and left no coherent societal model behind for his followers, should have taught us that already.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 4, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 20 about Bolivia referred incorrectly to the city Cochabamba. It is the country's third-largest, behind Santa Cruz de la Sierra and La Paz, not the second-largest.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The official campaign kickoff for the Movement Toward Socialism party in La Paz last month. Che Guevara (on banner) has become the movement's patron saint.
The candidate: Evo Morales, the first full-blooded indigenous Bolivian to run for the presidency. He makes the Bush administration nervous.
 The Movement Toward Socialism rally in La Paz. The movement's ranks have swelled as the country's coffers haven't. (Photographs by Kathryn Cook/Group M35, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (73%); LIBERALISM (67%) 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (72%) David Rieff; Evo Morales; George W (Pres) Bush; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Fidel (Pres) Castro

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (99%); EUROPE (91%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (58%) Bolivia; Bolivia; Cuba; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



430 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: The Holiday Crunch

 BODY:
Got that congested, tightly restricted feeling? It could be a chest cold, but we're guessing that you might also be feeling the effect of being stuck on one of the city's many impassable holiday streets. Gridlock, a common New York complaint, is especially severe from Thanksgiving week until January -- a powerful seasonal malady marked by a headache, rising blood pressure and an impending feeling of tardiness. 
 The antidote, of course, is to take mass transit. But with the city awash in tourists and shoppers, broader measures are required.
To its credit, the city has come up with a plan. Devised by the Department of Transportation and the Police Department, it will establish gridlock alert days and create dedicated, no-turn lanes along Fifth and Sixth Avenues. The police also intend to enforce thru-traffic rules in Midtown. Meanwhile, tempting incentives are being offered to those using public transportation, including discounted -- and even a few free -- MetroCards. 
 All of that is welcome. But we hope that Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who in his first term demonstrated a knack for finding innovative ways to improve the quality of life, will continue to explore ways to better manage New York's traffic problem. It's encouraging that ferry terminals are being rebuilt on Manhattan's East Side and that rapid bus routes are on the way. But those improvements might have an even greater impact as part of a larger plan that includes ''congestion pricing,'' which imposes fees on vehicles entering the most heavily-trafficked parts of the city. Such an ambitious scheme obviously can't be put together overnight, but there's no time like the present to begin thinking about it.
 Congestion pricing has so far been a success in London. For the last three years, the city has used a system of strategically placed video cameras to track license plates and bill drivers in parts of central London up to $14 a day, with hefty fines for late payment. Cars owners who live in the affected zone are given large discounts.
 The result has been a 40 percent reduction in traffic congestion, and now the program is being expanded beyond the original zone. Even London merchants, who initially opposed the strategy because they feared it would keep customers away, now support it. Many, in fact, have reported increases in business.
 Despite concerns about privacy and cost, San Francisco and Boston are weighing versions of congestion pricing. A leading business group, the Partnership for New York, has been studying how it might work here. 
 Having fewer cars and trucks could offer enormous benefits in New York beyond the economic bonus of extending the life of its aging streets. Carbon monoxide emissions in the city, mostly caused by vehicles, would be reduced. Workers and city residents might finally be relieved of some of the white-knuckled stress of getting around town. 
 The program would be expensive to administer, which means that revenue gains would be minimal. To profit from traffic, the city will have to pursue other avenues, like a commuter tax. But the mere thought of steadily moving traffic where gridlock has prevailed makes one giddy with anticipation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); THANKSGIVING (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (75%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (65%); FERRIES (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); CARBON MONOXIDE (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); EMISSIONS (50%) Roads and Traffic; Editorials; Thanksgiving Day; Christmas; Police; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%) Transportation Department (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (72%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



431 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: Politics as Usual, And Then Some

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DAVY CROCKETT was so confident of his own judgment that he lived by the motto ''Be sure you're right, then go ahead.''
 For years now, critics have complained that the Bush administration is equally cocksure, pursuing its political and ideological goals even when they are in conflict with data collected by agencies, analysis provided by professionals and procedures set by law.
Last week, this issue seemed to gain intensity as reports of the politicization of the government made the news almost every day. The pileup underscored what seems to be a consensus in political and academic circles -- not only among Democrats but also among Republicans who want Mr. Bush to take a strong hand in shaping policy -- that this administration seems more willing than its recent predecessors to bypass the bureaucracy to put its mark on government. 
 ''The Bush administration is certainly not the first administration to do this kind of thing,'' said Mickey Edwards, a former Republican congressman from Oklahoma who is now a lecturer at Princeton, ''but they seem much more heavy-handed about it.'' 
 All week the Democrats tried to drive home their argument that the White House had skewed intelligence to make the case to the public, to Congress and to the United Nations for going to war in Iraq, but other news developments played to the politicization drumbeat, too. On Monday, the nonpartisan examiners at the Government Accountability Office concluded that the Food and Drug Administration had relied on politics and ideology rather than solid science when it rejected over-the-counter sales of Plan B, the ''morning after'' contraceptive. The next day, the inspector general of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting found that the agency's former chairman, Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, had repeatedly crossed bounds established by law intended to protect public television and radio from political interference.
 In each instance, the administration rejected accusations of political malfeasance. Officials at the F.D.A. and Mr. Tomlinson said they had been pilloried by partisan investigators who had not looked at all the evidence. And President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney, accusing critics of undermining the war effort, gave strong speeches denying that anyone had hyped intelligence about whether Saddam Hussein had stockpiles of banned weapons and ties to Al Qaeda. 
 The White House rejects any suggestion that the administration has acted improperly in any of these instances. Dana M. Perino, a spokeswoman, said: ''As the chief executive, it is entirely appropriate that the president develop policies for implementation by the federal government. His policies are neither partisan nor political, but created to protect the American people, grow the economy and improve health and welfare.'' 
 There is no question that other presidents have also tried to break down the firewalls meant to keep politics out of parts of the government. 
 President Bill Clinton's advisers rejected professional estimates from budget analysts about how much his abortive health care initiative would cost. His vice president, Al Gore, drove some environmental researchers out of government positions because their views on global warming and ozone depletion clashed with his own. 
 In the Reagan and first Bush administrations, annual deficits almost always turned out to be far larger than the White House Office of Management and Budget had projected when the White House submitted its budget.
 In 1971, when monthly unemployment figures were worse than President Richard M. Nixon wanted to acknowledge, the White House ordered the commissioner of labor statistics to stop holding news conferences to interpret the data.
 Joel D. Aberbach, director of the Center for American Politics and Public Policy at the University of California, Los Angeles, says the normal government processes have become increasingly if not steadily politicized in the last 40 years or so. 
 ''It has happened in fits and starts,'' Mr. Aberbach said. Nixon, he said, tried aggressively to put a political stamp on government. The Ford and Carter administrations were much less political, but then Ronald Reagan took politicization even farther than Nixon. President George H. W. Bush had less of a political agenda, Mr. Aberbach said. But Mr. Clinton ran the White House like a permanent campaign, and ''the people in this administration seem to think they know all the answers.''
 The news last week, at least in the view of the president's critics, seemed to be part of a pattern.
 In August, the Justice Department demoted a statistician who had worked there for 23 years because, the statistician claimed, he refused to withhold data about racial profiling by police officers.
 Last year, referring to matters like climate change and embryonic stem cells, more than 60 prominent scientists signed a statement saying the administration had ''misrepresented scientific knowledge and misled the public about the implications of its policies.'' 
 Perhaps the most striking example of the administration's bypassing the bureaucracy to accomplish a political goal occurred in late 2003 when the Medicare actuary, Richard S. Foster, was told by his politically appointed boss that he would be fired if he gave Congress his best estimate of the cost of the administration's prescription-drug plan. If he had told the truth -- that his projections showed the bill would cost $500 billion to $600 billion over 10 years, not $400 billion, as the administration was saying publicly -- the bill surely would not have passed in the House, Republicans and Democrats agree.
 Three former high administration officials -- Richard A. Clarke, the White House counterterrorism chief; Paul H. O'Neill, Mr. Bush's first treasury secretary; and John J. DiIulio Jr., who headed the president's office of faith-based initiatives -- complained publicly after they left the government that the administration had repeatedly let politics trump sound policy analysis.
 For the most part, supporters of Mr. Bush do not deny that his administration has put an extra dose of politics in the government. They approve of it, even if some might draw the line before he draws his. Some say they would go even further, although no one would go as far as calling it acceptable to lead the country into war based on a lie, if that turns out to be the case. 
 Michael Franc, vice president for government relations at the Heritage Foundation, said that presidential appointees ''see a lot of people who are their political enemies, who are in top positions and who are trying to impede what they want to accomplish.'' 
 The administration seems to be influenced, at least in part, by an innate mistrust of the civil service and the intelligence establishment, which many Republicans believe to be Democratic in outlook.
 Charles O. Jones, emeritus professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, recalled that ''the same things that are being said about Bush in this regard were said about the Reagan administration and the Nixon administration.'' 
 ''Most Republican presidents,'' Mr. Jones said, ''come into office believing that if they're going to get anything done in an entrenched bureaucracy, if they're going to go in a direction that suits their politics and their policy objectives, then they're going to have to find some way to get control of the bureaucracy.''
 Randy Simmons, the chairman of the political science department at Utah State University, who describes himself as a libertarian, said he had firsthand experience of how an entrenched bureaucracy can thwart political officials who want to make changes.
 At the beginning of the Reagan administration, Mr. Simmons said, he joined the Interior Department as a policy analyst under the conservative secretary, James G. Watt, and was under instructions to find budget cuts through the department. ''We were resisted at every turn by the bureaucracy,'' Mr. Simmons said. ''They all had political constituencies. The Bureau of Mines had a constituency. The Bureau of Land Management had a constituency. The cuts were mostly not made.''
 Donald F. Kettl, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania, offered an explanation for the Bush approach: ''The facts are rarely 100 percent clear. There is almost always uncertainty and a need for interpretation. As long as that's the case, ideology is awfully handy because it provides a way to interpret the fuzzy area between what we know and what we don't know.''
 With the politicization overload of last week, there was one reminder that at least a few islands of impartiality lie in the sea of partisan polarization.
 Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, a former economist in the Bush White House who became director of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office nearly three years ago, announced that he planned to leave government at the end of the year. In his tenure, Mr. Holtz-Eakin reported that the Republican tax cuts and spending plans would do little or nothing to stimulate economic growth. He found that the tax cuts were skewed heavily in favor of the wealthiest Americans. His office raised doubts about proposals to partly privatize Social Security, concluded that abolishing the estate tax would reduce charitable donations and calculated that allowing same-sex marriages would slightly increase federal revenues. 
 In short, Mr. Holtz-Eakin adhered strictly to Budget Office's tradition of sticking to data. As committed as he was personally to conservative economics and Republican politics, he was a constant thorn in the side of the White House and the Republican leaders in Congress.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hear This -- Dick Cheney on ''Meet the Press'' in 2002, making the case for war. (Photo by Alex Wong/NBC, via Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%); MISCONDUCT (67%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%) United States Politics and Government; Bureaucratic Red Tape

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%); BILL CLINTON (79%); DICK CHENEY (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) David E Rosenbaum; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



432 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Power Couple; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: America and China: Partners, if Not Friends

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
SOMETIMES, past really is prologue. 
 Today's meeting here between President Bush and the Chinese leader Hu Jintao seems shadowed by a visit, made early in 1979, by Deng Xiaoping, who was barnstorming America to celebrate the historic agreement normalizing relations between the two countries.
At a stop in suburban Atlanta, Deng toured a Ford factory that made more cars in a single month than China produced in a year. 
 Aware of his country's economic inferiority, Deng, then emerging as China's paramount leader, said he hoped to transform China into an industrial power by the distant year of 2000. ''We in China are faced with the task of transforming our backwardness and catching up promptly with the advanced countries of the world,'' he said. ''We want to learn from you.''
 Twenty-six years later, this policy of economic engagement between China and the developed world remains largely unchanged. China still wants trade, technology, expertise and investment to help create a modern and prosperous society. But China's roaring economic success has altered the equation. Now, Mr. Hu must add a disclaimer to Deng's pitch: We're really not trying to take over the world. 
 ''Facts have proved that China's development will not stand in the way of anyone, nor will it pose any threat to anyone,'' Mr. Hu said Thursday in South Korea. ''Instead, it will only do good to peace, stability and prosperity in the world.''
 Perhaps, but the meeting of Mr. Bush and Mr. Hu comes as friction over issues like America's record trade deficit with China is rising. 
 From China's vantage point, the pressures that propelled Deng are undiminished, but the nation's increasing wealth has made it harder for Chinese leaders to claim the latitude given to developing countries in areas like environmental and worker protections and civil liberties. 
 In fact, China is effectively two economies. It is a manufacturing goliath, a major engine for worldwide economic growth that has doubled its foreign trade in just three years. But roughly 500 million of China's 1.3 billion people still live on less than $2 a day and the overall population is aging rapidly, in a country where the social safety net is almost nonexistent. 
 Chinese leaders have made 2020 the target year for achieving their goal of a ''well-off society,'' and they realize that economic ties with America are critical to getting there.
 China ''must maintain a close relationship with the United States if its modernization efforts are to succeed,'' wrote Wang Jisi, a leading Chinese expert on Sino-American relations, in the September/October issue of Foreign Affairs. ''Indeed, a cooperative partnership with Washington is of primary importance to Beijing.''
 Mr. Wang said he believed that the post-9/11 cooperation between the two countries in fighting terrorism has created a basic stability in the relationship. And he said their economic interdependence means that if one suffers, so, most likely, will the other. But he also described the relationship as ''beset by more profound differences than any other bilateral relationship between major powers in the world today.'' 
 Among other problems, he said, China's rising prosperity had made it inevitable that it would strengthen its military. This has alarmed leaders in America, among them Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, who recently made a speech questioning double-digit percentage increases in Chinese military spending. The concern of some Asia experts is that the arms buildup in the region is escalating tensions with Japan, and increasing the chance of conflict over Taiwan. 
 China has responded with repeated reassurances, from Mr. Hu and others, of a ''peaceful rise.'' In a recent speech, Zheng Bijian, an architect of the ''peaceful rise'' formulation, called 1979 China's watershed year. In that year, Mr. Zheng said, the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan, ''under the banner of 'world revolution' that was a dead end.'' China under Deng, he added, chose to open up to the outside world. (Mr. Zheng did not mention that in 1979 China also engaged in a brief border war with Vietnam.)
 The development challenges in China remain so enormous, Mr. Zheng said, that ''we have no time, no energy and no need, therefore, to threaten any other people and nation.''
 Development is still the centerpiece of China's foreign policy. Like Deng, Mr. Hu has made economic development tours in recent years. He has visited Africa, Europe and South America, proposing military exchanges, lucrative trade deals and promising that trade with China will be a win-win proposition. Topping his wish list are the energy resources, like oil and natural gas, needed to fuel China's growth.
 But Mr. Hu's audience is growing more skeptical, in the face of the environmental damage being caused by Chinese companies around the world, which are also helping to finance conflicts in countries like Sudan and Zimbabwe. 
 ''If you look more carefully, here is what you see: a rising power exploiting other countries' natural resources, spoiling the global environment, making economic deals but looking away from serious government mistreatment of its citizens and not delivering on promises,'' Elizabeth Economy, director of Asia studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, wrote recently in The International Herald Tribune. 
 Economic and military power are not the only issues in the Sino-American relationship. The Bush administration wants Mr. Hu to embrace political reform. In a speech in Japan on Wednesday, Mr. Bush warned that Chinese citizens would one day demand political freedom. But Chinese leaders are far more concerned with social stability in their rapidly changing country than they are with individual rights. 
 For now, the relationship still revolves around managing the consequences of China's growth, which can be seen everywhere in America. For example, the car plant Deng visited in 1979 is still open, but Ford is reducing the size of its North American workforce, even as it expands in China. China manufactured 13,000 cars in 1979; last year, the number exceeded five million. 
 The belief that America is losing jobs unfairly to China is one reason Congress is expected to begin debating an anti-China trade tariff next year. Then again, Deng ended his tour with a visit to Boeing, in suburban Seattle. Today, the aviation company has billions of dollars of China contracts. And many of the cheap consumer goods Americans want are made in China.
 Experts run the gamut in predicting the course of relations between China and the United States. But one prediction that turned out wrong was made in an article in The New York Times in 1979: namely, that Deng's economic overture to America would have limited impact because China economy was too backward to take off.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Yahoo! -- In 1979, Deng Xiaoping, the Chinese leader, came to America and said his country was open for business. (Photo by Brent Frerck/Bettmann -- Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); TRENDS (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); AGING TRENDS (60%) United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HU JINTAO (90%) Jim Yardley; George W (Pres) Bush; Hu Jintao (Pres); Deng Xiaoping (1904-97)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) China; Beijing (China); China

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



433 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; Monumental Expansion for the Empire of Jeep; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Grand Cherokee: Refining the Rugged

BYLINE: By DAN CARNEY

 BODY:
REMEMBER the 90's? Is it too soon to be nostalgic for the quaint era of Bill Clinton and Newt Gingrich, Whitewater and Y2K, impeachment hearings and Internet stock bubbles, George Costanza and the Jeep Grand Cherokee?
 For much of the decade, ''Seinfeld'' dominated the airwaves, and starting in 1992 Grand Cherokees seemed to shade every suburban driveway where a Ford Explorer wasn't casting its shadow. Jerry Seinfeld described his show as being ''about nothing''; likewise, from today's perspective, the sport utility craze of the 90's, like most fading fads, seems like much ado about very little. 
 Many S.U.V. haters fervently believe that the 4x4 mania has cooled because they turned public opinion against the notion of using off-roaders as family cars. Yet the shift has surely had as much to do with the short shelf life of fashion as with the sudden arrival of environmental consciousness (or consciences) among Americans.
 Mr. Seinfeld put his TV schtick on mothballs because it wasn't fresh anymore. So it may be with plastic-cladded vehicles that let suburbanites pose as crocodile hunters. 
 The challenge then, was to make the latest Grand Cherokee seem relevant and appealing to consumers no longer in thrall to Jeep's reputation for ruggedness. Against a wave of decidedly more carlike competitors, Jeep's decision makers opted to make subtle improvements that enhance the vehicle's road-going appeal.
 The result is a vehicle that, since a redesign for 2005, is much more refined, sophisticated and comfortable than its predecessors. Still, while each previous generation of Grand Cherokee reasserted class leadership, the field is much tougher now. 
 There has been no doubt about the Grand Cherokee's off-road prowess, but many of the factors that helped to make this Jeep such a mountain goat also made it somewhat beastly on paved roads.
 Thus, the solid front axle has been replaced with an independent axle that gives a much smoother ride. The old recirculating-ball steering, with its considerable free play, poor on-center feel and slow response -- not necessarily bad things when crawling over boulders -- has yielded to a quick and accurate rack-and-pinion system. 
 Powertrains have also been upgraded. With three available engines, potential buyers are likely to find one that feels just right, from the more affordable, less thirsty V-6 (rated at 22 m.p.g. on the highway) to a 4.7-liter V-8 and a higher-performance 5.4-liter Hemi V-8, which cranks out 330 horsepower.
 The 3.7-liter V-6 replaces a hoary, coarse in-line 6. The Hemi can run on four cylinders when cruising, so it barely burns more gas on the highway than the smaller V-8. 
 And if you want a Grand Cherokee quicker than a Porsche Cayenne Turbo (or so Jeep says), stay tuned for the 420-horsepower SRT8 that goes on sale early next year.
 The V-6 is matched to a lighter-duty transmission than the V-8's. Both are five-speed automatics. 
 If this array doesn't cover enough possible customers, consider the drivetrains. While Jeeps are renowned for their four-wheel drive, plenty of people are happier with a plain old rear drive setup -- those who live in the South, for instance, or tow trailers long-distance -- so two-wheel drive versions are available.
 If you choose four-wheel drive, your job still isn't done, because there are three ways to send power to the wheels. Both Quadra-Trac systems (called I and II) are full-time all-wheel-drive setups that require no action from the driver. The third system, Quadra-Drive II, is a more sophisticated permanent four-wheel-drive unit with a computerized transfer case to distribute power to the front and rear, along with computer sensors that automatically lock the differentials when traction is low.
 My test model, a 2005 Limited, had a price of $43,570 and included the Hemi engine, navigation and DVD entertainment systems. 
 The superb leather seats, communicative steering and smooth highway ride make the Limited as pleasing for summertime family trips as it is for winter runs to the ski slopes.
 While the new Grand Cherokee is five inches longer than the old one, it remains nimble. Bigger, bulkier S.U.V.'s can carry more passengers and cargo, but can't squeeze between boulders or trees with the Jeep's agility. That same nimbleness serves the Grand Cherokee well when slipping into compact parking spaces at Wegmans.

INSIDE TRACK: The best Grand Cherokee ever, though the audience may be tuning out.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The newly domesticated Grand Cherokee acts civilized when it leaves the woods. (Photographs for The New York Times by Dan Carney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); IMPEACHMENT (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks 

ORGANIZATION: Jeep/eagle Division of Chrysler Motor Co

PERSON: JERRY SEINFELD (77%); NEWT GINGRICH (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%) Dan Carney

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



434 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: BUSH, IN BEIJING, FACES A WARINESS ON U.S. CONCERNS

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sunday, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
President Bush began a one-day visit here on Sunday with a first set of meetings with President Hu Jintao of China to defuse a host of tensions, even as many in Beijing argue that he will be able to apply little true pressure on the world's fastest-rising power. 
 In a brief exchange of prepared comments after conferring at the Great Hall of the People on the edge of Tiananmen Square, Mr. Bush and Mr. Hu committed themselves to improving their relationship, but also staked out their positions in clear terms.
 Mr. Hu said he intended to gradually achieve balanced trade between China and the United States, a statement that made it clear that the record trade surpluses that Beijing enjoys would be a part of the economic landscape for some time to come. 
 He said China was willing to step up its protection on intellectual property rights and help on counterterrorism, but he reiterated that on Taiwan, he would brook no compromise. ''We will by no means tolerate Taiwan independence,'' he told Mr. Bush, at a moment the administration has been wary of China's missile buildup along the coast opposite Taiwan. 
 Mr. Bush spoke quickly, his voice tight. He thanked China for ''taking the lead'' in disarmament talks with North Korea, and noted that the North Koreans had agreed in principle to give up their nuclear weapons and programs. ''The United States expects them to honor that commitment,'' he said, and without reference to specific human rights concerns he said ''we encourage the Chinese to continue to make a historic transition to greater freedom.''
 In their remarks, neither leader made reference to Iraq, but a defiant-sounding Mr. Bush, stopping at Osan Air Base south of Seoul before arriving in Beijing on Saturday, told cheering American troops, ''We will stay in the fight until we have achieved the victory that our brave troops have fought for.'' Those remarks came just hours after a raucous debate over Iraq strategy unfolded in the House of Representatives. 
 But in a sign of how much Iraq has dominated Mr. Bush's weeklong tour of Asia, he only vaguely alluded to North Korea in his forceful half-hour speech, delivered just 48 miles from the militarized border between the Koreas, where he stopped on his way to Beijing. Nor did he mention the stockpile of suspected nuclear weapons that the North boasts about and that the C.I.A. believes has expanded since the war in Iraq began. China is the key player in Mr. Bush's effort to find a diplomatic way to entice North Korea to give up those weapons. 
 Mr. Bush arrived in Beijing amid evidence that China has little intention of speeding the decontrol of its currency, which Mr. Bush has said fuels the country's trade surplus, or of curtailing its crackdown on the media and on academic and religious freedoms. On Sunday morning, he underscored his concerns about China's crackdown on religion by attending a service at the Gangwashi Church, one of the few state-approved and state-monitored congregations in the country. 
 That visit was a highly symbolic one: His huge motorcade -- more than 50 cars -- took him to the church, off an alley near Tiananmen Square. He took part in a traditional Protestant service and signed the guest book with the words, ''May God bless the Christians of China.''
 The church was carefully selected -- Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice went there earlier this year -- and emerging from it, Mr. Bush chose his words carefully: ''You know, it wasn't all that long ago that people were not allowed to worship openly in this society. My hope is that the government of China will not fear Christians who gather to worship openly. A healthy society is a society that welcomes all faiths and gives people a chance to express themselves through worship with the Almighty.''
 White House officials on the trip say that the Chinese government rejected the idea of a joint news conference for the two leaders, eliminating any chance that Mr. Hu would have to answer questions about the pace of democratization.
 In a measure of the wariness felt by the Chinese, the government said that it could only guarantee television coverage for Mr. Bush's visit when he goes bicycling with Olympic athletes on Sunday.
 Mr. Hu may soon face an American audience. He said he would travel to the United States early next year for a previously scheduled visit that was postponed by Hurricane Katrina.
 Aboard Air Force One, Michael Green, head of Asian affairs for the National Security Council, said Saturday, ''We've made it clear to our Chinese hosts that the president's message is one that is positive about U.S.-China relations and should be heard by all Chinese citizens -- just as when President Hu comes to the United States, his message is heard in full by the American people.''
 The state-controlled media in China ignored Mr. Bush's speech in Kyoto, Japan, on Wednesday, in which he cited Taiwan's democracy as a model for the mainland and argued that China was discovering ''that once the door to freedom is opened even a crack, it cannot be closed.''
 That critique was relatively muted compared to the days when Mr. Bush spoke of China as a ''strategic competitor.'' Officials from both countries now describe relations as stable, even warm, arguing that the two powers now manage their differences pragmatically. Mr. Bush and Mr. Hu appear at least temporarily in sync on how to handle Taiwan and North Korea, Bush administration officials and Chinese analysts said.
 ''I think the president has an optimistic view about how China is moving,'' Mr. Green said last week. 
 If so, that may be in part because an ebbing debate within the Bush administration about whether the United States should try to contain China's economic and military reach. 
 Foreign policy experts in China argue that even some neoconservatives in the administration, including Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, have come to accept China's rising economic and political influence as a fact that Washington must learn to manage rather than challenge.
 Senior policy aides in the administration also say the differences between the countries seem easier to address now than at any time in Mr. Bush's presidency. But officials caution that festering economic and political tensions could still severely strain bilateral ties.
 In what appeared to be an effort to calm economic anxieties, the Chinese have agreed to purchase 70 Boeing 737 airliners, Mr. Green said as Mr. Bush arrived in Beijing on Saturday evening. Neither the Boeing Company nor the Chinese government made a formal announcement of the deal, however, and similar promises have been made during other presidential visits, only to be altered after the visit.
 Stephen J. Hadley, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, tried to quell expectations for the trip by declaring in Washington last week that Mr. Bush sought no ''deliverables'' to bring home, a phrase that apparently embraced both diplomatic and economic achievements, including an accord for China to let its currency float more quickly. 
 He is unlikely to get any: in the days before Mr. Bush arrived, the Chinese police detained or arrested religious leaders. There is no sign that Beijing intends to release anyone on the list of human rights cases Mr. Bush gave to Mr. Hu in September, when they met in New York.
 Although Mr. Bush said in Kyoto that market-oriented economic policies would eventually lead to political freedoms in China, the country has moved in the opposite direction under Mr. Hu. Since taking control of the Communist Party in late 2002, he has jailed journalists, rights activists and lawyers, and put tighter controls on the news media and on many outspoken intellectuals. 
 Human rights groups and others devoted to the rule of law, environmental awareness and other causes have been harassed or shut down. 
 Chinese dissidents fear that the situation will only get worse after Mr. Bush's trip, when the leadership feels less pressure.
 Another source of tension is China's currency policy. Under heavy American pressure, China dropped a fixed peg between its currency, the yuan, and the dollar in July. But it allows only minuscule daily swings in the currency values, far less than the administration says is necessary to correct a growing trade imbalance.
 Chinese officials argue that manufacturers have paper-thin profit margins in a competitive export environment. Officials fear that anything other than incremental currency moves could threaten stability.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Great Hall of the People, President Bush and President Hu Jintao appeared briefly on Sunday, laying out their positions on trade and rights. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)(pg. 1)
 President Bush joined other leaders wearing traditional robes of the host country yesterday at the close of an Asian-Pacific economic meeting in Pusan, South Korea. They were, from left, Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Ricardo Lagos of Chile, Donald Tsang of Hong Kong, John Howard of Australia and Alejandro Toledo of Peru. (Photo by Charles Dharapak/Associated Press)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); RELIGION (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (71%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (68%); TERRORISM (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (68%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%); DISARMAMENT (65%); IRAQ WAR (63%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Freedom of Religion; International Trade and World Market; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); HU JINTAO (94%); JOHN HOWARD (59%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%) Joseph Kahn; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Hu Jintao (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (96%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); TAIWAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%) China; South Korea; North Korea; Iraq; Taiwan; China

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



435 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Pledges Exceed Goal as Pakistan Quake Relief Effort Races Against Winter

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA and DAVID ROHDE

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
The government of Pakistan exceeded its financing target to rebuild its earthquake shattered north, as delegates from 75 donor nations and institutions gathered here on Saturday and promised to open their purse strings to the tune of $5.8 billion for long-term reconstruction.
 The World Bank and Asian Development Bank pledged $1 billion each. With a promise to dole out $573 million, Saudi Arabia turned out to be the biggest contributing country, followed by the United States, which announced a pledge of $510 million, nearly tripling what it has already promised for earthquake relief. Washington's commitment includes a target of $100 million from the private sector. Pakistan's neighbor and archrival, India, has promised $25 million. 
The Pakistani prime minister, Shaukat Aziz, told reporters after the donor conference that the $5.827 billion pledged included soft loans, cash and in-kind donations. How much of it is new money, separate from what was already pledged for relief operations, has yet to be determined. ''This was a very successful day for Pakistan,'' which had hoped for $5.2 billion, he said. The reconstruction pledges are to pay for the government's efforts to repair schools, hospitals, and roads and, in some cases, rebuild entire towns. The Pakistani president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, told donors here that his government would offer cash and engineering guidance to enable the homeless to rebuild their houses. The Oct. 8 earthquake killed more than 73,000 people and rendered an estimated 500,000 families homeless. 
 General Musharraf promised accountability as the money is spent. He also called on India to deliver political relief on the feud between the countries over Kashmir, the Himalayan province that India and Pakistan claim and the region hit hardest by the earthquake. ''Let this be the Indian donation to Kashmir,'' he said.
 The Indian minister of state for external affairs, E. Ahamed, countered that his country could ''resolve all issues'' as long as there was ''an atmosphere free from terrorism and violence.'' India blames Pakistan for giving guns and training to militants fighting Indian rule in Kashmir. 
 The success of the long-term reconstruction financing drive stands in stark contrast to the United Nations' appeal for emergency relief aid: five weeks after the fact, barely 30 percent of the $550 million that the United Nations requested has been promised by foreign donors. 
 In the heart of the earthquake zone, north of the comforts of the donors' conference, winter snow and clouds are expected to cut off more than 200,000 earthquake survivors in high altitude villages from most outside aid in two to three weeks, aid workers said. Men are demanding tools to rebuild their homes and save their families from cold, slow deaths.
 ''There is no road, there is no transportation system, there is no communications system,'' said Sherafat Hussain, whose hamlet can now be reached only by helicopter. ''Death is dancing everywhere.''
 Five weeks after the earthquake in northern Pakistan, one of the most complex relief operations ever mounted remains short of cash and under enormous strain. Aid workers and Pakistani officials say progress has been made, but their efforts may still not be enough to prevent thousands of earthquake survivors from perishing in freezing winter weather.
 ''The more we go on, the more we see that needs to be done,'' said Jessica Barry of the International Committee of the Red Cross. ''We still feel we are racing against time.''
 Across a mountainous area the size of Maryland, dozens of bulldozers, more than 100 helicopters and tens of thousands of Pakistani soldiers have created one of the most complex, expensive and fragile relief supply chains ever established. Dozens of helipads, field hospitals and supply depots now dot a rugged area closed to the outside world six weeks ago. 
 Signs of progress are clear. After a helicopter shortage slowed initial rescue efforts, aid workers now say they have enough for their mission. Pakistani military engineers are clearing roads faster than expected. And after warning of a severe shortage of tents, United Nations officials say they are ''cautiously optimistic'' that 500,000 tents, enough to shelter 3.2 million homeless survivors, will arrive before winter. 
 Yet dangers persist. The sprawling United Nations relief operation remains grossly underfinanced, with little that has been promised actually in hand. Hundreds of cases of acute diarrhea have emerged in small, poorly organized refugee camps that have sprouted across the quake zone. The most unpredictable element of all, an early or particularly harsh winter, could scuttle the entire effort and kill thousands. 
 In the next two weeks, the relief effort must achieve two critical goals, Pakistani officials and foreign aid workers said. It must provide adequate shelter to 200,000 people living in high altitude villages soon to be cut off by snow. And it must organize, improve and sanitize hundreds of small refugee camps that have sprung up in low-lying areas. 
 For now, many survivors say they will spend the winter in damaged villages instead of refugee camps. Zahid Shah, a bearish, leather-skinned man in Missri Mar, an Allai Valley village that sits at 6,100 feet, said he would take his chances in the mountains. ''Last year, there was 15 feet of snow, and the road was blocked for six months,'' he boasted. ''But we survived.''
 The establishment of 15 remote field hospitals has lessened one of the most harrowing legacies of the earthquake -- hundreds of adults and children in isolated villages receiving no medical care for weeks for broken spines, legs and arms, aid workers say. Yet doctors say that each week they encounter seriously injured quake survivors who have still received no medical care.
 On Monday, Red Cross workers discovered three girls, ages 10, 5 and 3, and six adults, including two men and a woman over 70, in the Jhelum Valley who had received no medical care for limbs fractured in the quake, Ms. Barry said. No major disease outbreaks have occurred, but health experts remain concerned. More than 9,000 acute respiratory infections, and 6,000 cases of diarrhea, 1,130 of dysentery, 444 of scabies and hundreds of pneumonia cases were identified, the World Health Organization said. Even if additional deaths are avoided, statistics reveal Pakistan's loss. More than 17,000 children perished in the earthquake, Unicef said, most of them crushed when the concrete roofs of shoddy schools collapsed.
 More than 1,000 amputations have been performed, the Pakistani Ministry of Health said. At least 504 people have been paralyzed. One hundred and eleven of those paralyzed were children.


GRAPHIC: Map of Pakistan highlighting Islamabad: In Islamabad, donors pledged $5.8 billion for reconstruction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (65%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (64%); TERRORISM (64%); FAMILY (64%) Earthquakes; Foreign Aid; Earthquakes

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (58%) United Nations

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (72%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%) Somini Sengupta; David Rohde; Pervez (Pres) Musharraf

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (93%) INDIA (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Pakistan; Islamabad (Pakistan)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



436 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Doctors Objecting to Planned Cut in Medicare Fees

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is headed for a clash with the nation's doctors over a federal plan to cut their Medicare fees by 4.4 percent next year, even as the government tries to measure the quality of care they provide.
 Doctors say that if the cut occurs, some physicians will be less willing to accept new Medicare patients. 
 Administration officials said that on Monday they would publish a final rule cutting 4.4 percent from the amount paid to doctors for each service provided to Medicare patients in 2006. They said the cut was required by a formula in the Medicare law. But doctors pointed out that President Bush had not proposed any specific legislation to avert the cut.
 In a report to Congress in April, Medicare's trustees said the formula would produce cuts totaling roughly 25 percent from 2006 to 2011, while doctors' costs are expected to rise 15 percent.
 Administration officials said any increase in doctors' fees would lead to steeper increases in premiums charged to beneficiaries. Moreover, they said, doctors often respond to such cuts by performing more services, so their income does not necessarily fall. Finally, the administration said, doctors should not be paid more unless they cooperate with a federal effort to measure the quality of care they provide.
 ''Medicare needs to encourage and reward efficiency and high-quality care, not simply pay for more services,'' said Dr. Mark B. McClellan, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
 Doctors said it was absurd for Medicare to cut their fees at a time when their costs were rising. The effects of such cuts will be compounded, they said, because many private insurers and some state Medicaid programs link their payment rates to the Medicare fee schedule.
 Dr. Duane M. Cady, chairman of the American Medical Association, said: ''Physicians cannot absorb the pending draconian cuts. A recent A.M.A. survey indicates that if the cuts begin on Jan. 1, more than one-third of physicians would decrease the number of new Medicare patients they accept.''
 Medicare uses a complex formula to pay doctors. The formula sets goals for spending, called ''allowed expenditures.'' The goals are updated each year to reflect economic growth and other factors. If spending repeatedly exceeds the goals, Medicare reduces the fees that would otherwise be paid in later years.
 In 2005, the Bush administration estimates, payments under the fee schedule will total $93.3 billion, far exceeding the goal of $80.4 billion.
 Lawmakers of both parties have introduced bills to prevent the cuts, but they are far from agreement. A budget bill passed by the Senate would give doctors an increase of 1 percent next year. House members are considering proposals for a freeze or a small increase.
 For months, the administration took no public position on proposals to stop the cuts scheduled for 2006 and later years. Any Medicare legislation could reignite debate over the new prescription drug benefit, and the White House told Congress it wanted to avoid that.
 At a hearing this week, Dr. McClellan, the Medicare administrator, offered to work with Congress on the problem. But he said, ''We don't have a specific legislative proposal.''
 The administration recently announced a ''voluntary reporting program'' under which doctors will report clinical data intended to gauge the quality of care provided to Medicare patients. The government will use 36 measures, like the percentage of heart attack patients who receive aspirin and certain blood pressure drugs, known as beta-blockers, when they arrive at a hospital. The administration said it would ''provide feedback to physicians on their level of performance.''
 The American Medical Association expressed ''strong objections'' to the program, saying that many of the 36 measures were invalid or inappropriate for doctors' offices. 
 Dr. Cyril M. Hetsko, a trustee of the association, said paying doctors for their performance might be a desirable goal. But he added, ''Depending on how the program is set up, it could have the unintended effect of reducing payments to doctors with black and Hispanic patients in inner-city neighborhoods, while rewarding doctors with healthy, better-motivated patients in affluent suburbs.''
 Some lawmakers are also skeptical. ''This type of pay-for-performance program will give government bureaucrats more say over what's good treatment,'' said Representative Charlie Norwood, Republican of Georgia. Representative John Shadegg, Republican of Arizona, said he feared that ''a government bureaucrat will decide what performance we pay for.'' 
 Dr. Stephen C. Albrecht, a family doctor in Olympia, Wash., said 20 percent of his patients were on Medicare. If payments are cut next year, he said, it would be ''economic nonsense'' for him to continue participating in the program.
 In the past, Congress has sometimes given doctors a reprieve for one or two years. But the chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, said he wanted a permanent, systematic change, not another short-term fix.
 ''I will not support simply pouring more taxpayer dollars year after year into a system that is broken,'' Mr. Barton said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Cutting Medicare Fees''Doctors face a cut in Medicare fees in January. Below, the annual change in Medicare payments to doctors.Graph tracks changes from 1999-2006. (2006 projected/planned)(Source by Department of Health and Human Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); QUALITY CONTROL (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INSURANCE (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); MEDICAID (58%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Doctors; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Robert Pear; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



437 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Are the Fed Fights Over?

BYLINE: By Alan S. Blinder. 
Alan S. Blinder, a professor of economics at Princeton University, was vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board from 1994 to 1996.

DATELINE: Princeton, N.J. 

 BODY:
SOMETHING rare and important happened in Washington on Tuesday. But you might have missed it if you read your newspaper too quickly. The Senate held a hearing on the nomination of Ben Bernanke to be the new chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. 
 The last time that happened was in July 1987, when Alan Greenspan was first confirmed. Before that, it was Paul Volcker in July 1979. This newspaper's own coverage offers a revealing historical progression. On the morning after Mr. Volcker's hearing, the paper ran a Page 1 article reporting on what was said. Eight years later, the article on Mr. Greenspan's confirmation hearing appeared on the first business page. And, on Wednesday, the account of Mr. Bernanke's hearing was on Page 4 of the business section -- which is why it might have escaped your attention. 
The Federal Reserve chairman is widely agreed to have more influence on the national economy than does the president of the United States. Yet the national news media -- as opposed to the specialized financial news media, which dote on the Fed -- seem to find monetary policy less engaging than they did in 1979 or 1987. Why?
 One reason is clearly Mr. Bernanke's ability and qualifications, which make him a stellar choice in the eyes of Republicans and Democrats alike. (Disclosure: Mr. Bernanke was a Princeton professor for many years and is a longtime friend and colleague.) But that cannot be the whole story, for Mr. Volcker and Mr. Greenspan were also widely acclaimed at the times of their confirmations.
 A second reason is that these are pretty placid times for the nation's central bank. The United States has not had an inflation scare for 15 years. While the Fed is now raising interest rates, it is merely bringing them up from their previous abnormally low levels to something more normal. And it is doing so at a pace it calls ''measured,'' with clear warnings at each step. No fuss, no muss, no bother -- and limited public interest.
 The situation was different when Paul Volcker went up for confirmation in July 1979. High inflation had plagued the country for years and was about to get worse. Taming it ranked high on the national agenda, maybe at the top. So the Federal Reserve's monetary policy claimed the public's and the news media's attention. 
 By the time Alan Greenspan was confirmed in 1987, inflation had been under control for several years, and the Fed's policy interest rate had barely changed over the previous 15 months. Both inflation and the Fed therefore commanded much less of the limelight. If you read the hearing transcript, you will find that as much attention was paid to the federal budget deficit and the trade deficit as to inflation and the Fed's interest rate policy. (Sound familiar?)
 Today, not too many Americans are worrying about inflation, and the economy is doing pretty well.
 But there is a third, and very important, reason that Mr. Bernanke's nomination and confirmation have received so little press attention. The happy truth is that monetary policy is not very controversial -- and is certainly not very political -- these days.
 Instead, there is a strong intellectual and political consensus that the central bank should be free of political interference, should keep inflation low and should promote high employment. Furthermore, while central banking remains part art, part science, the science has clearly been gaining on the art in recent decades. Central bankers around the world are increasingly thought of as technocrats, not as philosopher-kings or sorcerers.
 It was not always thus. In the early days of the republic, Hamilton and Jefferson battled over whether the young country should have a central bank at all. No one was thinking about ''monetary policy'' back then, but they were thinking about ''sound money.'' While Hamilton won that debate, the first Bank of the United States lasted only 20 years before falling prey to populist politics. A similar fate befell the second Bank of the United States under Andrew Jackson. These were intense political struggles.
 From 1836 until the Federal Reserve opened its doors in 1914, the United States did not have a central bank. But the vociferous debates about inflation and deflation, ''hard'' versus ''soft'' money, central versus local control of credit and the like did not cease. These brouhahas remained central to American politics -- think Eastern bankers versus Western farmers, free coinage, William Jennings Bryan's ''cross of gold'' speech, and so on. The battle over the control of money has been a leitmotif in American history. 
 In fact, an echo could even be heard Tuesday in the interchanges -- no one would call them arguments -- between Mr. Bernanke and Senator Paul Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, over whether the Fed should set a numerical inflation target. Mr. Sarbanes worried that doing so might diminish the importance of the Fed's other objective: high employment. Mr. Bernanke assured him it would not.
 But the echo was faint indeed. Mr. Sarbanes does not favor high inflation any more than Mr. Bernanke favors high unemployment or deflation. The hearing illustrated a new reality: that debates over monetary policy are now apt to be boring and technical -- and far removed from politics. 
 These are salutary developments. John Maynard Keynes once longed for the day when economists would be ''humble, competent people, on a level with dentists.'' At least as far as central bankers are concerned, we are not quite there yet. Mr. Bush's choice of Mr. Bernanke remains far more important than his choice of a dentist. But not important enough to make Page 1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (85%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); BUDGETS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); TRANSCRIPTS (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) News and News Media; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (89%) Alan S Blinder; Ben S Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2005



438 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Why the United States Should Look to Japan for Better Schools

BYLINE: By BRENT STAPLES

 BODY:
The United States will become a second-rate economic power unless it can match the educational performance of its rivals abroad and get more of its students to achieve at the highest levels in math, science and literacy. Virtually every politician, business leader and educator understands this, yet the country has no national plan for reaching the goal. To make matters worse, Americans have remained openly hostile to the idea of importing strategies from the countries that are beating the pants off us in the educational arena. 
 The No Child Left Behind Act, passed four years ago, was supposed to put this problem on the national agenda. Instead, the country has gotten bogged down in a squabble about a part of the law that requires annual testing in the early grades to ensure that the states are closing the achievement gap. The testing debate heated up last month when national math and reading scores showed dismal performance across the board. 
 Lurking behind these test scores, however, are two profoundly important and closely intertwined topics that the United States has yet to even approach: how teachers are trained and how they teach what they teach. These issues get a great deal of attention in high-performing systems abroad -- especially in Japan, which stands light years ahead of us in international comparisons. 
 Americans tend to roll their eyes when researchers raise the Japanese comparison. The most common response is that Japanese culture is ''nothing like ours.'' Nevertheless, the Japanese system has features that could be fruitfully imitated here, as the education reformers James Stigler and James Hiebert pointed out in their book ''The Teaching Gap,'' published in 1999.
 The book has spawned growing interest in the Japanese teacher-development strategy in which teachers work cooperatively and intensively to improve their methods. This process, known as ''lesson study,'' allows teachers to revise and refine lessons that are then shared with others, sometimes through video and sometimes at conventions. In addition to helping novices, this system builds a publicly accessible body of knowledge about what works in the classroom. 
 The lesson-study groups focus on refining methods that improve student understanding. In doing so, the groups go step by step, laying out successful strategies for teaching specific lessons. This reflects the Japanese view that successful teaching is the product of intensive teacher development and self-scrutiny. In America, by contrast, novice teachers are often presumed competent on Day One. They have few opportunities in their careers to watch successful colleagues in action. We also tend to believe that educational change would happen overnight -- if only we could find the right formula. This often leaves us prey to fads that put schools on the wrong track. 
 There are two other things that set this country apart from its high-performing peers abroad. One is the American sense that teaching is a skill that people come by naturally. We also have a curriculum that varies widely by region. The countries that are leaving us behind in math and science decide at the national level what students should learn and when. The schools are typically overseen by ministries of education that spend a great deal of time on what might be called educational quality control. 
 The United States, by contrast, has 50 different sets of standards for 50 different states -- and within states, the quality of education depends largely on the neighborhood where the student lives. No Child Left Behind was meant to cure this problem by penalizing states that failed to improve student performance, as measured by annual tests.
 The states have gotten around the new law by setting state standards as low as possible and making state tests easy. This strategy was exposed as fraudulent just last month, when states that had performed so well on their own exams performed dismally on the alternative and more rigorous test known as the National Assessment of Educational Progress.
 No Child Left Behind was based on the premise that embarrassing test scores and government sanctions would simply force schools to improve educational outcomes for all students. What has become clear, however, is that school systems and colleges of education have no idea how to generate changes in teaching that would allow students to learn more effectively. Indeed, state systems that have typically filled teaching positions by grabbing any warm body they could find are only just beginning to think about the issue at all.
 Faced with lagging test scores and pressure from the federal government, some school officials have embraced the dangerous but all-too-common view that millions of children are incapable of high-level learning. This would be seen as heresy in Japan. But it is fundamental to the American system, which was designed in the 19th century to provide rigorous education for only about a fifth of the students, while channeling the rest into farm and factory jobs that no longer exist. 
 The United States will need a radically different mind set to catch up with high-performing competitors. For starters we will need to focus as never before on the process through which teachers are taught to teach. We will also need to drop the arrogance and xenophobia that have blinded us to successful models developed abroad. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



439 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Dayton, 10 Years After

BYLINE: By Laura Silber. 
Laura Silber, a senior policy adviser at the Open Society Institute, is the co-author of ''Yugoslavia: Death of a Nation.''

DATELINE: Belgrade, Serbia 

 BODY:
A DECADE after the end of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the country's development remains hamstrung by the very Dayton peace agreement that rescued it from destruction and saved the lives of many of its people. 
 The time has come to revise Dayton with an eye toward Bosnia's eventual integration into Europe. Indeed, the European Union's accession process may offer the best opportunity Bosnia will ever have to build the peace Dayton could not deliver.
The Dayton accords, signed 10 years ago today, snuffed out a four-year war that had killed some 102,000 people and driven more than a million from their homes. Richard Holbrooke, the Clinton administration's chief envoy to the Balkans, led three weeks of negotiations among the warring sides at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base just outside Dayton, Ohio. The agreement that emerged was probably the best one that could have been obtained at the time, but it also had serious flaws. 
 Dayton won the grudging endorsement of rival leaders by embodying contradictions, most significantly within the constitutional structure of the new state. Bosnia was to be a unified country that was nonetheless divided into two entities -- a Muslim-Croat federation and a separate Serbian ''republic.'' In order to ensure that the Serbs, who had waged war against an independent Bosnia to begin with, would back the deal, the negotiators agreed to establish a weak central government that ultimately lacked authority over the ethnically based entities. 
 The accord created 13 overlapping constitutions (for the 10 cantons of the Muslim-Croat federation, the two entities and the central government), as well as reams of laws and regulations that have made the country a bureaucratic nightmare. Left to its own devices, this union of three mutually distrustful groups, overseen by a weak central authority, would be deadlocked. And so an international administrator, the high representative, was given the wide-ranging powers necessary to cajole and threaten Bosnia's leaders into action. While this arrangement allowed the state to function, it may also have stunted the development of a democratic political culture.
 For years after Dayton's signing, the hope was that the mere absence of war would lead to the rebirth of a shared Bosnian identity among the country's Muslims, Serbs, Croats and children of mixed parentage. But Bosnia's ethnic groups now mostly live apart, and even in towns and villages where they reside in close proximity, they lead virtually segregated lives, sometimes going so far as to send their children to separate classes within the same school building. 
 The people of Bosnia and Herzegovina identify themselves, perhaps more than ever, by their ethnicity rather than their citizenship. A recent poll indicates that most Serbs and Croats in Bosnia do not even consider Bosnia and Herzegovina to be their homeland. Only a tiny minority of the country's residents see themselves as Bosnian, as opposed to Serb, Croat or Muslim. As a consequence, the handful of politicians who envision a modern, multiethnic Bosnia enjoy scant popular support.
 Indeed, the rush to hold elections in Bosnia in September 1996, barely 10 months after Dayton was concluded, made it all but impossible for a new set of moderate political leaders to emerge. The very nationalist parties that had prosecuted the war entrenched themselves in power, where they still hold sway over a divided country. These nationalists delayed by years the efforts of international administrators to create institutions and structures that might bring the country together and heal the wounds left by the war. 
 It does not help that two of the Bosnian war's most notorious criminals -- Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader, and his leading military officer, Gen. Ratko Mladic -- remain at large. They are living, breathing reminders of the atrocities of war and the failures of peace.
 Bosnia today is a country muddling through. Like many other countries in transition, it is plagued by economic woes, corruption, unemployment, a brain drain and lawlessness, compounded by the legacy of war. The economy has improved, mainly because of postwar aid, but donors have shifted their attention to other crisis zones. American soldiers have long since left, and the remaining European-led force is just a few thousand strong. Even the European Union, which now runs the show, is preparing to wind down its engagement in a year or two. 
 But Bosnia cannot make the transition from international protectorate to independent state until it surpasses the limitations of the Dayton accords. What helped the country take life 10 years ago today hinders it from becoming a stable democracy with a thriving economy. 
 Meeting the European Union's high standards for integration will get Bosnia partway down that road. Last month the country reached a milestone in this regard when its Serbian entity approved a reform that will unify the police, thus clearing the way for Bosnia to sign a European Union stabilization and association agreement. Fulfilling the terms of that agreement will require Bosnia to achieve European standards in the movement of workers, goods and capital. Although Bosnia is a long way from candidacy for European Union accession, the country's leadership should focus on that goal by streamlining Bosnia's laws and institutions to conform with the ''acquis communautaire,'' an 80,000-page catalog of European Union regulations that accession candidates must adopt. 
 The European Union and the United States, meanwhile, should endorse the reforms the Dayton framework needs in order to solidify the state. Namely, Bosnia needs a stronger central government. The government's current weakness impedes economic progress. Every decision requires protracted negotiations among ethnic entities with conflicting aspirations. In the end, the international overseer has had to step in to break the resulting gridlock. Changing this does not mean abolishing the Serbian entity, which, like it or not, is part of Bosnia's post-Dayton reality; but it does mean negotiating a new modus vivendi in which the parts no longer have the ability to paralyze the whole.
 It is up to the Bosnians themselves to develop new arrangements that will allow the country to function as a unified state without an international administrator. To that end, the negotiations on Bosnia's new constitution should not take place in Brussels or Washington but in Sarajevo, Mostar and Banja Luka. 
 The distant lure of European integration may not be enough to create cohesion among nationalist Bosnian politicians who do not share a common vision. But there is so much to be gained along the road to European integration -- whether the journey takes 10 years or 25 -- that Bosnian politicians have every reason to wise up and take charge.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Mirko Ilic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); RELIGION (66%); ETHNICITY (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); ARMED FORCES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); EUROPE (94%); CROATIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



440 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:

TURKEY TIME -- Fears of avian flu don't seem to be denting demand for turkey this Thanksgiving, industry executives say. In fact, tight supplies and strong exports have nudged prices up about 6 cents a pound from last year. Even so, the National Chicken Council is trying to reassure consumers, proclaiming on www.avianinfluenzainfo.com that you can't get the disease from ''properly handled and cooked food.'' Europe is sending mixed signals on the issue; a poultry group plans to ask the European Union today for increased export subsidies to offset sagging sales it blames on bird-flu concerns. 


SPEAKING OF THANKSGIVING DINNER -- There are few earnings reports of note being released this week but food is a big theme in the ones that are, including results from Campbell Soup today, H. J. Heinz tomorrow and Hormel Foods on Wednesday.

HAPPY TRAVELING -- The Thanksgiving holiday is shaping up as the busiest travel season of the year, with 21.7 million passengers expected to take flight, an increase of 33 percent from last year. Separately, Deloitte says half of the respondents to a survey say they would take a long-distance trip between Thanksgiving and Jan. 5, up from 36 percent last year.

SHOPPERS, SHOW YOUR STUFF -- The latest store-sales figures will be released tomorrow, grist for analysts who are already fretting about the pace of holiday shopping. Richard Feinberg, director of the Purdue Research Institute, sees at best a modest 2 percent to 4 percent rise in retail sales over last year, though he projects a 22 percent increase in Internet sales. Last week, Target, the No. 2 discount chain, warned that sales this month would fall short of last year's gains. Up next: what happens the day after Thanksgiving.

OTHER INDICATORS -- Also out this week: the Conference Board's leading economic indicators today and jobless claims on Wednesday.

LUMBERING RESPONSE -- The United States' dispute with Canada over cheap timber imports reaches another flashpoint this week. The Bush administration has promised to respond by Wednesday to a demand by a panel of the North American Free Trade Agreement that it recalculate its 16.4 percent import duty on timber. Washington says the tariff is designed to offset government subsidies to Canadian producers; Canada wants the fees eliminated.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (92%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); POULTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); MEATS (79%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (70%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (57%); DELOITTE LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (57%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (57%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (57%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



441 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: After Eminent Domain Victory, Disputed Project Goes Nowhere

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: NEW LONDON, Conn. 

 BODY:
They have still not moved out. Not Susette Kelo. Not the Derys. Not Byron Athenian or Bill Von Winkle or the others. 
 Five months after the United States Supreme Court set off a national debate by ruling that the City of New London could seize their property through eminent domain to make way for new private development, no one has been forced to leave.
No bulldozers have arrived to level the last houses still standing, and none are expected soon.
 Even though the holdouts lost their case, and the development that would displace them finally seems free to go forward, construction has not begun, and some elements of the project have been effectively paralyzed since the court ruling prompted a political outcry. 
 ''I felt relaxed enough to get my checkbook out and put the new roof on,'' said Mr. Von Winkle, who owns three buildings with a total of 12 occupied apartments in the Fort Trumbull neighborhood by the Thames River, where the city was sued for claiming 15 properties through eminent domain.
 Ms. Kelo, also among the handful of holdouts, said, ''We still have hope that we'll get to keep our homes.''
 It is not that Ms. Kelo and the others have chained themselves to their property in a final dramatic defiance of the law.
 Instead, wary of public disapproval and challenges from groups like the Institute for Justice, the law firm that represented the holdouts in court, the state and the city have halted plans to evict the remaining residents. Investors are concerned about building on land that some people consider a symbol of property rights. At the same time, contract disputes and financial uncertainty have delayed construction even in areas that have been cleared. 
 With so many complications, some people are unsure whether the city's initial vision for the property -- a mix of housing, hotel and office space intended to transform part of its riverfront and bolster a declining tax base -- is even realistic anymore.
 ''Winning took so long,'' said Mayor Jane L. Glover, ''that the plan may not be as viable in 2005 or 2006 or 2007.''
 New London, founded in the 17th century as a port city in southeastern Connecticut, has a high unemployment rate and fewer residents today than it had in 1920. Its court battle over eminent domain started five years ago, when it claimed the property of six Fort Trumbull homeowners, a two-block area within 90 acres set for development. Homeowners challenged the move, and the matter eventually made its way to the Supreme Court, which ruled 5 to 4 in June that the city had the right to take the land to improve its financial health, even though doing so would eventually transfer the property to a private developer. 
 But in a dissent that echoed what property rights activists were saying, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote: ''The specter of condemnation hangs over all property. Nothing is to prevent the state from replacing any Motel 6 with a Ritz-Carlton, any home with a shopping mall or any farm with a factory.''
 Congress and state legislatures across the country have reacted by revisiting eminent domain laws. Over the summer, the United States House of Representatives passed a resolution condemning the court decision. This month, the House voted overwhelmingly to deny federal economic development money for two years to local governments that seize private property for private development. 
 In September, Gov. M. Jodi Rell of Connecticut demanded that the New London Development Corporation, the city's development agency, rescind eviction orders delivered to tenants in rental units that belong to homeowners who have refused to give up their property. 
 The Connecticut General Assembly has asked cities to delay using eminent domain while it considers revising state law. Some city and state officials cite the difficulty in finding a balance between using eminent domain to rebuild blighted areas and preventing the potential for abuse that concerned Justice O'Connor. 
 ''We're not writing a law to solve the New London problem,'' said State Representative Michael P. Lawlor, a Democrat who is co-chairman of the Judiciary Committee. ''We're writing a law to fix the Sandra Day O'Connor problem.''
 Amid all the debate, the Fort Trumbull project has stalled. 
 ''This lawsuit put a chill on the development of the whole 90 acres, no doubt in my mind,'' said Thomas J. Londregan, the city's director of law. ''Any developer knew that whatever they did would most likely be appealed to the courts.''
 Contentiousness led to stalemate and stumbles. At one point the city severed ties with the New London Development Corporation, only to reverse itself days later under pressure from the state. A key corporation executive was forced out.
 Pressure to go forward is considerable, even if momentum is not. The state has already invested $73 million on environmental cleanup and sewer and road improvements. Elegant street lamps, intended to illuminate a gentrified new riverfront, instead shine over empty lots where buildings have been leveled but not replaced.
 In recent weeks the city, the state and the developer, Boston-based Corcoran Jennison, have begun discussing ways to jump-start construction in empty areas. Details are not firm.
 ''We are currently working our way toward what I believe will be something fruitful,'' said Michael Joplin, president of the New London Development Corporation.
 One point of contention: Corcoran Jennison is resisting pressure from the city to build a waterfront hotel first, as was initially planned, out of concern that there is no market for one.
 Corcoran Jennison says that Pfizer, which built a major research center next to the site in the late 1990's and pushed for the Fort Trumbull development, backed away from a commitment to help pay for the hotel as the lawsuit dragged on. And the prospects for a Coast Guard museum, which under one plan could be built on the holdouts' land, are also unclear.
 Still, Ron Angelo, deputy commissioner of the state's Department of Economic and Community Development, insists that the project, at least in some form, will get under way soon. ''I think for the first time in a number of months, if not years, we have come close to beginning with the project,'' he said.
 If any construction begins soon, it will happen away from the area where the holdouts remain, said Marty Jones, president of Corcoran Jennison, which has been under contract on the project since 1999.
 ''We need to have some positive things happening so that every lender and investor I go to doesn't say, 'I want to be 100 miles away from here,' '' Ms. Jones said. ''Eminent domain in Fort Trumbull has been on the front page of every newspaper in the country, and it has not put New London in the most positive light.''
 Despite losing in court, the holdouts have gained political leverage, largely through the public relations effort led by the Institute for Justice, Mr. Joplin said.
 Scott G. Bullock, a lawyer for the Institute for Justice who argued for the resistant property owners before the Supreme Court, said, ''We might have lost the battle, but the overall war is really going in our favor.''
 ''What developer is going to want to build on land that was received through probably the most universally despised Supreme Court decision in decades?'' Mr. Bullock asked.
 Governor Rell has hired a mediator to meet with the holdouts. The goal is to see what, if any, financial terms, beyond the outdated appraised value they have been offered, might persuade them to leave.
 ''I'm on the road to search for the proverbial win-win,'' said the mediator, Robert R. Albright. ''It's an extraordinarily complex situation. It's not a two-party situation by any means. I'm not sure I can honestly give you an option set or even fully describe the obstacles.''
 The property owners have their critics in New London. They have been accused of delaying the city's resurgence, and even of taking payoffs from property rights advocates in order to keep up the fight. But at least a few, after seeing most of their neighborhood leveled, say they will consider coming to terms with Mr. Albright if the money is right. Others, however, have not ruled out new lawsuits.
 Meanwhile, some renters are moving in, not out. Michelle Cerrato arrived from Pennsylvania in September and found her two-bedroom apartment on Walbach Street through a newspaper ad. Unaware of the fuss over eminent domain, Ms. Cerrato, a 30-year-old casino hostess with three children, soon figured out why neighbors have signs in their windows that say, ''Not for Sale.''
 Confused and concerned that she would be evicted, she called her landlord, Sue Dery, one of the holdouts.
 ''She said it's not going to happen,'' Ms. Cerrato said. ''It's been going on for eight years.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The land taken by New London remains empty
 little has been done. (Photo by C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. B7)Map of Connecticut highlighting Fort Trumbull Municipal Development Area: New London has sought to redevelop an area near the Thames River. (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); EVICTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



442 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Columbus Journal; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Annual Protest Draws Ire Of Those Supporting Troops

BYLINE: By MICHELLE O'DONNELL

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ga., Nov. 20 

 BODY:
They arrived by the busload this weekend in this Southern river city, protesters from St. Louis, Chicago, San Francisco and other cities across the country, slightly bedraggled, clutching boxes of cereal, which, it turns out, is a young protester's M.R.E. 
 Though tired, they were energized at the prospect of demonstrating outside of the gates of Fort Benning, calling for the base to close its training school for Latin American officers. 
Some, including four middle schoolers from Chicago, were not yet born when massacres occurred across Central America in the 1980's, many of them carried out under the orders of people who had trained at the school. 
 Even so, the estimated 15,000 protesters were eager to keep alive the annual demonstration, which began in 1990 when a Roman Catholic priest of the Maryknoll order, the Rev. Roy Bourgeois, and a few of his friends staged a hunger strike outside the school to protest the murders in 1989 of six Jesuit priests and two workers in El Salvador, murders that involved 19 soldiers who had graduated from the academy.
 That small protest touched off demonstrations in this historic city that are now as much a staple of fall as the Alabama-Auburn game. On Sunday, according to the Muscogee County Jail, 38 demonstrators were arrested when they passed the school's fences, a crime that carries a federal penalty. 
 Residents of Columbus, a conservative city that takes great pride in its soldiers and the base, which pumps millions of dollars into the local economy, have endured the annual protest with increasingly clenched teeth, especially as its focus has broadened to other issues, including calls for an end to the Iraq war. 
 While the protest is largely peaceful, the locals say they have come to see it as a slap of disrespect to the soldiers from the base who are fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq. To many residents, there is no distinction between being antimilitary, calling for an end to the war or calling for the closing of the military school, the Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation, once called the School of the Americas. 
 ''I don't support the war, but I support my husband and the other guys over there who are doing their jobs so we can have the freedoms we do,'' said Allison Trejo, 29, whose husband, Gilbert, is serving in Iraq.
 That the soldiers fighting in Iraq and elsewhere are defending the demonstrators' right to protest was a refrain repeated over and over again by Fort Benning supporters. 
 The base has lost more than 40 soldiers since 2003. Many residents and Army families say that to pull out of Iraq now would dishonor that sacrifice. 
 In 2002, after Jack and Eve Tidwell, a prominent local couple, said they had heard a protester call a uniformed soldier a baby killer, they started a morale-boosting day of diversions for soldiers, called God Bless Fort Benning Day, held the same weekend as the protest. The event is a kind of ''anti-rally rally,'' said Peter Bowden, the president of the Columbus Convention and Visitors Bureau.
 Mrs. Tidwell said this year's fair, held Saturday, had a special emphasis on families. Families with children and packs of recruits just days from graduating from basic training roamed the exhibits, boarded Huey helicopters for rides, listened to a country music concert, enjoyed carnival rides and perused booths displaying hunting knives, machine guns and assault weapons. 
 Mrs. Tidwell said she thought about 15,000 attended. 
 A few blocks up and around a bend in the Chattahoochee River, more than 1,000 of the protesters, many from Jesuit schools, attended workshops on peace and ending poverty by not only serving but empowering the poor and oppressed. 
 They spoke not only of Central and South America, where they said they continued to collect evidence of human rights violations that they could link to the school, but also of New Orleans and Iraq, where they pointed to the abuses at the Abu Ghraib prison. 
 ''If we're going to put ourselves out there and spend billions of dollars on this war against terrorism, training people in terrorism tactics is the most ridiculous hypocrisy,'' said Elizabeth Tucci, a 19-year-old pre-med student from LaCrosse, Wis.
 Lee Rials, a spokesman for the academy, said that it did not teach torture and that no evidence had ever proven that its graduates had learned torture or other illegal tactics at the school.
 The Jesuits commemorated their own dead at a nighttime ceremony, by reading the names of 46 members of the order working for human rights who were killed around the world over the last three decades. 
 There was some mischief reported over the weekend, including loud music blasted at the demonstrators' tent Friday night. As involved as each side was in its own efforts, there seemed to be little face-to-face dialogue between the two groups. 
 Still, at midnight Saturday a group of soldiers recently graduated from basic training staying at the downtown Marriott ran into a group of college women by the lobby elevators. 
 A debate started (accompanied by a few flirtatious remarks by the soldiers), but it ended suddenly when both sides said the same thing: they just wanted to help the Iraqi people.
 The soldiers said they expected to be shipped off to Iraq soon.
 ''We'll do everything we can to get you back safe,'' said a youth minister with the women, alluding to his hope that the protests would help bring the troops home. ''That's what we do.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Eve Tidwell organized a rally and fair for soldiers to counter the protest.
 Judy Ruland of Springfield, Mass., holding a rosary yesterday in solidarity with thousands of protesters outside Fort Benning in Columbus, Ga. (Photographs by Jessica McGowan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MURDER (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); ARMIES (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); MILITARY BASES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); RELIGION (73%); HOMICIDE (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); IRAQ WAR (68%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (67%); ARRESTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, GA, USA (91%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (59%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



443 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Tapping a New Age Life on the Web, Cellphone and TV

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
In 2000, when C. J. Kettler was the president for sales and marketing at Oxygen Media, she boasted that the company was a ''point of convergence'' between cable television and the Internet. 
 Oxygen, after all, was started by Geraldine Laybourne, the former MTV executive, and had backing from TV powerhouses like ABC, which is owned by the Walt Disney Company, Oprah Winfrey and America Online, a unit of Time Warner.
But the Web and cable TV did not in fact converge into a viable business, and Oxygen scaled back its online effort. 
 Now, Ms. Kettler is trying her hand at convergence again. She is the founder and chief executive of Lime, a media company devoted to new-age lifestyle programs on subjects like organic food, hybrid cars and alternative medicine. And as with Oxygen, she has big-name backers, notably Stephen M. Case, the co-founder of AOL, who owns a majority of Lime. The company will not say how much money it has raised or how much Mr. Case invested.
 Mr. Case, who is building an investment firm, Revolution Partners, around alternative ideas about health care, new-age resorts and such, said he saw Lime as a way to tap into emerging trends, both in consumer behavior and media.
 ''Healthy living is a trend that is becoming more mainstream, and we can create a brand that unites a fragmented category'' Mr. Case said. ''Second, the ideal of building a next-generation network was intriguing to me.''
 Ms. Kettler's multimedia strategy for Lime is broader than that of Oxygen. The company started by buying Wisdom Media Group, which owns a cable TV channel and programs a channel on Sirius Satellite Radio. The cable channel reaches about 6.5 million homes, mainly through Comcast and EchoStar's Dish network.
 Lime has just started a Web site featuring a collection of blogs, podcasts of the radio shows and many video clips drawn from its TV programming. It is already sending text programming to mobile phones and will soon add video offerings.
 Despite similarities in ambition, there are big differences between Lime and Oxygen. 
 Lime has less money, and is much smaller, with 21 full-time employees. It plans to eventually expand to 60 workers. Oxygen reached 700 employees early on, and has shrunk to 250 now.
 Perhaps more important, the technology is different. ''Those days, convergence meant the Web and TV,'' Ms. Kettler said. Now, she said, ''you want to develop your content for all platforms.''
 For example, she said, Lime is not looking for 13 half-hour episodes, the traditional season for a TV series. Instead, she said, ''We are asking for 26 11- minute segments or 50 5-minute segments. We will cut these down for cellphones and maybe also use them to make two DVD's.''
 For now, all Lime's television programs and much of its radio network is filled with programs acquired from other producers. (Most of Oxygen's programming was original.)
 As Lime adds to its original programming, it will focus on shows that are simpler, less expensive and more flexible than that on traditional networks, including a lot of content contributed by its users.
 One early example is a series of short video segments by Deepak Chopra, the personal growth guru, answering questions about common life problems. These are already on Lime's Web site, and there are plans to send them over wireless phones and to bundle them into longer programs for the cable TV channel.
 Lime has similar plans to build programming around specialists in other subjects, including Rodney Yee, a yoga expert, and Danny Seo, an advocate of environmentally friendly design.
 Ms. Laybourne, who remains a close friend of Ms. Kettler's said that this multimedia approach was essential in a world that had a glut of traditional television networks. 
 ''The cable operators have said loud and clear, they don't want new channels,'' Ms. Laybourne said. ''Anyone who wants to start a new property has to figure how to expand to other platforms.''
 Oxygen, she added, is preparing to expand its Internet content once again. It recently launched ''Oh! Baby,'' a video program for parents, exclusively online. 
 Most of Lime's Web site consists of a series of blogs, run by freelance writers who identify articles of interest around the Web, adding some commentary, but little original reporting. 
 Ms. Kettler said this was not only economical, but it tapped into the skepticism audiences had about so-called authoritative voices.
 ''We have lined up people who we use as filters for what is out on the Web so people can learn a bit and interact with other like-minded people,'' she said. 
 The blogs will also incorporate video and audio programming produced by Lime, and eventually content produced by its users. (For now, as on most blogs, users can comment on any item.) 
 The company also hopes to turn the site into a social community, giving members the ability to create profile pages that contain content they contributed, in a stripped-down version of MySpace.com, the networking site.
 The site is organized around six channels -- exercise, health, environmental issues and design, personal growth, food and what it calls ''beyond.''
 The beyond channel includes discussion of supernatural phenomena and radio psychics, which Ms. Kettler prefers to call ''intuitives.''
 Ms. Kettler, long a Yoga aficionado, said she had had readings by various psychics and found they could offer insight. ''I really do believe in intuitives,'' she said. ''And, frankly, it is a category that is very popular, and it draws people into the brand.'' 
 The company's aim is to appeal to a broad range of viewers who might have a passing interest in new-age lifestyle coverage. 
 ''Lime is not for purists,'' Ms. Kettler said. ''This stuff should be fun and mainstream. You can eat a cheeseburger on your way to yoga.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Short video segments by Deepak Chopra, who answers questions about common life problems, are already available on Lime's Web site.
 C. J. Kettler is chief executive of Lime, a media company devoted to new-age lifestyle programs. The company has a multimedia strategy, with a Web site, radio shows, TV programming and text programming for cellphones. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (87%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MOBILE MEDIA (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (77%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); TRENDS (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (68%); PODCASTING (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); SATELLITE RADIO (63%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (84%); AOL INC (72%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (53%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (72%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (53%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%)

PERSON: STEVE CASE (79%); OPRAH WINFREY (56%); DEEPAK CHOPRA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



444 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: CHINESE LEADER GIVES PRESIDENT A MIXED MESSAGE

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
In a day of polite but tense encounters, President Hu Jintao of China told President Bush on Sunday that he was willing to move more quickly to ease economic differences with the United States, but he gave no ground on increasing political freedoms.
 Although American officials described the leaders as more comfortable with each other on Sunday than in any previous encounter, Mr. Hu made clear, by his words and his government's actions, that he had no intention of giving in to American pressure. Even during Mr. Bush's visit, there were reports of new moves against dissidents and other activists.
 American officials said none of the human rights cases on a list President Bush gave to Mr. Hu at their first meeting this year had been resolved by the time Mr. Bush stepped into the Great Hall of the People on Sunday morning. He had met with the Chinese leader in New York in September, when world leaders gathered for the opening of the United Nations General Assembly.
 By afternoon, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, meeting with reporters, acknowledged that China appeared to have put dissidents under house arrest or detained them in advance of the trip. She said the issue was being raised ''quite vociferously with the Chinese government.'' 
 Meeting with reporters in the evening, Mr. Bush said his talks had amounted to a ''good, frank discussion,'' but he seemed unsatisfied. He chose his words about Mr. Hu carefully and repeated that the relationship with China was ''complex,'' though later he added that it is ''good, vibrant, strong.''
 ''China is a trading partner, and we expect the trade with China to be fair,'' he said. ''We expect our people to be treated fairly here in this important country.''
 On economic issues that are of major concern to American businesses -- letting market forces set the value of the undervalued Chinese currency and protecting intellectual property from rampant piracy in China -- Mr. Bush made marginal progress. He secured a public statement from Mr. Hu that he would ''unswervingly press ahead'' to ease a $200 billion annual trade surplus that wildly outstrips anything Mr. Bush's father faced with Japan in the late 1980's.
 But Mr. Hu set no schedule for further currency moves, which are politically unpopular in China because they would make Chinese goods less competitive abroad. An American participant in the meetings said it was clear that ''no Chinese leader was going to act immediately under the pressure'' of a request from a foreign leader.
 Mr. Bush attended a service early Sunday morning at a state-sanctioned Protestant church near Tiananmen Square, saying afterward, ''My hope is that the government of China will not fear Christians who gather to worship openly.'' 
 But religious activists in Beijing complained that dozens of Christians who had wanted to worship alongside Mr. Bush had been turned away or detained by Chinese security forces. Christians in Shanghai and several other cities said the police had detained people who belong to underground churches to prevent them from staging demonstrations for greater religious freedom during Mr. Bush's visit.
 Dozens of political activists, including Bao Tong, a former senior Communist Party official who has become an outspoken critic of one-party rule, and Hu Jia, who has pressed for greater action to combat AIDS, were forbidden to leave their homes or use their telephones while Mr. Bush was in Beijing, according to people close to Mr. Bao and Mr. Hu who said they could not be identified because of possible retaliation by the Chinese government.
 Mr. Bush, as he has through much of his trip to Asia, continued to focus attention on Iraq. Meeting with reporters, he talked at length about the arguments that have consumed Washington in his absence, saying that members of the House or Senate who oppose his approach to Iraq have a right to dissent but also ''a responsibility to provide a credible alternative.''
 ''Leaving prematurely will have terrible consequences, for our own security and for the Iraqi people,'' he said, applauding Congress for voting down last week a resolution supporting immediate withdrawal. ''And that's not going to happen so long as I'm president.''
 If finding a way out of Iraq is an immediate problem for Mr. Bush, dealing with China's increasingly assertive tone on economic and military issues, and with Mr. Hu's quiet resistance to Washington's calls for political liberalization, are challenges that will last far beyond his presidency.
 After a day of talks that began with a 90-minute meeting inside the Great Hall of the People, Mr. Bush emerged with little progress to report beyond a $4 billion deal for China to buy 70 Boeing aircraft.
 Even that agreement seemed highly preliminary. One person with detailed knowledge of the negotiations said the actual contract, including the price tag for each aircraft, was still being discussed. He declined to be identified because of the commercial sensitivity of the pending contract. That strongly suggested that the deal had been announced ahead of time to provide an upbeat note for the White House during Mr. Bush's visit.
 Mr. Bush seemed tense during much of the day. When a reporter asked him about that later, he said, ''Have you ever heard of jet lag?'' 
 After ending his brief meeting with reporters, the president turned around and tried to go out a door that was locked. Turning back to reporters, he said, joking: ''I was trying to escape. It didn't work.''
 But if he lagged at times during the day, he seemed renewed after going mountain biking on Sunday afternoon. He had more company than on his usual weekend forays in Washington. He took his Trek bicycle out with the Chinese athletes training for the 2008 Olympics.
 ''It is clear that I couldn't make the Chinese cycling team,'' Mr. Bush told reporters tonight, although his hosts did let him take the lead.
 American officials had set low expectations for what Mr. Bush might accomplish beyond deepening his relationship with Mr. Hu, a man he had expected would embrace reforms more quickly than his predecessor, Jiang Zemin.
 But while administration officials emphasized that they felt that the two men had begun to develop a personal chemistry that made it easier to grapple with trade, currency and geopolitical problems, none of that comity was on public display.
 Mr. Hu, who almost never interacts with either the Chinese or the foreign news media, declined what a Bush administration official described as a request to take questions from reporters after their meeting. 
 The Foreign Ministry spokesman, Kong Quan, attributed Mr. Hu's silence to his visitor's tight schedule, though Mr. Bush managed to hold news conferences with the prime minister of Japan and the president of South Korea last week.
 On Sunday, Mr. Hu and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao detailed for Mr. Bush steps they were taking to curb the theft of movies, software and similar goods, emphasizing that they believed that those moves were necessary to develop the Chinese economy. 
 United States officials have expressed frustration that while Mr. Hu and his predecessors have made similar commitments before, progress has been maddeningly slow.
 Had Mr. Bush stepped a few hundred yards away from his meetings in the Great Hall of the People and into the shops off Tiananmen Square -- a place he avoided being photographed, American officials said, because of the still raw memories of protesters being shot there in 1989 -- he could have paid the equivalent of a few dollars for the DVD's of several current American movies and what appeared to be a working copy of the Microsoft Windows XP operating system.
 On the status of Taiwan, Mr. Hu would brook no compromise. ''We will by no means tolerate Taiwan independence,'' he told Mr. Bush, at a moment the administration has been wary of China's missile buildup along the coast opposite Taiwan. 
 The Chinese also appeared to completely rebuff efforts by the administration to win some concessions on human rights issues. None of the journalists, business leaders or political dissidents who the United States has claimed were unjustly imprisoned or persecuted by Chinese authorities were released.
 China often makes at least modest concessions on human rights ahead of a presidential visit. But Mr. Hu, who has led a concerted and sustained crackdown on intellectual and news media freedoms since he took power in 2002, has shown little inclination to make the kinds of gestures that his predecessors did.
 Asked if the Chinese were trying to send Washington a message, Ms. Rice said: ''I don't think this has anything to do with particular Chinese attitudes of this leadership. I expect that this leadership will understand, as the former leadership did, that these are issues of concern to the president, concern to Americans, and that we'll keep pressing on human rights.''
 Mr. Bush said that he and Mr. Hu had also discussed strategies for handling the potential outbreak of avian flu and the long-running talks on nuclear disarmament for North Korea.


GRAPHIC: Photos: After meeting with reporters in Beijing, Mr. Bush tried to exit through a locked door. Realizing the mistake, he made a mock grimace, and an aide pointed the way. He joked: ''I was trying to escape. It didn't work.'' (Photographs by Charles Dharapak/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); CURRENCIES (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (61%); RELIGION (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (52%); HOUSE ARREST (52%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); HU JINTAO (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



445 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15

China's President Vows To Ease Economic Conflicts
President Hu Jintao of China told President Bush that he was willing to move more quickly to ease economic differences with the United States, but he gave no ground on increasing political freedoms. A1

Clues to Guatemala's Grim Past
Authorities from the Guatemalan human rights ombudsman's office have discovered what appears to be all the files of the National Police, an agency inextricably linked to human rights abuses during the country's 36-year civil conflict. 
The documents promise a collection of new evidence for the victims. A1

Sharon Said to Quit Likud Party
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has decided to quit the ruling Likud Party, which he helped to found, and will create a new party to try to win re-election, according to Israel's army radio and public television. A1

Violence at Egypt's Polls
Attackers wielding machetes, knives and axes created mayhem at scattered polling places around Egypt, killing one man and wounding dozens of others, in what was seen as a government attempt to create chaos to prevent the Muslim Brotherhood from making further gains in the second round of three-stage parliamentary elections. A3

Dispute Over U.N. Authority
A growing dispute over the future division of authority at the United Nations has prompted showdown talk among diplomats and a warning from John R. Bolton, the American ambassador, that the United States may look elsewhere to settle international problems. A6

Iran Votes to Close Sites to U.N.
Iran's conservative Parliament approved the outline of a bill that would bar United Nations inspectors from visiting its nuclear sites if the agency refers Iran's case to the Security Council for possible punitive measures. The board of governors of the United Nations' International Atomic Energy Agency is expected to review Iran's case this week. A10

U.S. Urges Bosnia on Charter
Ten years after the United States helped broker an accord ending the war in Bosnia, the Bush administration was pressing the country's sectarian factions to seek a revised constitution and to pledge to arrest a prominent Bosnian Serb accused of war crimes. A12

Bomb Kills 15 Iraqis, 1 Marine
The Marine Corps said that 15 Iraqi civilians and a marine were killed when a roadside bomb exploded in the town of Haditha, 140 miles northwest of Baghdad. At least 11 other Iraqis were killed or found dead in various incidents, and military officials reported the deaths of two more Americans and a British soldier. A15

Italian Film Faults U.S.
Italian public television showed a scathing documentary renewing persistent charges that the United States used white phosphorus rounds, incendiary munitions that the film incorrectly called ''chemical weapons,'' against Iraqis in Falluja last year. A14

NATIONAL A16-21

Protesters and Residents Are at Odds Near Base
Protesters descended on the town of Columbus, Ga., which houses the Fort Benning military base, for an annual demonstration calling for the closing of its training school for Latin American officers. But local residents in the military town are beginning to see the yearly event as anti-military. A16

G.O.P. Quarrel Becomes Public
A once-private feud between the Bush administration and Senate Republicans -- namely John W. Warner of Virginia, John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina -- who took issue with the president's military policy in Iraq and in the war on terrorism has begun spilling into the open. A1

Morale at the Front Lines
In interviews conducted with more than 200 soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines, the sense emerged that the war in Iraq had not broken the military -- but that civilian leaders should be wary that could change. A14

Gunman Injures Six in Mall
A gunman opened fire inside a busy shopping mall in Tacoma, Wash., wounding at least six people and taking three others hostage in a music store before surrendering to police officers, the authorities said. A21

Lobbyists Debate Nominee
Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. may not be a household name outside the nation's capital, but interest groups on both sides of the battle over his Supreme Court nomination are doing everything they can to bring it up in far-flung places. A18

Analysts and lawyers say Judge Alito has compiled a brief but unmistakable record that makes him a leader in the camp of conservative theorists and judges who believe that federal courts have been too quick to limit religious activities in public life. A18

Team Purchase Creates Rift
The Yakama Nation's purchase of the Continental Basketball Association's Sun Kings team has created a deep divide among Indians on the reservation and led to the removal of three tribal officials. A1

Governor Trumpets Clean Coal
Montana's populist governor, Brian Schweitzer, believes a coal derivative could play a big role in helping Americans gain energy independence and provide a clean fuel. A16

OBITUARIES A23

Lou Myers
A satiric artist and graphic essayist whose expressive drawings, above, helped modernize cartoons in major American magazines and advertisements, he was 90. A23

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

After a Landmark Lawsuit,Unexpected Results
The holdouts in New London, Conn., who lost their eminent domain case against the city remain in their homes, five months after the Supreme Court issued its landmark ruling. The development meant to rise on their property has been stymied by the political outcry over the ruling. A1

Doubts About River Cleanup
A federal conservation official has raised serious doubts about a plan to clean up PCB's in the Hudson River. In a confidential memo, the official says that General Electric, whose factories created the contaminants, intends to leave them in the river and cover them with a cap, which could wash away. B1

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

Tony Stewart Wins Nextel Cup
With one race to go in the 2005 season, Tony Stewart, left, didn't try to win the Ford 400 on Sunday at Homestead-Miami Speedway. He went for the bigger trophy. While Jimmie Johnson's last chance challenge ended with a crash, Stewart completed a safe, relatively uneventful 15th-place finish to capture his second career points championship. Stewart, who won his first Cup in 2002, now takes his place among the elite group of multiple champions in Nascar's premier race division. D1

ARTS E1-12

Confrontation Looms for Met
At a meeting tomorrow in Rome, Italian investigators tracking looted antiquities plan to question the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art about the provenance of about 30 objects that they assert were clandestinely excavated before making their way into the museum's collection or the private trove of Shelby White, a Met trustee. E1

Public TV Overseer Questioned
Senior officials at the Corporation for Public Broadcasting have asked a large accounting firm to rewrite a confidential report provided to the corporation's board this month, that raised questions about the propriety of a number of large contracts, officials who have seen the report said. Among the contracts the auditors' report questioned, they said, was a consulting agreement worth almost $500,000 with a former president of the corporation. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-10

Wal-Mart Goes Upscale
Online, Wal-Mart has broken through its own price ceiling, selling high-priced platinum and diamond jewelry, cashmere sweaters and other goods meant to appeal more to the Tiffany crowd than to the bargain hunters who browse the company's traditional stores. C1

Google and the University
Google's plan to create searchable digital copies of entire collections of books at five leading research libraries has prompted soul searching at the universities involved, including Harvard. C1

Crucial Time for Fox Show
The future of Fox's highly successful ''American Idol'' series may rest on two developments: contract talks with its dominant star, Simon Cowell, and a decision on whether to change the nights that it appears. C1

Tough Job for Media Reporter
Howard Kurtz, the media writer for The Washington Post, found himself in the unusual position of interrogating his own boss. Mr. Kurtz posed tough questions for nearly eight minutes to Leonard Downie Jr., The Post's executive editor, on a program where Mr. Kurtz is host, CNN's ''Reliable Sources.'' The subject was the revelation last week that Bob Woodward, The Post's assistant managing editor and a best-selling author, had not disclosed the fact that a senior official in the Bush administration leaked the name of a C.I.A. agent to him more than two years ago. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Accountability begins at home; endangering Yellowstone's grizzlies; a fence on the border; Brent Staples on what America could learn from foreign schools.

Column: Paul Krugman.

Autos D10
Bridge E8
Crossword E8
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E11
Weather B9

GRAPHIC: PhotoDrawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WAR CRIMES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); ARMIES (75%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (63%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); POLICE FORCES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); GUATEMALA (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); EGYPT (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



446 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: '55 Vision of an '05 City: Times Sq. Dies but 2nd Ave. Has a Subway

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Sandra Jamison contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
TV antennas were beginning to sprout on rooftops like spindly metallic weeds, the alternate-side parking minuet was just being choreographed and air raid sirens still rumbled daily at noon in 1955 when New Yorkers paused briefly to contemplate a city ''strained almost to bursting'' after the ''tensest quarter century'' in its history.
 Titled ''Our Changing City,'' a 20-part series of articles in The New York Times painted a largely optimistic panorama of the century's second half. It envisioned a sprawling cultural center and Fordham campus on the squalid West Side, a civic plaza in Downtown Brooklyn that Robert Moses promised would rival the Piazza San Marco in Venice, a grand development over the Sunnyside railroad yards in Queens, and a Palace of Progress devoted to world trade atop a reconstructed Pennsylvania Station.
 A Second Avenue subway would replace the elevated rail line that still loomed over Third Avenue. There would be a Harlem on the upswing, a prosperous period of shipbuilding at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, racially integrated public housing projects and evidence that Coney Island was ''fast trading in its storied glitter for genuine glamour.'' 
 There were caveats, of course, to the theme that things were generally changing for the better. The critic Lewis Mumford predicted permanent gridlock. The new Coliseum in Columbus Circle threatened the existence of the storied Madison Square Garden. The proliferation of office buildings on Fifth Avenue heralded ''the Indian summer of its era'' of fashionable department stores. The deteriorating West Side was hiding ''morosely behind city soot.''
 Times Square ''never got off its knees after the Depression darkened its theaters.'' Sordid slums endured, ''awaiting their day in the light.'' New Yorkers feared water shortages, what was quaintly called delinquency and the Cold War reality that their city was a prime target for attack.
 But planners' greatest concern was that the nation's biggest city, a sprawling 319-square-mile metropolis that still counted 268 commercial farms on 1,451 acres, was simply running out of room to grow.
 ''The city finds herself, in mid-century, almost at the end of her land resources,'' wrote Meyer Berger of The Times. Cautioning that similar dire warnings had been sounded before, one article predicted nonetheless that with only 31,000 acres of unused residential space remaining, ''the end now seems not too far -- somewhere around 1975, or, at most optimistic measures, the year 2000.'' 
 New York is a very different city from the one that Times reporters dissected in 1955. The main constant has been change. The promise of Lincoln Center was fulfilled. The promising futures of Penn Station, Coney Island and the Sunnyside yards were not. Nor were the fears about Fifth Avenue. Some changes were unexpected. Times Square was reborn. Globalization lured a record number of immigrants, but also contributed to an exodus of factory jobs --belying those gloomy forecasts that the urban frontier in New York was on the verge of closing forever. 
 Today, according to city planners, only about 7,639 of the 11,533 acres defined as available vacant land -- nearly half the total is in Staten Island -- is zoned for residential use. But other variables, in 1955 and in 2005, render those raw numbers almost moot. 
 ''It was true 50 years ago and it is true today that there is not a meaningful amount of vacant land on which to build new housing,'' said Brad Lander, director of Pratt Institute's Center for Community Development, ''but there are all sorts of other ways in which to build.''
 Since 1950, according to the census, the city's population dipped and has now risen by at least 100,000. The number of homes and apartments has expanded by nearly 800,000, but so far the city hasn't reached the end of its land resources.
 ''Why hasn't the end come?'' said Eric Kober, director of housing, economic and infrastructure planning for the city's Department of City Planning. ''Land gets recycled.''
 Over the next few decades, Co-Op City was developed on the site of a failed amusement park in the Bronx, and Roosevelt Island was transformed from derelict hospital buildings to high-rise housing. In Queens, North Shore Towers, near the Nassau border, supplanted a golf course, and housing replaced a gravel quarry in Douglaston. 
 Tenements that flanked the Second and Third Avenue elevated lines in Manhattan gave way to high-rise apartments, and garment factories and printing plants in SoHo were turned into luxury lofts. 
 Two acres in Fresh Meadows, Queens, the only vestige of the last privately owned, commercial working farm in the city, once a 200-acre spread, were finally sold to a developer in 2003 for $4.3 million.
 In Long Island City, hailed in 1955 as having the greatest concentration of light industry in the nation, furniture and food are still manufactured but a third residential tower is rising on the East River.
 ''What's displacing Long Island City manufacturing is less lower wages overseas than it is real estate prices,'' Mr. Lander said. 
 The Sunnyside yards are among the large places still available for development, though, as are the West Side railyards in Manhattan. To accommodate more housing, city planners have rezoned fallow manufacturing sites and also parts of some neighborhoods in which only nonresidential development or less density were permitted.
 They are under pressure to redraw the zoning maps even more. A study this year for the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group, said the city had space for 500,000 more factory jobs than actually exist and estimated that rezoning underused factory sites could accommodate 86,200 homes and apartments.
 About 27 percent of the city's 153,734 acres are occupied by one- and two-family houses, more than any other category of land use, and slightly more than the amount of preserved open space. Manufacturing accounts for about 4 percent and vacant land for 7.5 percent. 
 A half-century ago, nearly 29 percent of New Yorkers were employed in manufacturing, more than in any other industry classification. Today, only about 8 percent are. Since 1950, the number of doctors has gone up by about three-quarters, the number of real estate agents has nearly doubled, the number of designers and social workers has more than quadrupled and the number of hospital workers has increased 13-fold.
 There are more parking attendants, security guards, auto mechanics and cabbies, about the same numbers of carpenters and shoemakers, but fewer television repairmen, dentists and sailors. The census found 28,884 elevator operators, 2,235 telegraph messengers, 624 blacksmiths and 372 private household laundresses living in the city in 1950, but none today. 
 Fifty years ago, the Brooklyn piers handled half the cargo that passed through the port of New York. Today, they account for less than 5 percent, with the bulk now in New Jersey. Some 33 million vehicles crossed the George Washington Bridge in 1955. Last year, 108 million did. 
 Homeownership increased, to just over 30 percent of all houses or apartments, up from 19 percent. The proportion of residents living in buildings with 50 or more apartments has increased substantially.
 The suburbs swelled, none as much as Suffolk County, which ballooned to about 1.5 million residents from 380,000 as rural enclaves developed into suburbs, providing an outlet for New Yorkers and allowing the city to absorb newcomers.


Married
1950 -- 62.4%
2000 -- 43.4%

Divorced
1950 -- 1.5
2000 -- 7.7

Never married
1950 -- 24.3
2000 -- 37.6

PLACE OF BIRTH

United States
1950 -- 72.7%
2000 -- 59.7%

Central America and Caribbean
1950 -- 0.9
2000 -- 13.9

Europe
1950 -- 21.3
2000 -- 7.6

Asia
1950 -- 0.6
2000 -- 8.4

EDUCATION, AGE 25+

Less than high school
1950 -- 62.7%
2000 -- 27.7%

4+ years of college
1950 -- 7.1
2000 -- 27.5

HOUSING

Owner occupied
1950 -- 19.1%
2000 -- 30.2%

Median rent*
1950 -- $261
2000 -- $646

Median owner occupied unit value*
1950 -- $73,088
2000 -- $211,900

*Adjusted to 1999 dollars

EMPLOYED, BY OCCUPATION

Accountants
1950 -- 38,932
2000 -- 69,796

Authors
1950 -- 3,641
2000 -- 16,906

Bakers
1950 -- 15,719
2000 -- 7,313

Blacksmiths
1950 -- 624
2000 -- 0

Economists
1950 -- 714
2000 -- 5,751

Elevator operators
1950 -- 28,884
2000 -- 0

Fishermen
1950 -- 1,002
2000 -- 238

Funeral directors
1950 -- 2,143
2000 -- 1,062

Lawyers/judges
1950 -- 23,384
2000 -- 54,683

Physicians
1950 -- 19,027
2000 -- 33,103

Policemen
1950 -- 24,805
2000 -- 33,281

Real estate agents
1950 -- 10,069
2000 -- 19,612

Social workers
1950 -- 9,828
2000 -- 48,621

Teachers
1950 -- 50,424
2000 -- 138,427

(Source by Census Bureau)(pg. B4)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two acres in Fresh Meadows, Queens, the only vestige of the last privately owned, commercial working farm in the city, were sold to a developer in 2003. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)Chart: ''Then and Now''Fifty years ago, The New York Times ran a series of articles on how New York City was expected to change in the future. Here are examples of actual change, based on the 1950 and 2000 censuses.POPULATION (million)1950 -- 7.92000 -- 8.0MEDIAN AGE1950 -- 34.52000 -- 34.2RACEWhite1950 -- 90.3%2000 -- 44.8%Black1950 -- 9.42000 -- 26.4Other1950 -- 0.32000 -- 28.8MARITAL STATUS, AGE 15+

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (75%); NAVIES (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); SHIPBUILDING (68%); PUBLIC HOUSING (52%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); RETAILERS (50%) 

PERSON: Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New Yor00200600

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



447 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Ali Center Reflects the Evolution of a Champion

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

 BODY:
ON a crisp autumn afternoon, 600 spectators stood in Riverfront Plaza for the dedication of the Muhammad Ali Center, an $80 million project that commemorates Ali's life inside and outside of boxing. 
 Muhammad Ali finally has his museum.
The center is the result of more than 20 years of planning, false starts and complete stops. Ali and his wife, Lonnie, wanted to celebrate his life, not with a shrine but with a facility that would serve as a center for peace and mediation. A place where global squabbles can be mediated. 
 Lonnie Ali said this was the first time she experienced anything near the exhilaration of a heavyweight triumph. ''You graduate from college, you sort of expect that,'' she said. ''But when you think of a dream that you have and to actually fulfill that dream -- it makes my skin tingle. It's real. It's amazing. 
 ''There's been so much work involved in getting this project, not only off the ground, but showing the concept and making people believe in the mission. Then to get to the point now where the building is there, the programming is there, the exhibits are there is amazing. It's a dream come true.''
 The dedication yesterday, which had Bob Costas as the host, was the final event of a three-day celebration of Ali that began Friday with a news-media tour of the facility. On Saturday, the city held a gala at the Kentucky Center that drew several celebrities, including Bill Clinton. 
 As Lonnie Ali said yesterday, the community dedication was the important tribute. 
 After nearly two hours of songs, speeches and dedications, Ali, the 63-year-old former champion, finally made his way through the plaza to roars from the crowd. Everyone wanted to see how he was holding up. 
 There have been reports, which Lonnie Ali vigorously denied, that Ali was not doing well. He looked gaunt, and he walked with difficulty. But there was that familiar sign of recognition, the smile, a glint of mischief to come. As Ali walked on stage, a group of children whose parents were not born when Ali was in his prime chanted: ''Ali! Ali!'' 
 The beauty of the day was not the speeches or the tributes or the proclamations. The beauty was the opportunity for young people and their parents to leave the dedication, after seeing a man ravaged by Parkinson's disease, then walk 500 yards to the Muhammad Ali Center to see what the all the fuss was about.
 The fifth floor of the six-story center is divided into six pavilions that reflect the core values of Ali's evolution: respect, confidence, conviction, dedication, giving and spirituality. 
 In the Spiritual pavilion, Ali, in a quote, talks about the universality of faith. The Respect pavilion deals head-on with Ali's relationships with women, specifically with his three previous wives, and his relationship with white Americans and his attitude toward his opponents.
 The Muhammad Ali Center is at least a year away from being finished; landscaping is incomplete and all of the exhibits have not yet been constructed. 
 Next month, Ali will fly to Germany to receive an award. In his condition, one might wonder why. Why does he still subject himself to the often grueling travel schedule? 
 ''People always ask: 'Isn't he tired?' 'Shouldn't he rest?' '' Lonnie Ali said. ''Muhammad says, 'I got plenty of time to rest.' '' 
 Ali, as he always has, loves meeting new people, loves meeting fans. ''He feels it is his duty to share himself with them,'' Lonnie Ali said. ''There may come a time when Muhammad cannot travel; do you stop now while you still can?''
 I was surprised to learn from Michael J. Fox (no relation to the actor), the center's director, that only one athlete -- the boxer Lennox Lewis -- has contributed to the museum. 
 ''Lennox Lewis has been very generous and supportive,'' Lonnie Ali said. ''I can't tell you why it hasn't happened. Maybe we haven't communicated the message well enough to them. Hopefully, as time goes on and the center becomes more established, they will see the necessity and the purpose of something they can feel a part of.''
 Some great athletes have statues in front of the stadiums or arenas in which they played; some may have a video display at their station in the Hall of Fame. Muhammad Ali has an entire museum dedicated to the fullness of his life. 
 Ali is called the people's champion, though he is no more a man of the people than Sonny Liston or Floyd Patterson. In fact, I would argue that Liston, with his upbringing, his criminal past and menacing nature, was an even greater man of the masses; the masses often wind up in a cycle of poverty, jail and unemployment, relegated to the corners of the society. 
 The difference with Muhammad Ali is that he evolved, and continues to evolve, even with his illness, into something more.
 Yesterday's dedication, and the center itself, reinforced what many already knew: Ali is a giant -- for all generations.


CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Sports of The Times column on Monday about the dedication of the Muhammad Ali Center in Louisville, Ky., referred incorrectly in some copies to Michael J. Fox, the president of the center. He is a veteran museum director, not the actor.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muhammad Ali was present but did not speak at the ceremony in Louisville, Ky. (Photo by David R. Lutman/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); CELEBRITIES (70%) Boxing; Sports of the Times (Times Column)

ORGANIZATION: Ali, Muhammad, Center (Louisville, Ky)

PERSON: MUHAMMAD ALI (94%) William C Rhoden

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Louisville (Ky)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2005



448 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1692 words

HEADLINE: Saving the Environment, One Quarterly Earnings Report at a Time

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
A few years ago, scientists at Cargill Inc. learned how to make rigid, transparent plastics from corn sugars. There was just one problem: they cost a lot more than the oil-based plastics they would replace.
 But that was before the price of oil shot up and companies came under pressure from consumers and investors to find economically sound ways to adopt ''green'' packaging and other environmentally friendly products and processes. This year, Wal-Mart, Wild Oats Market and many other retailers, as well as food suppliers like Del Monte and Newman's Own Organics, all embraced corn-based packaging for fresh produce.
 Sales at NatureWorks, the Cargill subsidiary that makes the plastic, grew 200 percent in the first half of this year over the period last year. ''The early adopters were more influenced by environmental concerns than costs,'' said Kathleen M. Bader, chairwoman of NatureWorks. ''But now we're competitive with petrochemicals, too.'' 
 Cargill is one of several companies profiting from the concerns -- of shareholders, communities and consumers -- about global warming, leaking landfills and other potential environmental hazards. Huge companies like General Electric and Chevron now have separate businesses to market what they are calling environment-friendly products. 
 And new companies and university projects appear each day. Cornell University's College of Engineering, for one, expects to have a commercial process for using bacteria to recoup energy from wastewater treatment within three years. 
 ''There are a lot of creative types looking for the next big thing,'' said Bob Sheppard, deputy director for corporate programs at Clean Air-Cool Planet, a nonprofit environmental education organization. ''Well, these days, environment is it.''
 It is impossible to quantify the size of the environmental industry. Many of the newer companies are privately held. And many ''green'' products -- more efficient power generators, say, or biodegradable plastics -- are parts of other industries.
 But investors are clearly funneling ever more money into green technologies. Last year, the California Public Employees Retirement System, or Calpers, said it would invest $200 million in what it called the ''burgeoning environmental technology sector.'' This year, 27 members of the Investor Network on Climate Risk promised to invest $1 billion in companies with green products. 
 ''The environmental industry is about to take off, as more investors realize that they can reap returns from cleaner technologies,'' said Dan Bakal, director of electric power programs at Ceres, a coalition of investors and environmental organizations that runs the investor network.
 Entrepreneurs say the change is palpable. Northern Biodiesel, a small company in Ontario, N.Y., recently got financing for a plant to turn cooking oils and agricultural waste into diesel fuel. ''Banks used to dismiss me as a tree-hugger when I tried to borrow for an environmentally advantaged product,'' said Bob Bechtold, the company's vice president. 
 In one sense, the current environmental boon is a replay of the 1970's, when regulations spawned a profitable industry to sell electrostatic precipitators, air scrubbers and other air cleaning devices. New federal rules limiting diesel emissions are spurring sales now, too.
 But this time, other powerful motivators are at play. The United States did not sign the Kyoto treaty regulating greenhouse gases, but companies feel pressure to reduce gas emissions to do business comfortably in countries that did sign. Moreover, ''people know that regulations will come here, too,'' said Judi Greenwald, director of innovative solutions at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change, a nonprofit research group. 
 Even without rules to force their hands, companies are responding to societal pressures to act in an environmentally aware manner. ''Investors believe it is simply not acceptable to be environmentally irresponsible,'' said Abby Joseph Cohen, chief United States investment strategist at Goldman Sachs, which just announced its own comprehensive environmental policy. 
 Others note that companies can no longer avoid the issue. ''Shareholders are pressuring everyone to disclose what they are doing in the environmental arena,'' said Michael J. Johnston, executive vice president of the Capital Group Companies, a money management firm. 
 The reasons are as much financial as moral, added Stanley G. Deutsch, a research analyst at Babson Capital Management. ''Pension accounting, legal problems, and these days, environmental problems, all can be claims on cash flow,'' he said. 
 In many cases, of course, skyrocketing prices of oil and gas have given a boost to clean technologies. Procter & Gamble is substituting vegetable oils for petroleum derivatives in Tide detergent and Head & Shoulders shampoos, and rivals like Colgate and Kimberly-Clark are exploring alternative ingredients as well. Wal-Mart is looking at ways to burn used motor oil and cooking grease as fuel.
 Even at traditional energy companies, sales of oil substitutes are booming. Eastman Gasification Services, a unit of the Eastman Chemical Company, helps companies turn coal into a cleaner-burning fuel or raw material. David Denton, director of business development, says that sales are accelerating and that Eastman is now exploring ways to make chemicals from petroleum residues, the substances left when sulfur is removed from oil.
 Air Products and Chemicals Inc., based in Allentown, Pa., has been selling refinery hydrogen, which is used to remove sulfur from oil, for more than a decade. But now Air Products is building six plants, ''as many as we've built at one time in our history,'' said Scott A. Sherman, the company's vice president for energy and process industries.
 Mark R. Gulley, an independent analyst who follows industrial-gas companies, is not surprised. ''High fuel prices have made refinery hydrogen a hot growth driver,'' he said.
 G.E., too, acknowledges that many products included in its much-promoted ''ecomagination'' program were developed to enhance energy efficiency. The products are either inherently green (like wind power), 10 percent greener than earlier products (more efficient jet engines) or meet government standards for energy efficiency (new power generators). 
 The current stable of 17 ecomagination products represented $10 billion in sales in 2004. Lorraine Bolsinger, vice president for ecomagination, predicts that by 2010, G.E. will be selling $20 billion of ecomagination-tagged products each year. 
 ''We wouldn't sell anything under the banner of ecomagination if it wasn't green, but there must be an economic component, too,'' she said. 
 Still, the appetite for green energy is growing independently of high oil prices. Many new technologies ''are tied less to the cost of energy than to the notion of making the world cleaner,'' said John T. Preston, a senior lecturer on entrepreneurship at the the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T.
 In fact, much of the research into oil-free products predates the oil price spike. Since 2000, DuPont has been slowly replacing petrochemicals with ingredients like corn. Today, about 83 percent of its products use petrochemicals; it expects to drive that below 75 percent by 2010. ''We are looking at our entire portfolio to see where we can make substitutions,'' said Thomas M. Connelly Jr., chief science and technology officer. 
 Similarly, in 2000, Chevron started Chevron Energy Solutions to promote energy conservation products. ''We don't see a correlation between the price of crude and our customers' interest in running green facilities,'' said James C. Davis, the unit's president. For example, Mr. Davis said that he counted as clients many universities whose electric bills had not increased, but who wanted to promote their ''green campus'' to prospective students, faculty members and donors. 
 The flip side -- avoiding negative publicity -- is an equally powerful motivator. CSI Leasing, which leases personal computers, was worried that discarded equipment would end up leaching chemicals into landfills. So last year, Executive Personal Computers, a CSI subsidiary that sells used computers, added a sideline business: collecting used computers from CSI and others, then stripping them into steel, plastic and other components to sell as scrap. 
 That business will account for about 8 percent of the subsidiary's $20 million in sales this year. Daniel E. Fuller, its president, predicts that it will provide half of sales in a few years. ''No company wants a computer with its serial number showing up in an illegal dump,'' he said.
 Still, the biggest boost to green technologies is the good will bonus that environmental responsibility can confer. Wal-Mart, under fire for some labor practices and facing resistance to proposed new stores, is rolling out a program, already at 584 stores, to recycle shrink wraps, shopping bags and other plastic items that once went to landfills. 
 Wal-Mart also has experimental stores in McKinney, Tex., and Aurora, Colo., where it is testing the use of trees and grasses, particularly in parking lots, to absorb carbon dioxide emissions and tainted water; wind and solar energy to generate electricity; use of recycled materials for outdoor pavements; formaldehyde-free store flooring; and ways to recycle construction debris. 
 The Wal-Mart connection is already putting struggling suppliers on the map. Rocky Mountain Recycling showed Wal-Mart how to use its compactors to sandwich used plastic between layers of cardboard, making it easier to transport. Rocky Mountain carts the bales away, separates the paper and plastic, and sells them separately.
 Rocky Mountain now has 140 employees and 26 trucks; before Wal-Mart signed on last year, it had 90 workers and 7 trucks. Rocky Mountain has applied for a patent on the baling process, and plans to license it either to Wal-Mart itself, or to other waste haulers. ''In the next three to five years,'' said Jeffery A. Ashby, sales and marketing manager for Rocky Mountain, ''we're going to be a $100 million company.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Plastic pellets derived from corn at NatureWorks. Some producers have adopted corn-based packaging, as the cost of oil-based products rose. (Photo by Dave Weaver for The New York Times)
Wal-Mart uses a wind turbine, above, to help provide electricity at a store in Aurora, Colo., as an experiment. (Photo by Patrick Kelley/Aurora Daily Sun & Sentinel, via Associated Press)(pg. C3)
 (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE PLASTICS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (89%); BIOFUELS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); PETROCHEMICALS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (77%); DIESEL FUEL (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); GREEN MARKET (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); OILS & FATS (72%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); LANDFILLS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (60%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CARGILL INC (93%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (81%); NEWMAN'S OWN INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS311119 OTHER ANIMAL FOOD MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC5153 GRAIN & FIELD BEANS (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (93%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (93%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (81%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005



449 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Reporter's Notebook; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: A Texan Gets a Friendly Reception on the Steppes

BYLINE: By DAVID SANGER

DATELINE: ULAN BATOR, Mongolia, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
If you are an American president in need of just a few hours of temporary political asylum -- no debate about Iraq, no Chinese leaders resisting the American agenda and plenty of adulation -- here is an approach: Come to the endless steppes that Ghengis Khan made famous.
 When Air Force One descended low over the barren but breathtaking landscape here, few Mongolians had ever seen anything like it. None of the previous American presidents had made the journey while in office.
 And so Mongolians came into this tattered post-Soviet capital, past what will soon be a monument celebrating the spectacular victories eight centuries ago, when the Mongol empire stretched from the Yellow Sea to Baghdad, to hear George W. Bush tell them that today, ''Mongolia and the United States are standing together as brothers in the cause of freedom.'' If it was gratifying for Mongolians to hear that message from the leader of a country that billboards here proclaimed a ''third neighbor'' -- not Russia and not China -- their reaction was probably even more gratifying for President Bush. 
 At home, there may be questions about the war in Iraq, but there are not many here. Mongolia recently sent its fifth rotation of troops to Iraq -- it sends roughly 160 at a time.
 In truth, there were four protesters as Mr. Bush bumped past the belching industrial complexes outside Ulan Bator. Two held a sign urging him to get out of Iraq. Two wanted him to sign the Kyoto Protocol on climate change. (For the record, Mongolia signed.)
 Anti-Americanism? ''I haven't heard any,'' said Brett Burkhart, a Peace Corps volunteer from California who has been living in a ger -- a traditional Mongolian domed tent -- in a rural village. ''Well, I did hear it once, but I think the guy was drunk.''
 There is something else that seemed to thrill Mr. Bush about Mongolia: presidential entertainment is vivid. 
 As his limousine raced across the steppe, a team of Mongolian warriors -- carrying spears and shields and wearing the body armor that Ghengis Khan used to subdue territory that Mr. Bush is still grappling with 800 years later -- suddenly appeared and galloped alongside. 
 Gone from Mr. Bush's face was the let's-get-on-with-it look he had at Gigkakuji, the famed temple he visited in Kyoto, Japan. He talked with the warriors and stepped around camels and yaks to make his way into a quite luxurious ger. Sitting by a wood-burning stove, he chatted with a family of herders. (The Mongolian government says the herders were the real thing, but they live 100 miles out of town, and were brought in to lend some authenticity to the small village erected for Mr. Bush's benefit.) The president sipped a bit of fermented mare's milk, nibbled on some cheese curd and listened to some throat singing. 
 The man who once power-walked through Red Square in less than 10 minutes actually lingered. Then, reluctantly, four and a half hours after he landed, Mr. Bush boarded his plane and lifted off -- taking him back to the questions at home about how his presidency can regain its footing amid new debates on the Iraq war. 

Iraq, Every Day, Everywhere
 If Mongolia won its way into Mr. Bush's heart with its unflagging support for the war in Iraq, its attitude was the exception on his four-day trip. The war is deeply unpopular in Japan, his first stop, and his motorcade did not exactly attract huge crowds.
 Things were worse in South Korea, where the defense minister announced, as a fact, that South Korea planned to trim its more than 3,000 troops in Iraq by a third next year. Mr. Bush's aides scrambled to win a retraction. The president's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, called the South Korean foreign minister and was reassured, he said, of the country's ''commitment to the mission.'' 
 The number of South Korean troops, Mr. Hadley told reporters, ''will depend on the political evolution and the security evolution.'' 
 Apparently, that evolution happened quickly; on Monday, 48 hours after Mr. Bush left South Korean soil, the country's cabinet approved the reduction of forces next year.
 Then came the Chinese, with their highly attuned sense of political leverage.
 It is impossible to say exactly what led President Hu Jintao to conclude that he would not pay a high price for making vague commitments on revaluing China's currency and for offering no commitments on improving human rights or increasing the pace of democratization. 
 Administration officials were clearly surprised that not only did China fail to release any dissidents on a list of human rights cases turned over to Mr. Hu in September, but it also detained more dissidents just before Mr. Bush's arrival.
 Administration officials also seemed vexed that Mr. Bush's statements in China were largely unheard by most of the nation. So perhaps it was no surprise that aides traveling with Mr. Bush were striving to note some accomplishments. Talks with China are about long-term problems, they said, adding that Mr. Hadley had warned before the trip that the president was not seeking immediate ''deliverables,'' apparently referring to specific diplomatic and economic achievements. 
 And Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said that China's willingness to listen to talk about human rights issues was significant. ''I can remember times in the past where, both here and in a number of other countries, you were just told to mind your own business,'' she said when she met with reporters in Beijing on Sunday. ''Well, that's not the case now.'' 

For Bush, No Horse of Any Color
 President Bush may love Texas, and his ranch, as he reminded Mongolians when he compared their land to his beloved state. But his enthusiasm does not extend to another Mongolian passion -- horses.
 When Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld was here a month ago, the Mongolians presented him with their highest honor: a beautiful gelding that he named Montana. So in a delicate act of diplomacy, the White House secured an agreement that President Enkhbayar Nambar would not give Mr. Bush a horse. But since the secretary of defense had to look his gift in the mouth -- leaving it here, at least temporarily, because it was a bit difficult to transport on his official plane -- Mr. Bush found another way to saddle up.
 ''I'm here on an important international mission,'' Mr. Bush said at the opening of his speech in Government House. ''Secretary Rumsfeld asked me to check on his horse.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and Laura Bush, posing yesterday with cultural performers in Ulan Bator, Mongolia's capital. In a speech, Mr. Bush compared Mongolia to Texas. (Photo by Jason Reed/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); VOLUNTEERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (56%); KINKI, JAPAN (54%) MONGOLIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005



450 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1621 words

HEADLINE: G.M. SET TO DROP 5,000 MORE JOBS AND SHUT PLANTS

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
General Motors, the world's largest auto company, announced details on Monday of a three-year blueprint to revive its fortunes, including 5,000 job cuts on top of 25,000 previously announced. Analysts immediately questioned whether the plan was enough, saying it lacked the speed and breadth that had helped rivals make comebacks. 
 Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, said the jobs cuts along with plant closings were ''necessary for G.M. to get its costs in line with our major global competitors.''
Mr. Wagoner said he was confident the restructuring would help reverse more than $2 billion in losses this year at G.M., a company that once dominated the industry but whose prospects have turned bleak. 
 G.M. is not alone: Ford, poised a few years ago to catch G.M. in American sales, said last week that it would reduce the number of salaried jobs as it prepared its second revamping in four years.
 The job cuts at G.M. and the closing of all or parts of a dozen installations in the next three years will still leave the company with the capacity to build more cars and trucks than it is selling in the competitive American market. Analysts say that such inefficiency, along with hesitant leadership, lackluster car designs, management missteps and costly health care and pension plans, are creating disadvantages in the competition with Toyota and some other foreign automakers.
 Among G.M. workers, the restructuring plan was met with a mix of surprise and resignation. [Page C1.]
 All told, Detroit companies and their suppliers have announced plans to eliminate 98,000 jobs, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas, the outplacement company. The total could easily pass 100,000 this year -- the largest cuts since Ford started an earlier restructuring plan in 2002. Though jobs will be eliminated across the country, there will be special pain in Michigan, which had unemployment of 6.4 percent. The national rate was 5.1 percent.
 All this comes as foreign rivals are luring customers with better car designs and increasing their market share. The biggest foreign rival, Toyota, is building two more plants in the United States and Canada, and is pondering where to put another North American factory.
 If anything, G.M.'s corporate revamping plan drew a collective yawn from Wall Street, where its shares declined modestly, after an initial lift. The company had already tipped its hand that the cuts were coming.
 In the meantime, over the last few years two rival car executives -- Carlos Ghosn at Nissan and Dieter Zetsche at Chrysler -- have rolled out popular new models, made steep spending cuts and in the process become auto industry stars. Both have gained power: Mr. Ghosn is now running both Nissan and its French partner, Renault. Mr. Zetsche is about to become the chief executive of the parent, DaimlerChrysler.
 But G.M.'s chief, Mr. Wagoner was economical with details on Monday. He would not say when G.M. expected to make money again, and he would not say how much in savings the revamping would yield. G.M. expects to take a significant charge reflecting the plan's costs. Last week, Mr. Wagoner sent an e-mail message to G.M.'s 325,000 employees to dispel rumors that it would soon seek bankruptcy protection. 
 All told, Monday's cutbacks, plus earlier reductions in health care benefits, would reduce costs $7 billion by the end of 2006, $1 billion more than the previous target. That is about one-sixth of G.M.'s annual spending of $42 billion. 
 ''The decisions we are announcing today were very difficult to reach,'' Mr. Wagoner told employees in a telecast, ''because of their impact on our employees and the communities where we live and work.''
 But John Casesa, an auto analyst with Merrill Lynch, was unimpressed, saying the plan was vague with little that investors did not already know, except for the locations of the plants G.M. would close and a modestly bigger estimate of savings.
 The program ''is only the beginning of a long restructuring process,'' he wrote in a research report. 
 G.M. is long acquainted with the process of corporate restructuring, particularly in working with union contracts that have prevented it from making unilateral cutbacks. In 1992, Mr. Wagoner, then a rising young executive, helped the company carry out a more comprehensive plan that called for 75,000 job cuts and the closing of 21 factories. Coupled with the popularity of new sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks, G.M. was on track to strong profits the rest of the 1990's.
 G.M. has more new pickups and S.U.V.'s in the works early next year, as the linchpin of its latest comeback effort. But those vehicles have lost popularity, in the face of steeply higher gasoline prices this fall. 
 And Mr. Wagoner, 52, has lost the buzz that surrounded his appointment five years ago as a chief executive focused on new technology as a way to make money. On Monday, he was asked whether he planned to step aside, a possibility raised in recent weeks, as concerns about a possible G.M. bankruptcy filing worried investors.
 Mr. Wagoner said he did not plan to do so -- although he acknowledged that he was frustrated with the gloom surrounding the company. Still, ''it goes with the turf,'' he said.
 John Paul MacDuffie, an associate professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, said the training that Mr. Wagoner received might have made him the perfect chief executive in an era when G.M.'s market power intimidated competitors.
 But Mr. Wagoner's company is now competing with prosperous automakers like Toyota and Honda that have clear identities, a commitment to environmentally friendly products and customers who do not need to be enticed with incentives.
 G.M., by contrast, has been hustling to catch up, finally embracing hybrid-electric vehicles that its executives once derided, promoting the fuel economy and safety of coming S.U.V. models rather than their heft, and promising that its next vehicles will be the best yet -- even as it rolls out bigger discounts to help move those that are not selling.
 Ford, although not seen as being in as dire a situation, is in a similar market position -- and foreign makers are benefiting as a result, Professor MacDuffie said. 
 The foreign rivals' new plants, along with lineups of vehicles attuned to American tastes, have broken Detroit's hold on buyers. ''There has been a certain core group of people who were always willing to buy American products,'' Professor MacDuffie said. ''They are now taking a look around at foreign competition.'' 
 And G.M. has made matters worse by repeatedly resorting to the incentive programs whenever sales flagged, like the ''employee discounts'' it made available to customers this summer.
 The strategy worked, leading to some of the industry's strongest sales ever. But last month, G.M. and Ford sales crashed once the incentives were eliminated.
 The employee discounts were ''the finance guy's idea of the strategy,'' Professor MacDuffie said of Mr. Wagoner. 
 G.M. said it would shut assembly plants in Oklahoma City; Lansing, Mich.; Doraville, Ga.; as well as Oshawa, Ontario. It will eliminate the third shift at a plant in Moraine, Ohio, and at another car plant in Oshawa. Seven parts factories and distribution centers will be closed in Pennsylvania, Michigan, Oregon and Ontario.
 The cuts were particularly bad for a group of plants that were considered among the company's best. Among these are the Saturn plant in Spring Hill, Tenn., known for its labor-management cooperation, where an assembly line will shut down. Often, the elimination of an assembly line puts a factory's survival in doubt, but G.M. executives took pains on Monday to say they had no plans to close the Saturn plant. The plants in Oklahoma City and Oshawa, Ontario, were ranked among the best in quality surveys, and their presence on G.M.'s list proved that neither quality nor cooperation could ensure auto workers their jobs. 
 Mr. Wagoner, speaking at a news briefing after addressing G.M. employees at company headquarters here, said he regretted that such standout plants were being shut.
 They and the others in the announcement, he indicated, could not survive the company's declining financial condition.
 G.M., which in 1960 sold more than half the cars and trucks in the United States, held less than a quarter of the American car market last month. For the year, it holds 26.2 percent of the American market, according to Autodata, an industry statistics firm in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. 
 Once G.M. completes the plant closings, which will begin next year and be finished by 2008, it will be able to build about 4.8 million cars and trucks in North America, down 20 percent from 2002.
 G.M. said it expected the job cuts to take place through attrition including retirements and buyout packages that it is negotiating with the United Automobile Workers. 
 Under terms of its labor agreements, the G.M. plants technically will not be closed until the two sides can reach a deal in the next set of national contract talks.
 U.A.W. leaders denounced the move as ''disappointing, unfair and unfortunate.'' 
 ''We have said consistently that General Motors cannot shrink itself to prosperity,'' the U.A.W.'s president, Ron Gettelfinger, and vice president, Richard Shoemaker, said. ''In fact, shrinking General Motors only exacerbates its problems.''
 But analysts said the cuts would not be enough if the company did not introduce appealing cars and trucks.
 ''The primary question,'' said Brett D. Hoselton of KeyBanc Capital Markets, ''is are you going to be able to produce cars and trucks that are compelling enough to sustain or even gain market share.''


(Source by G.M.)(pg. A1)

GRAPHIC: Photos: G.M.'s metal-fabrication plant in Lansing, Mich., is among those the company has decided to shut down. (Photo by Tony Ding for The New York Times)(pg. C4)
Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of G.M., waiting to take the stage yesterday in Detroit to announce further cutbacks at the company. (Photo by Bill Pugliano/Getty Images)(pg. A1) Chart/Map: ''Closing Plants and Losing Employees''Struggling to restore profitability as its sales are slowing and its costs remain high, General Motors announced plans to cut 30,000 jobs in North America in hopes of operating its remaining plants more efficiently.ONTARIO 2006: One plant will reduce jobs. 2008: A components plant and an assembly to close.MICHIGAN FROM 2006 TO 2008: An assembly plant, a metal stamping center, a parts-processing center and an engine plant to close. The competitiveness of some other plantsOREGON 2006: A parts-distribution center to close.MISSOURI 2006: A parts-distribution center converted.OKLAHOMA 2006: An assembly plant to close.PENNSYLVANIA 2007: A metal stamping center to close.OHIO 2006: One shift to be eliminated at a plant.TENNESSEE 2006: An assembly plant to close.GEORGIA 2008: An assembly plant to close.Map of the United States highlighting the cities listed abovce.Graphs on General Motors tracking the following since 2000:Employment cost U.S. hourly workersU.S. Light-vehicle Market shareNorth American Operating incomeNorth American Capacity useShare price, Daily closes(Sources by General Motors
Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)GraphAfter the next round of job cuts, General Motors expects to have fewer than 143,000 employees in North America
 figures in thousands.Graph tracks number of General Motors employees since 2000 projected to 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); MARKET SHARE (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (89%); CARLOS GHOSN (56%); DIETER ZETSCHE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005



451 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1580 words

HEADLINE: Louisiana Sees Faded Urgency In Relief Effort

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Nov. 18 

 BODY:
Less than three months after Hurricane Katrina ravaged New Orleans, relief legislation remains dormant in Washington and despair is growing among officials here who fear that Congress and the Bush administration are losing interest in their plight. 
 As evidence, the state and local officials cite an array of stalled bills and policy changes they say are crucial to rebuilding the city and persuading some of its hundreds of thousands of evacuated residents to return, including measures to finance long-term hurricane protection, revive small businesses and compensate the uninsured.
''There is a real concern that we will lose the nation's attention the longer this takes,'' said Representative Bobby Jindal, a Republican from Metairie, just west of New Orleans. ''People are making decisions now about whether to come back. And every day that passes, it will be a little harder to get things done.''
 Officials from both parties say the bottlenecks have occurred in large part because of a leadership vacuum in Washington, where President Bush and Congress have been preoccupied for weeks with Iraq, deficit reduction, the C.I.A. leak investigation and the Supreme Court. 
 Congressional leaders have been scrambling to rein in spending, and many in Washington have grumbled that Louisiana's leaders have asked for too much, while failing to guarantee that the money will be spent efficiently and honestly.
 By contrast, many say, Washington's response to the Sept. 11 attacks seemed more focused and sustained.
 Now, with the holiday season days away and the 2006 midterm elections just around the bend, many Louisiana officials say they fear the sense of urgency that spurred action in September is swiftly draining away. 
 Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco, a Democrat, said recently on CNN, ''We feel like we are citizens of the United States who are nearly forgotten.''
 Walter Isaacson, vice chairman of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, drew a parallel between the governmental dithering in the immediate aftermath of the flood and the current situation, saying a lack of action now would be devastating to New Orleans's economy. 
 ''It's like when FEMA wasn't really that creative, and the water was rising and people were stranded,'' Mr. Isaacson said, referring to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. ''Once again, people are being stranded and businesses are starting to die.''
 But Donald Powell, who began work this week as President Bush's liaison for the reconstruction effort, said that while the sense of urgency might have faded somewhat, ''The president is committed to rebuilding the Gulf Coast.'' 
 Few people in Congress are openly threatening to block money for reconstruction. More typical are sotto voce mumblings about whether federal money will be squandered through incompetence or graft by Louisiana officials. And some lawmakers have openly wondered whether each neighborhood in New Orleans needs to be rebuilt and protected with expensive floodwalls.
 Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, raised concerns about Congressional commitment to New Orleans when he said during a tour of the city that Alaskan towns damaged by storms were often relocated. Mr. Stevens also warned that the spate of recent natural disasters meant that Louisiana might not receive money as swiftly as it would like.
 He said later that his words had been misunderstood, and colleagues said he had spoken movingly to Republican Senators about the devastation he had witnessed. Still, such comments prompted The Times-Picayune of New Orleans to publish an editorial on Nov. 13 titled ''Forgotten Already.'' 
 ''There was an emergency window of opportunity in September that is basically closed,'' said Ron Faucheux, a vice president of the American Institute of Architects, who is lobbying for reconstruction measures in Washington. ''What's needed is to pry open that window again.'' 
 Louisiana officials credit Mr. Bush with pushing bills through Congress after the hurricane that provided $62 billion for storm recovery, much of which has not been spent. And they applauded his appointment of Mr. Powell, a former banker and chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
 [On Saturday, Governor Blanco also announced that the Bush administration had agreed to continue paying 100 percent for certain storm relief services, including debris removal, until Jan. 15.]
 But in recent weeks, Louisiana officials say, the administration has been less forceful on recovery measures. ''We're still relying on the president's promise to help New Orleans rebuild,'' said Mr. Isaacson, referring to Mr. Bush's Sept. 15 pledge that the federal government ''will stay as long as it takes to help citizens rebuild their communities and their lives.''
 Mr. Isaacson added, ''I think we need a push from the president himself'' to get federal financing for major projects.
 In some cases the administration is even blocking action sought by Louisiana officials, those officials assert. The most significant of those measures, lawmakers from both parties say, is a bipartisan Senate bill that would authorize $450 million in bridge loans and grants to hurricane-damaged businesses. 
 The bill, whose sponsors include Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, would also allow businesses to defer payments on federal loans and would increase the size of disaster loans.
 Though a similar package of benefits was approved after the Sept. 11 attacks, the Small Business Administration has opposed the new Senate bill as too costly. Mr. Isaacson said the bill would not pass without White House intervention. ''The winds have shifted against us,'' he said.
 Ms. Snowe, chairwoman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, has also chastised the S.B.A. for the slow processing of 250,000 disaster loan applications, which has created a four-month backlog. The agency said it was trying to hire 1,000 new processors, but Ms. Snowe called its response ''sluggish'' and ''confused.''
 ''They'll tell you it is an unprecedented disaster, but they won't muster an unprecedented response,'' she said. ''We should have moved heaven and earth to get this done.''
 Louisiana officials have also complained about opposition from the Bush administration to proposals to dedicate a stream of money for restoring coastal wetlands and constructing levees capable of withstanding Category 5 hurricanes. 
 Though that work will take years to complete, a federal commitment to provide money -- more than $20 billion -- is needed soon to encourage insurance companies, businesses and homeowners to invest in the region, state officials say.
 But the Bush administration has objected to a bipartisan proposal that would give the state up to 40 percent of the more than $5 billion in annual federal revenues generated by Louisiana's offshore oil and gas industries. The state now receives only a small portion of those royalties.
 ''The political will is there in Congress to do this,'' said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana and a strong advocate of the oil revenue plan. ''We have to get leadership from the White House. Their tight-fisted policies are cutting off their nose to spite their face.''
 Mr. Powell said that the administration was committed to flood protection and that a compromise on the royalties issue was possible. ''It's very important that people feel like the region is safe when they move back,'' he said.
 Many Louisiana officials acknowledge that some problems in Washington stem from the widespread perception that state and local governments here are rife with inefficiency and corruption. 
 Governor Blanco has tried to counter that image by pushing measures in the Legislature that would allow the state to take over failing schools in New Orleans, oversee levee construction now handled by patronage-filled levee boards, and cut state spending by nearly $600 million. 
 The state has hired the large accounting firm Deloitte & Touche to oversee the spending of federal relief money, and has promised to crack down on any cases of corruption. Another accounting group, UHY, was hired to monitor Deloitte. 
 Louisiana officials also acknowledge that some problems have been self-inflicted, starting with a $250 billion relief package introduced by Senator Landrieu and Senator David Vitter, a Republican, in September. The package was ridiculed by many in Congress as unrealistically expensive.
 Representative Jindal said House Republicans had taken a more ''rifle-shot'' approach of trying to pass bills addressing specific issues. 
 For example, Representative Richard H. Baker, a Republican from Baton Rouge, has introduced legislation to create a corporation authorized to issue bonds to buy destroyed properties. The corporation would sell the properties to developers. Former owners would then have the first right to buy refurbished properties. Governor Blanco and Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans have endorsed the bill. 
 But many people in Louisiana remain concerned that there are too many voices in Washington pushing different proposals, while fundamental issues remain unresolved.
 ''People want government to speak with one voice,'' said Keith Villere, a town planner from St. Tammany Parish, just north of New Orleans. ''If they don't unite, the federal government will forget about St. Tammany. They'll forget about New Orleans. And they'll forget about Katrina, just like they forgot about the tsunami.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco is trying to counter the image of Louisiana as rife with corruption. (Photo by Stephen Savoia/Associated Press)(pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); TERRORISM (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); KATHLEEN BLANCO (58%); BOBBY JINDAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005



452 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Critic's Choice: New DVD's; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1033 words

BYLINE: By Dave Kehr

 BODY:

King Kong
 A fairy tale as powerful as anything concocted by Charles Perrault or recorded by the Brothers Grimm, ''King Kong'' had its premiere on March 2, 1933, and has remained a part of Western culture ever since. (And Eastern, too, come to think of it: King Kong met Godzilla in a 1962 film produced by Toho Studios in Japan.) Long one of the most requested films on DVD, the Merian C. Cooper-Ernest B. Schoedsack film makes its debut on little silver discs today in an entirely worthy edition from Warner Home Video, available both as a stand-alone ($26.99) and as part of a box set ($39.92) that includes its only official sequel, ''Son of Kong'' (1933), and its quasi-remake of 1949, ''Mighty Joe Young.''
Never has the repressed returned as mightily as it did in ''Kong,'' a film that remains a riot of phallic symbolism in which the Empire State Building is only a supporting player. But the psychosexual undercurrents are only one of many elements that contribute to ''Kong's'' enduring appeal. 
 For audiences of the early 1930's, for example, the film was not only a Freudian extravaganza but also a topical reflection of social and economic reality.
 The heroine, Fay Wray's plucky Ann Darrow, is rescued from the unemployment line by the undaunted capitalist Carl Denham, a director of nature documentaries played with entrepreneurial swagger by Robert Armstrong. Whisked away from the dark and desolate urban jungle of Manhattan to an uncharted island in the East Indies, Ann (her last name a possible reference to Clarence Darrow, the primate's advocate in the Scopes ''monkey trial'') finds a land of overabundance where dinosaurs still roam -- a rich, fecund landscape that could not be further removed from the dust bowl of Depression America. 
 ''Kong'' was one of many films of the early Depression that offered a return to nature as a fantasy solution to the nation's ills. (MGM alone issued ''Trader Horn,'' ''Red Dust'' and ''Kong's'' parallel myth, ''Tarzan the Ape Man.'') But this is a nature that is anything but paradise. Kong, its embodiment, is both innocent and deadly -- and even more so in the uncensored version used for the excellent new transfer, in which he chews up humans with grinning relish. As animated by the great Willis O'Brien, he is part impulsive child, part sexually curious adolescent (as in the once-censored sequence in which he delicately picks off Ann's clothes) and part destructive delinquent. 
 Despite Denham's famous curtain line -- '' 'Twas beauty killed the beast!'' -- it is actually industrial technology that does the job, in the form of the buzzing biplanes that attack the now toylike Kong as he climbs to the top of the Empire State Building. As one of the several excellent documentaries that accompany the feature points out, the directors Cooper and Schoedsack cast themselves as the pilots who deliver the fatal machine-gun fire. ''King Kong'' ends on a note more of pathos than terror, capturing nature's last gasp before man became the undisputed ruler of the earth. Not rated. 

Grass and Chang
 By most accounts, the driving creative force behind ''King Kong'' was Cooper, a dashing aviator and explorer who, like his satirical self-portrait Carl Denham, made his reputation as a director of adventure documentaries with his partner Schoedsack. 
 Their 1925 ''Grass,'' about the epic migration of a tribe of cattle herders in Persia (now Iran), and their 1927 ''Chang,'' a family drama set in the jungles of what was then called Siam, arrive on DVD today from Milestone Films, and while neither is a model of modern ethnography, both are compelling portraits of precisely that preindustrial world that ''King Kong'' elegizes. They are reminders, too, of a time when filmmaking itself was an adventure, rather than the desk job it threatens to become in the digital era. The films, silent with musical accompaniment and discreet color tinting, are priced at $29.99. Neither has been rated. 

Two by Fritz Lang
 Fritz Lang's film noir ''Scarlet Street'' (1945) slipped into the public domain some years ago and has since been all too easy to see: the discount video racks swarm with dim, fuzzy copies. Meanwhile, his 1949 ''House by the River'' has virtually vanished, tied up in legal limbo while its negative decomposed and few known prints vanished.
 Both are now back in fine form thanks to Kino on Video, ''Scarlet Street'' in a sharp, clear new copy derived from a first-generation print in the Library of Congress, and ''House by the River'' in a dark but acceptable copy discovered (to judge from the opening credits) in Britain. Both are indispensable for admirers of the great German filmmaker. 
 A remake of ''La Chienne'' (1931) by Jean Renoir, ''Scarlet Street'' devotes a regrettable amount of its running time to dancing around the pruderies of the Hollywood production code. Edward G. Robinson, as the henpecked Sunday painter played by Michel Simon in the original, is no longer victimized by a prostitute and her pimp, but by an ''actress'' (Joan Bennett) and her unemployed ''fiance'' (the indescribably sleazy Dan Duryea), who believe Robinson to be a famous artist and bilk him accordingly. Lang seems only superficially engaged with the masochism of the film's first act, but then comes to life for the revenge finale, as Robinson discovers his inner sadist and sets up a cruel fate for his tormentors. 
 Made on a small budget for Republic Pictures, ''House by the River'' is another tale of victimization and revenge, though it is far more ambiguous in its meanings and more abstract in its execution. Louis Hayward plays a writer who accidentally kills his maid while making a pass at her. He manages to sink her body in the ghastly, polluted river that runs directly behind his house and then exploit the notoriety of her mysterious disappearance to promote his career as a novelist. 
 The screenplay seems only half finished, but plot details hardly matter in the face of Lang's enveloping visual style, in which shadow corridors and billowing curtains transform what looks like a standing hotel set from a Republic western into an expressionist nightmare. Both films are $24.95; neither has been rated. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: View from the top: The original ''King Kong'' makes its debut on DVD. (Photo by Photofest)
 Joan Bennett and Dan Duryea in Fritz Lang's ''Scarlet Street.'' (Photo by Kino on Video) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); FILM (76%); CENSORSHIP (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); PRIMATES (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%) Recordings (Video) ; Reviews; Motion Pictures

PERSON: Dave Kehr; Fritz (1890-1976) Lang

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005



453 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: November Rally Continues Despite Oil-Price Pressure

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street extended its November rally with modest gains yesterday despite pressure from oil prices and a major corporate restructuring plan at General Motors. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index pushed past four-year highs reached Friday as an improving economic backdrop energized the market. But some traders stayed on the sidelines, awaiting indications of how retailers would fare during this year's holiday rush, which starts Friday, the day after Thanksgiving.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 53.95 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,820.28, the index's highest closing level since March 10. The advance put the Dow into positive territory for the year. 
 The S.& P. 500 added 6.58 points, or 0.53 percent, to 1,254.85, and the Nasdaq gained 14.60 points, or 0.66 percent, to 2,241.67. Smaller stocks performed still better, with the Russell 2000 index up 1 percent, to 678.96. 
 Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange surpassed those declining by a margin of 5 to 3. Volume declined to 1.56 billion shares from 1.82 billion on Friday. 
 There was muted reaction to a report by the Conference Board that the index of leading economic indicators rose 0.9 percent last month, after an 0.8 percent decline in September attributed largely to the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Weather forecasters said that an approaching snowstorm could reach Northeastern states by midweek, raising the prospect of higher oil prices on renewed supply concerns. In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday, crude oil for January delivery added 49 cents, settling at $57.70.
 Gold prices climbed. December gold on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange settled at $489.50, up $3.30.
 G.M. said it would eliminate 30,000 jobs, 5,000 more than it had previously indicated, in an effort to cut $7 billion of expenses by next year, $1 billion more than previously estimated. Shares of G.M. fell 47 cents to $23.58.
 Mergers and acquisitions again dominated the day's news. The Mentor Corporation offered $2.2 billion in stock for Medicis Pharmaceutical, which rejected the bid and said it was committed to its proposed takeover of Inamed. Last week, Allergan offered a higher bid for Inamed of $3.2 billion. Mentor dropped $4.79 yesterday to $51.35. Medicis surged $3.82 to $31.57, while Allergan lost 65 cents, closing at $99.60, and Inamed rose 2 cents to $83.33.
 A nursing home operator, Beverly Enterprises, agreed to be bought by Fillmore Capital Partners for $1.5 billion and the assumption of debt. Beverly climbed 14 cents to $11.87.
 Shares of the Computer Sciences Corporation fell $6.47, or nearly 12 percent, to $48.38, after The Wall Street Journal reported on Saturday that Lockheed Martin and three private equity firms had ended talks on buying out the company. Lockheed rose $1.22 to $61.18.
 Boeing received big orders from Chinese airlines for 737's and over the weekend from Emirates Airlines for 777's. Yesterday, it received orders for 26 of its new 787 Dreamliner jets from the International Lease Finance Corporation, a unit of American International Group, and Low-Cost Aircraft Leasing, which bought 20 and 6 planes, respectively. Boeing rose $2.05 to $69, a 52-week closing high, and A.I.G. was up 46 cents to $67.63.
 Technology stocks got some positive news from TiVo, which said it was expanding its video-recording service so users could upload television programs to Apple iPods or Sony PlayStation Portables. TiVo gained 23 cents to $5.50, Apple Computer rose 40 cents to $64.96, and American depository receipts of Sony added $1.25 to $36.46.
 On the bond market, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 8/32, to 100 10/32. Its yield fell to 4.46 percent from 4.49 percent on Friday.
 Following are the results of the Treasury's auction of three- and six-month bills. These are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month bills:
 (000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.015	97.910	High Rate	 3.940	 4.155	Investment Rate	 4.034	 4.303	Low Rate	 3.920	 4.135	Median Rate	 3.930	 4.145	Total applied for	$53,825,780	$46,765,600	Accepted	$25,213,322	$22,433,069	Noncompetitive	$2,142,162	$1,565,170	

Both issues are dated Nov. 25, 2005. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 23, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on May 25, 2006.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MERGERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); THANKSGIVING (71%); HURRICANES (65%); WEATHER (64%); PRIVATE EQUITY (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: MENTOR CORP (81%); COMPUTER SCIENCES CORP (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); MEDICIS PHARMACEUTICAL CORP (52%); ALLERGAN INC (51%); GGNSC HOLDINGS LLC (51%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (50%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: CSC (NYSE) (60%); GM (NYSE) (58%); AGN (NYSE) (51%); LMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (81%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (60%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (60%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (51%); NAICS623110 NURSING CARE FACILITIES (SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES) (51%); SIC8059 NURSING & PERSONAL CARE FACILITIES, NEC (51%); SIC8051 SKILLED NURSING CARE FACILITIES (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005



454 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Rail Station Looks West To Find Tenant

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The long-running project to make an expanded Pennsylvania Station into a majestic transit hub in Midtown has finally secured its first and most important tenant: New Jersey's state-operated commuter railroad.
 New Jersey Transit said yesterday that it had reached an agreement with the State of New York to be the anchor tenant of Moynihan Station, on the west side of Eighth Avenue at 33rd Street. The deal, which is expected to lead to a 99-year lease by summer that will cost the railroad about $4.8 million a year, would make New Jersey commuters the prime beneficiaries of the $818 million redevelopment of the city's main post office into a palatial train station.
 The station, across the avenue from Penn Station, was originally intended to serve as a new home for Amtrak. But Amtrak backed out of plans to move there and the Long Island Rail Road also chose to stay put at Penn Station. 
 That left Moynihan Station, the pet project of Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, who died in 2003, without a railroad and in jeopardy of becoming Moynihan Mall. New Jersey Transit jumped into the void, grabbing the chance to move its Manhattan operations one block west and gain operational control over a home of its own.
 The agreement brings together some odd bedfellows. Charles A. Gargano, who as chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation is one of the most vocal champions of economic development in New York, is linking arms with the operators of an out-of-state transit agency.
 ''New Jersey Transit is growing and we want the station to be successful,'' Mr. Gargano said. ''If it brings people into New York City, that's what we want, isn't it?''
 Mr. Gargano pointed out that New Jersey Transit carries far more passengers into and out of the city -- more than 100,000 every weekday -- than Amtrak does. And, he added, some of them are New York State residents who live west of the Hudson River.
 Most of the money that will be spent to recast the building, which houses the James A. Farley Post Office, will come from the federal government and New York state and city agencies. New Jersey Transit said it would pay about $2.3 million annually to rent 35,000 square feet of the station and as much as $2.5 million a year toward operating costs.
 George D. Warrington, the executive director of New Jersey Transit, called the deal a ''once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to be able to plant the flag'' in the heart of the city. ''We have no substantial presence in New York today,'' he said. ''I'm so desperate for space over there.''
 As the third of three railroads making heavy use of Penn Station, New Jersey Transit has been in a bind. Its customers have been funneled through fewer stairwells to reach the train platforms below the street. Its offices there are so cramped that it has to rent rooms in the Hotel Pennsylvania across Seventh Avenue for its crews to rest between morning and evening runs.
 Under the agreement, New Jersey Transit will have operational control of Moynihan Station, though customers of Amtrak and the Long Island Rail Road will be able to reach their trains by passing through it and under Eighth Avenue.
 The agreement is the second Mr. Warrington has reached with Mr. Gargano about the project. Mr. Warrington was running Amtrak several years ago when he agreed that Amtrak would be the station's anchor tenant. But after Amtrak's board replaced Mr. Warrington with David Gunn, Mr. Gunn broke off the deal.
 Amtrak's reversal nearly derailed the Moynihan plan, but yesterday Mr. Gargano said that with Amtrak's future in doubt after the dismissal of Mr. Gunn this month, it may have turned out to be a blessing.
 ''They missed out, in our opinion,'' Mr. Gargano said of Amtrak. 
 But, he added, ''Who knows if Amtrak will be around in the future?''
 Maura Moynihan, the senator's daughter who is now working at the Regional Plan Association, said: ''This way we have a stable anchor tenant who's a neighbor. It's important to keep the tristate relations going. None of this is a competition.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%) 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORP (92%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%)

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey Transit

INDUSTRY: NAICS485210 INTERURBAN & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4131 INTERCITY & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005



455 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: At Entry Points, on the Lookout for Symptoms

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Expanding an old weapon in the struggle against infectious disease, the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has opened 10 new quarantine stations at major ports of entry in the past 18 months and plans to add several more in the coming year. 
 The United States now has medical officers at 17 airports and at the busy border crossing in El Paso to screen people entering the country for communicable diseases. They are particularly alert for travelers showing symptoms of the deadly avian influenza virus that has spread across Asia and into Europe. 
The avian flu strain, known as H5N1, has forced the slaughter of millions of chickens and other fowl and has caused 67 human deaths as of late last week, according to the World Health Organization. The virus, while affecting huge numbers of birds, is not yet efficiently transmitted among people. But medical authorities fear that the virus could mutate into a lethal human flu strain and touch off a global pandemic that could kill millions.
 Dr. William R. Mac Kenzie, the medical officer at the C.D.C. quarantine station at Los Angeles International Airport, said things were quiet in his small office. He receives one or two reports a week from international airlines reporting passengers with flu-like symptoms. Those travelers are examined and asked about where they had traveled and whether they had contact with live birds.
 No such cases have arisen, Dr. Mac Kenzie said, but if one did, the passenger would not be detained but referred to a local hospital. Because there are few cases of human-to-human infection, the remaining passengers on the aircraft would not be quarantined, he said.
 ''At this point, we're not actively looking for sniffles and coughs,'' Dr. Mac Kenzie said. ''Of course, that could change if there was a change in the transmission pattern and human-to-human infection becomes common.''
 The posting of medical officers at ports and the use of a quarantine to slow or stop the entry of disease-carrying travelers dates to the epidemic of bubonic plague in the 14th century, when the authorities in Venice required ships arriving from infected countries to remain at anchor in the port for 40 days before anyone could disembark. The term quarantine comes from Italian for 40 days -- quaranta giorni.
 In the United States, during an outbreak of yellow fever, Congress passed legislation in 1878 giving federal authorities the power to declare a quarantine to stop the spread of the disease. That power was expanded in 1892, when cholera began showing up in immigrants. Extensive screening of immigrants for a variety of diseases became commonplace at American ports, and many people were quarantined before being admitted as permanent residents.
 The quarantine program essentially died in the 1970's with the eradication of smallpox and several other communicable diseases. But the perceived need for greater medical surveillance at American borders has gained new attention since 2001, when the anthrax attacks brought a new fear of biological terrorism.
 In late 2002 and 2003, cases of severe acute respiratory syndrome were seen among international travelers entering the United States and Canada from Asia, prompting Congress and the C.D.C. to reinvigorate the quarantine program.
 ''The SARS outbreak was an excellent illustration of the rapidity in which infectious diseases can spread throughout the world, given the rapid means of transportation,'' said Dr. Ram Koppaka, chief of the quarantine and border health services branch of the C.D.C. 
 Dr. Koppaka said that before the SARS outbreak, the United States had not posted medical officers at its quarantine stations for more than 40 years. But the threat of various strains of influenza, as well as other exotic diseases like the Ebola virus, warranted more stringent medical screening, he said.
 Dr. Koppaka said the C.D.C. had also dispatched health officers to a number of Asian countries to work with local authorities to contain the outbreak before it could reach the United States.
 The avian flu is still chiefly a bird disease, with only 130 human cases reported, all in Asia, officials said. But if an infected person were to enter the United States, there is a good chance that he or she would arrive at Los Angeles International Airport, the port of entry for 22 percent of air travelers arriving from Asia. 
 Travelers entering from countries where the bird flu has been reported are not routinely questioned or informed about warning signs of the disease, as they were during the SARS epidemic. Japan, however, is beginning to ask travelers entering from affected countries to have their shoes disinfected at airports to prevent poultry manure, believed to carry the disease, from entering the country. The virus has not appeared in birds or humans in Japan.
 Dr. Jonathan E. Fielding, the director of public health for Los Angeles County, said that his office received frequent reports of ill travelers during the SARS outbreak and that the United States was fortunate the disease did not become more widespread here.
 Dr. Fielding said that if the avian flu strain that has proved deadly in people in Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia and China were to develop into a highly communicable human disease, it would be almost impossible to stop at the border. The virus has also shown up among birds in Laos, Mongolia, Russia, Kazakhstan, Turkey and Romania.
 ''We may well catch people early, but to assume we can prevent entry in all cases simply by increasing surveillance is very optimistic,'' Dr. Fielding said. ''The reason we're freaked out is we don't know the likelihood that this could be transformed into a virus that could be easily transmitted from person to person.''
 Dr. Fielding and other health officers around the country are scrambling to stockpile antiviral medicines and planning for a potential surge in hospital admissions. Dr. Fielding pointed out that the fatality rate for people who have contracted the virus is roughly 50 percent.
 For now, the likelihood of avian flu mutating into a highly contagious human strain is relatively small, said Dr. Scott P. Layne, an associate professor of epidemiology at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has studied avian flu for eight years.
 But if mutation occurs, he said, the consequences will be devastating.
 ''All of this sounds like bad science fiction,'' Dr. Layne said, ''but if it does get going in people, it will have major consequences on the medical level, the scientific level, the economic level and the societal level.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ellen DeMott, a public health officer, at work at the quarantine station at Kennedy Airport in New York. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFECTIOUS DISEASE (92%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); INFLUENZA (91%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); TROPICAL DISEASES (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); VIRUSES (78%); ANIMAL QUARANTINE (78%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (78%); SMALLPOX (78%); IMMIGRATION (76%); AIRLINES (76%); POULTRY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%) 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (91%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

PERSON: John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005



456 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Storm Forces a Hard Look at Troubled Public Housing

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
For years, cities across the nation have been declaring old-style public housing complexes a social experiment gone awry, emptying the buildings and, with a good-riddance press of the plunger, blowing them up.
 In New Orleans, for better or worse, nature seems to have done some of the job.
As with so much else here, Hurricane Katrina seriously damaged many of the buildings run by the local housing authority, tearing off roofs and flooding lower floors. Officials are vowing to use this crisis to step up their efforts to remake the long-troubled system, which had housed about 20,000 people, nearly 5 percent of the city's population. 
 In the future, local and federal housing officials say, the poor will no longer be clustered in isolated, low-rise housing developments that had the disheartening feel of barracks and often became magnets for social ills. Some of the existing projects will be torn down, and smaller structures, like townhouses, will be erected in their place, with middle-class residents living among less prosperous ones.
 ''We are not going to build traditional public housing anymore,'' the federal housing secretary, Alphonso Jackson, said on a visit to New Orleans this month. Mr. Jackson's agency, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, is pledging to spend more than $1.8 billion to rebuild government and private housing in the Gulf region ravaged by the hurricane.
 The future of the housing authority is a crucial issue for this city, which is already facing a housing shortage that is having a ripple effect on the hobbled local economy. Businesses cannot reopen because they cannot find workers, and workers are not returning to the city in large part because they cannot find places to live.
 The authority said half of its 10 largest developments suffered serious damage in the hurricane, including at least two that were considered decrepit and needed to be replaced. The authority had 7,500 units, 5,300 of which were occupied when the hurricane struck; few residents have been allowed to return to their apartments. And with the public housing system largely emptied of people, the authority said it had an opportunity to consider ambitious plans. 
 Given the system's track record, the need for a major redevelopment is evident. Public housing was for decades a part of New Orleans that most visitors never saw: tumbledown groups of buildings overseen by a poorly managed, patronage-ridden local authority.
 In the mid-1990's, federal inspectors found that of a selection of 75 apartments that they examined, 70 failed quality standards, describing the conditions as ''deplorable, unsafe and in many instances unfit for human habitation.'' 
 In another typical finding, inspectors discovered that 21 handymen at one project claimed a total of 1,019 hours of overtime in just two weeks, an average of 49 hours per person. In reality, they were doing little work, and areas of the project were flooded with sewage from broken pipes.
 In 2001, an official in the HUD inspector general's office, D. Michael Beard, offered a Congressional committee a series of photographs showing poor conditions in the housing developments, culminating with one that showed a large hole in a bathroom that had gone unmended for three years. ''The smell drove the auditors out of the bathroom,'' Mr. Beard testified. 
 The next year, the federal government seized control of the authority. Lori Moon, one of the private consultants who took over, said turning it around was a ''monumental task.''
 A look at the C. J. Peete housing project before the storm illustrates her point. The project, which will be one of the first to be redesigned, was in many ways an embodiment of all that went wrong here as the city sought a way to house its poor.
 It was easy to get lost in the project amid rows of brick buildings on trash-strewn grounds set off from the rest of the Central City neighborhood. Crime was common -- ''all the drugs, all the guns, all the fighting,'' was how one resident, Rosemary Johnson, described it recently.
 The project was once home to about 5,000 people, though in recent years, the authority had begun to shut down buildings. Some were demolished. The rest sat unused, with broken windows, pockmarked walls and barbed wire fences giving them a sinister look. 
 While C. J. Peete suffered moderate wind damage, not flooding, in the hurricane, officials said it was still a prime candidate to be refurbished because it was already in bad shape.
 A few residents, including Ms. Johnson, returned recently to see what could be salvaged from their apartments. 
 ''We don't know what the future holds,'' said Ms. Johnson, a hotel housekeeper who had lived in the housing project all her life -- she had been paying $299 a month in rent -- and was evacuated to El Paso. ''They need to rethink things through before they tear this down. Why tear it down now if it's still livable? People need housing now.''
 This view is not unusual among public housing residents. People who once lived at B. W. Cooper, a project that was bleakly similar in scope to C. J. Peete but suffered far more damage, including several feet of flooding, said they wondered whether it could be salvaged.
 Before Hurricane Katrina, the private consultants running the authority had been trying to revamp the system by pressing long-delayed plans to put up new buildings. 
 A signature project, built in the last few years on the site of the old Desire development, was called Abundance Square, with buildings more akin to suburban-style townhouses. Many more were planned, but the project was in the Ninth Ward, badly hit by the hurricane, and it was wrecked.
 ''We were taking it community by community before Katrina,'' said Ms. Moon, the consultant. ''Now we are going to be looking at it from a far more holistic approach.''
 Whatever the authority's problems, some residents said they were eager to restart their lives. Elmonzia Glapion stayed at the Iberville project for seven days after the flood, even with several inches of water in her living room. She did not want to leave without her dog.
 Finally, Ms. Glapion was evacuated to North Carolina, but then she returned and began living as a squatter in her own apartment, without utilities, spending her days trying to dry out the furniture and scrubbing the scum from the floors and walls.
 ''I was born in New Orleans, and it's not so easy to leave,'' Ms. Glapion said. ''There's nothing like your own home.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Elmonzia Glapion, with her dog, Baby, on the front porch of her apartment in the Iberville housing project in New Orleans recently. Left, the B. W. Cooper housing project, which was flooded. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Department of Housing and Urban Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (94%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HURRICANES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); OVERTIME (68%) 

PERSON: ALPHONSO JACKSON (58%) Clifford J Levy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005



457 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: European Rebuffs Talk of Series of Rate Rises

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY; International Herald Tribune

 BODY:
The president of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, said yesterday that the bank had no plan to embark on a series of interest rate increases, but would assess the need for them over time. 
 Mr. Trichet had signaled on Friday that the bank was poised to lift its benchmark rate modestly for the first time in five years when its monetary-policy group meets next week. His remarks, though, were taken by some as a hint that the bank might initiate a series of rate rises, as the Federal Reserve is doing.
Responding to criticism that the bank could choke off a nascent economic rebound in Europe, Mr. Trichet told the monetary affairs committee of the European Parliament in Brussels, ''It would not be a good working assumption, ex ante, to consider that we are at the start of a series of interest rate increases.'' 
 Though he shed little light on how the bank might act beyond its policy meeting on Dec. 1, Mr. Trichet emphasized that the bank would be calibrating its benchmark rate to the conditions of the euro zone as they develop, rather than making assumptions leading to a prolonged cycle of higher rates.
 The euro, which rose against the dollar Friday on speculation that the bank was entering just such a cycle of rate increases, fell shortly after Mr. Trichet spoke yesterday. In New York, the euro settled at $1.1720, down from $1.1764 on Friday.
 The European benchmark rate has long been 2 percent, and there was speculation that it would be raised to 2.25 percent at the meeting.
 Yesterday, Mr. Trichet reiterated the central bank's belief that high oil prices justified action, as inflation, now 2.5 percent, was running above its informal target of 2 percent.
 But even as he underscored the bank's modest intentions, he drew criticism from Jean-Claude Juncker, chairman of the group of euro zone finance ministers. ''I regard this interest rate move as too early,'' Mr. Juncker, finance minister of Luxembourg, said in Berlin, according to Reuters. Mr. Juncker, Agence France-Presse reported, discounted the central bank's concerns about oil prices and inflation and challenged it to ''prove that it will not brake the already weak forces of growth'' in the euro zone.
 Mr. Trichet spent much of his testimony making a vigorous defense of the bank's plans and fielding questions from skeptical members of Parliament, who said that higher borrowing costs would squeeze economies already burdened by high unemployment. ''We don't see a contradiction between price stability and job creation,'' he said, ''and I trust the people of Europe do not see a contradiction.''
 Europeans, he said, had told him prices were rising ''a little too far.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean-Claude Trichet, the bank's president, in Brussels yesterday. (Photo by Yves Herman/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TRENDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); JOB CREATION (69%) Interest Rates; Credit; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%) European Union; European Central Bank

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (92%) Jean-Claude Trichet; Carter Dougherty

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); BELGIUM (91%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (76%) Europe; Europe

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2005



458 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Stuck In the Middle

BYLINE: By Dan Barber. 
Dan Barber is the chef of Blue Hill at Stone Barns and the creative director of the Stone Barns Center for Food and Agriculture.

 BODY:
THIS Thanksgiving there's something to be really thankful for: more and more Americans -- at least 250,000 of them in New York alone this week -- are shopping for their turkeys and sweet potatoes at local farmers' markets. 
 They're doing so because the food is fresher, less processed and generally tastes better than what you'd find in a supermarket. But there are also political and social considerations: supporting small farmers, these shoppers believe, will preserve farmland, reduce the number of industrial farms and help us move away from an agricultural economy that encourages the production of commodities like corn, soy and sugar at the expense of just about everything else.
These people are right. And they're also wrong. The bitter truth is that American agriculture -- its land and its immensely complex distribution system -- is no longer in the hands of the small farmer. Small farmers and farmers' markets, as much as we want them to, are simply not in the position right now to save American agriculture. 
 Giant farms won't either, of course. For the most part, these are the farms that grow a single crop or raise large numbers of animals in close confinement. To sustain their unnatural existence, these megafarms, whether they're raising crops or animals, require enormous quantities of pesticides, fertilizers and antibiotics simply to survive. The result? Pollution, erosion and diseases that spread easily among factory-raised, immune-deficient animals.
 Sadly, these farms aren't going away. In a perverse logic that defies nature, a farm needs to get ever larger and more specialized to survive. The number of farms with annual sales of more than $500,000 has increased 23 percent from 1997 to 2002. American farm policy, with a dazzling menu of subsidies, will keep us on this path for the foreseeable future.
 The answer to this agricultural puzzle lies somewhere in the middle. Actually, it lies exactly in the middle, with the nation's 350,000 midsize farmers. These farmers, who are too big to sell directly to greenmarkets but too small to compete with highly subsidized industrial farms, cultivate more than 40 percent of our farmland. 
 Such farmers tend to be highly effective stewards of the land, with intimate knowledge of their farms and their communities. They are small-business owners -- not corporations -- and have proven records of being interested in protecting not just the economic health of the land, but its ecological health as well.
 Unfortunately, these farmers are also on the way out. Midsize farms, with sales of $50,000 to $500,000, are declining rapidly. According to government figures, the number of these farms has declined 14 percent from 1997 to 2002, a net loss of nearly 65,000 farms. 
 According to Fred Kirschenmann of the Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture at Iowa State, it is no longer hard to imagine that most of the farms of the middle will be gone in another a decade.
 Why should we care? Because our ways of farming are intimately linked to the destructive ways we're eating. Think about your local supermarket. There's fresh produce on the perimeter; but venture into the middle aisles and you're surrounded by processed, canned, preserved and frozen foods. 
 It may appear to be a world of variety, but look closer. The cookies, granola bars, crackers, chips, salad dressings and baby food all have one thing in common: they are made from derivations of corn, soy and sugar. About 70 percent of our agricultural land in the Midwest is devoted to producing these crops. 
 The farms that produce these single commodities average about 14,000 acres, roughly the size of Manhattan. And the future? Thomas Dorr, under secretary of agriculture for rural affairs, has predicted that 250,000-acre behemoths will dominate agriculture. If they do, the number of farms in Mr. Dorr's home state, Iowa, would drop to about 120 from 89,000.
 That shouldn't come as a surprise. ''Get big or get out'' has been what farmers have been told for decades. And big farms have come with one big benefit: inexpensive food. Americans spend a smaller percentage of their disposable income for food than anyone else in the developed world. But these savings are illusory. 
 A funny thing happened on the way to our cheap food system. The books were being cooked in a kind of shell game, Enron-style. The real cost of these monocultures were not being properly accounted for: those taxpayer-financed subsidies ($143 billion over the last decade), the unfairness that results when our excess production gets dumped on developing countries that then can't develop their own resources, the environmental effects of pesticide runoff -- the list goes on. 
 Midsize farms have the potential to be profitable without these hidden costs. After all, there's a large, existing market -- school systems, hospitals, local grocery chains, food service distributors -- for varied, healthier foods. These institutions, because of their size, cannot shop at the farmers' market. Even if they could, there would never be enough volume or consistency to meet their needs.
 Midsize farms can meet those needs. They may be caught up in the commodity game right now -- trying to expand, trying to focus on single crops -- but that's largely because that's where the incentives are. For many of these farms, racing to keep up will be their downfall.
 We need to encourage these farms to do what they do best: grow a variety of crops, raise a variety of animals, resist the temptation to grow too much.
 How do we do this? By shifting the money. Our government now subsidizes the commodity production of grain -- mostly corn and soybeans. We need to pull farmers out of the commodity trap and help them make the transition to growing the kinds of whole foods -- fruits and vegetables -- that would benefit us all. This is not another subsidy, and it's not welfare. It's seed money for a new frontier (actually, an old frontier) in agriculture.
 A small number of midsize farms have already arrived. Niman Ranch with meats, and Organic Valley with milk, are examples of profitable alternatives to factory farms. Large food-service companies too, like Sysco, are responding to their customers' increased desire for products that have a story attached to them by reaching out to midsize farms. 
 Make no mistake: this change will require us to change our ways. We're going to have to support a diet that contains fewer processed, commodity-based foods. We're going to have to pay more for what we eat. We're going to have to contend with those who question whether it's practical to reduce subsidies for large farmers and food producers. And we're going to have to reward farmers for growing the food we want for our children.
 These recommendations may seem bold to the point of audacious. But are they really? After all, what could be more audacious -- or contrary to the rural heritage we celebrate this week -- then great stretches of our landscape covered with 250,000-acre farms?


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Gina Triplett, Matt Curtius, Kelly Blair)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FACTORY FARMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); THANKSGIVING (78%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (77%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (75%); SALES FIGURES (74%); PESTICIDES (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); FERTILIZERS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (65%); ANTIBIOTICS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



459 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM UGANDA/Marc Lacey; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: By Fits and Starts, Africa's Brand of Democracy Emerges

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: KAMPALA, Uganda, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
One way of judging the repressive nature of an African president is by standing in the center of that leader's capital city and calling him awful names. 
 By that measure, President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda could be worse. He is being called a dictator, a thug, a power-hungry autocrat and even harsher things than that these days, and for the most part he is taking it, not trying to round up or eliminate all those who dare speak ill of him, which has been done in this country in the past.
 On top of that, Mr. Museveni has been rather adept during his 19 years in power at rebuilding Uganda's tattered economy. He has won widespread praise for his early and activist leadership when it comes to combating AIDS. An erudite man, he speaks passionately of his desire for a modern, robust and, most of all, peaceful Uganda and he sounds very much as if he means it. 
 But Mr. Museveni, billed during President Clinton's administration as one of Africa's new generation of enlightened, democratic leaders, has proved himself something far less grand than that. He and others like him -- notably, Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia and Paul Kagame of Rwanda -- have disappointed those who were hoping for Western-style democracy to emerge in full flower in 21st-century Africa. 
 But if they have fallen short of that goal -- a naive one, they say -- they have succeeded in holding together troubled countries with undeveloped democratic institutions and traditions. If that has occasionally meant resorting to ugly and authoritarian methods, so be it, they say. That's African-style democracy, something the West would not understand.
 With a long tradition of tyrants in its midst, Africa does seem to have improved its leadership, even as television images from the eastern precincts of the continent recently seem to show a region in crisis. Mr. Museveni, however flawed, is nothing like the murderous Idi Amin or even Milton Obote, another Ugandan strongman of the past. Mr. Meles, Ethiopia's hard-line prime minister, is a far cry from the dictator he ousted, Mengistu Haile Mariam. Mr. Kagame, despite his tight grip on his country, did quell the ethnic slaughter in 1994 that was orchestrated by the government he replaced.
 But such leaders, promoted by Washington and other Western capitals as Africa's saviors, are increasingly seen as mere mortals. ''I don't think Museveni was ever the leader the world thought he was,'' said Proscovia Salaamu Musumba, deputy president of the Forum for Democratic Change, a major Ugandan opposition group. ''It was an illusion.''
 The corruption is less blatant than it was with their predecessors, most here agree, the jailing of opponents far less prevalent.
 ''They are better than the ones before, but in their burning desire to remain in power they are the same,'' said Ted Dagne, an Africa analyst with the Congressional Research Service in Washington. In what he called ''a policy blunder from which we have yet to recover,'' American policy on Africa has focused too much on personalities, Mr. Dagne said. 
 Perhaps the most prominent, and ambiguous, of those personalities is Mr. Museveni. While Uganda is preparing to hold its first multiparty presidential elections since he came to power 20 years ago, the government jailed the country's main opposition leader, Kizza Besigye, last week, accusing him of treason. Mr. Besigye returned to Uganda from exile last month to huge enthusiastic crowds and declared himself a candidate for the 2006 elections. Now he is off the campaign trail and in Kampala's maximum security prison.
 Uganda's press, feisty and independent, frequently earns the wrath of the president, which happens in democracies the world over. But Mr. Museveni sometimes oversteps. His government has demanded that The Monitor, an independent paper, apologize and retract an article suggesting that Mr. Museveni offered the job of army chief to his younger brother, who declined, before settling on someone else. Government sanctions loom if the paper does not comply. 
 The government has also put pressure on the paper to fire a reporter, Andrew Mwenda, who already faces sedition and other charges for reports that got under Mr. Museveni's skin. The police also entered the paper's printing plant the other night, objecting to an advertisement raising money for Mr. Besigye's legal defense.
 But Uganda at least has an independent press, a far cry from Eritrea, where reporters are in jail or in hiding and no voice other than that of President Isaias Afwerki is heard. He, too, was once one of Washington's favorite sons.
 African presidencies are no longer the lifetime positions they once were. In Kenya, Mwai Kibaki defeated the ruling party in 2002. In another display, 15 former African heads of state convened in Mali several months back to discuss the important role that retired leaders can play improving Africa from outside of government.
 Mr. Museveni should be on the verge of joining that group. But with his second and supposedly last term coming to a close, he pushed to have constitutional limits on his tenure lifted, allowing him to run again in elections next year.
 The question remains whether there is such a thing as African democracy. It's not a complete oxymoron. Rigging elections, while still part of the landscape, is becoming a cause for embarrassment, done surreptitiously. Putting up with criticism and dissent is increasingly seen as part of the job. For every leader who clings to power, there are others who go when it's time to go. 
 Africa's heads of state do face extraordinary challenges, such as the scores or even hundreds of ethnic or tribal groups within their borders, as well as long histories with violent struggle. They have earned the right to define democracy for themselves and their countries -- so long as they don't scrap democracy in the process. 
 ''I believe he has been and still is a new generation of leader,'' said John Nagenda, a top adviser to Mr. Museveni. ''But the almighty Americans are not going to decide the type of democracy in Uganda, no matter what they label him.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: As Uganda holds its first multiparty vote, the opposition leader Kizza Besigye, at right during his trial, is in prison. (Photo by Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 To some, President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda is a dictator, to others a new type of leader. (Photo by Vanessa Vick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MELES ZENAWI (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KAMPALA, UGANDA (79%) UGANDA (96%); AFRICA (95%); ETHIOPIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); RWANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



460 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Warner Music Settles With Spitzer For $5 Million Over Radio Practices
Warner Music Group has reached a $5 million settlement with the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, to resolve accusations that it made payoffs to persuade radio programmers to play certain songs. [Page C1.] 


Delphi Chief Takes Combatant's Role With Unions
With the Delphi Corporation in bankruptcy proceedings, the chief executive, Robert S. Miller, has been confronting the company's unions in a way that Detroit has rarely seen. [C1.]

The lead plaintiffs in a class-action lawsuit against the Delphi Corporation asked the judge overseeing the company's bankruptcy to reject a proposed $110 million executive pay plan. [C4.]

$5.8 Billion Deal for Utility Creates a Stir in Houston
Houston is buzzing over the $4.9 billion in profit that four elite private equity firms -- the Texas Pacific Group, the Blackstone Group, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Hellman & Friedman -- stand to make from selling an electricity company for $5.8 billion. Market Place. [C1.]

State Street Unit Fined $1.4 Million Over Bond Trades
A unit of the State Street Corporation, the investment bank, was fined $1.4 million by the NASD for its failure to report thousands of corporate and municipal bond trades over a 17-month period. The $5 billion in unreported trades included 89 percent of the corporate bond trades and 79 percent of the municipal bond trades cleared by the unit, known as State Street Global Markets, made from July 2003 to December 2004, the NASD said. The fine is the largest to date by the NASD for bond trade reporting violations. [C3.]

U.S. Says It Will Accept Nafta Decision on Lumber
The Commerce Department said that it would accept a Nafta panel ruling in a long-running dispute with Canada and would substantially reduce hefty duties on Canadian softwood lumber. [C8.]

Fed Hints at Possible End to Rate Increases
The Federal Reserve offered its first hint that its long series of interest rate increases could be drawing to an end. [C3.]

Stocks extended their rally after the Federal Reserve's latest take on the economy raised hopes about interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 51.15 points, to 10,871.43. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 6.38 points, to 1,261.23, and the Nasdaq gained 11.89 points, to 2,253.56. [C6.]

E.ON of Germany to Drop Scottish Power Bid
Germany's giant power and gas company E.ON said that it was abandoning plans to take over Scottish Power after its $:11.3 billion ($19.4 billion) offer was rebuffed. [C7.]

Guidant Settles Lawsuit Over Heart Device
Guidant agreed to settle a lawsuit over the death of a 21-year-old man who used a company-made heart device that failed, said a lawyer representing the man's family. [C4.]

Microsoft Xbox 360 Arrives in Stores
The transition to the next generation of video game consoles began yesterday as stores across the country started selling Microsoft's Xbox 360. [C8.]

Wal-Mart to Match Discounts on Busy Shopping Day
Wal-Mart, which stumbled after offering higher prices meant to spare competitors in 2004, will return to its old self with a campaign to match its rivals' advertised discounts on the day after Thanksgiving. [C1.]

These days, by the time the traditional start of the shopping season arrives on the day after Thanksgiving, most of the big department stores have been decorated for the holidays for weeks. Except, that is, for Nordstrom. [C3.]

More marketers are seeing the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade as a launching pad for promotional campaigns, including product tie-ins involving movies, television shows and merchandise. This year, for example, Nickelodeon is to introduce a balloon of Dora the Explorer, the star of the top-rated cartoon show among preschool-age children and the first Latina character to appear in the parade. More than 50 million viewers watch the three-hour parade on network television, while 2.5 million line the parade route in New York. [C2.]

Web Site to Help Prevent Access to Movies
The creator of software used by millions of computer owners to download movies agreed to prevent his Web site from linking to illegally available movies online, the latest result of a bid by Hollywood to gain control of a growing piracy problem. [C5.]

Popularity of Energy Drinks Causes Concern
Caffeinated energy drinks have become the fastest-growing sector of the $93 billion domestic beverage industry. Energy drinks have as much sugar and roughly three times the caffeine of soda, and some experts peg their popularity to their addictiveness. [C1.]

Private Property and Public Spaces
It has become common in New York City for real estate developers to offer public amenities in exchange for the right to put up buildings that are taller than the zoning ordinarily would allow or to garner public support for projects that might stir controversy. But those amenities -- parks, plazas or atriums, for example -- sometimes fail to live up to expectations, fall into disrepair and are occasionally scrapped altogether. Square Feet. [C5.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of State Street since September. (Sept.: $48.90 -- Nov.: $57.80)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD REVENUES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); BONDS (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CLASS ACTIONS (73%); JUDGES (73%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: STATE STREET CORP (83%); KKR & CO LP (69%); WARNER MUSIC GROUP CORP (59%); HELLMAN & FRIEDMAN LLC (56%); TPG CAPITAL LP (56%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (56%); E.ON SE (51%)

TICKER: STT (NYSE) (83%); KKR (NYSE) (69%); BX (NYSE) (56%); EOAN (FRA) (51%); EOAN (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS512230 MUSIC PUBLISHERS (59%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (59%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (56%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (51%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (51%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (51%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (51%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (85%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



461 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Another Day of Trade Talks, but the Same Old Impasse

BYLINE: By TOM WRIGHT

DATELINE: GENEVA, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
Trade officials from the United States, Europe and leading developing countries meeting here Tuesday were again unable to move ahead in global trade talks, with a major trade meeting in Hong Kong only weeks away. 
 The impasse continued as the World Trade Organization released a report by Crawford Falconer, the New Zealand diplomat who is chairman of the global trade body's agriculture committee, warning that failure to move ahead on agriculture risked jeopardizing the progress made in trade negotiations since July 2004.
The report also shed light on how far apart the countries remain on agricultural subsidies and tariffs, still the largest area of disagreement.
 ''You don't close divergences by taking time off to have a cup of tea,'' Mr. Falconer wrote in the report, a draft version of a document that trade ministers will review in Hong Kong beginning Dec. 13. ''If you do so, you will find that everybody has moved backward in the meantime.''
 Peter Mandelson, the European Union's top trade negotiator, is under pressure to sweeten an offer to cut tariffs and subsidies on farm goods. The United States and developing countries say that the current European offer does not go far enough.
 In return, Mr. Mandelson wants developing countries like Brazil to open their markets to European industrial goods, in the hope that it would persuade his critics in the union, especially France, to back further cuts to farm subsidies.
 But no new offers were put on the table Tuesday after Mr. Mandelson met with Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, and officials from Brazil, India and Japan.
 ''We are not there,'' said Kamal Nath, the Indian trade minister, ''because some countries want to continue with the trade-distorting support in agriculture.''
 Mr. Portman, speaking after the meeting, said it was proving difficult to balance the demands of so many countries. There are 148 members of the W.T.O., which reaches decisions through consensus.
 ''Without having all the pieces of the puzzle together,'' Mr. Portman said, ''it is difficult to agree on one piece.''
 Mr. Nath said ministers would meet again in the first week of December, probably in Geneva.
 The report said that wealthy countries had made progress on reducing the billions of dollars spent annually to support farmers. When the current round of trade talks began in Doha, Qatar, in 2001, the United States and Europe agreed to scrap most of the subsidies, which artificially depress world prices for goods like cotton and sugar.
 The major sticking point, the report said, was how to reduce the large tariffs that many rich countries, led by Europe, impose on agricultural imports.
 Europe has argued that it should be allowed to designate a number of sensitive products that would face minimal cuts in tariffs or none at all. Under the latest European proposal, such items would amount to no more than 8 percent of total agricultural products. The United States and Australia want a limit of 1 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, said yesterday that it was proving difficult to balance so many countries' demands. (Photo by Laurent Gillieron/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (85%); PETER MANDELSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (93%); INDIA (92%); QATAR (92%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



462 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: China Snubs Democracy

 BODY:
Almost everywhere President Bush went in Asia last week, he proclaimed America's support for democracy and human rights in China. And almost every time he did so, Chinese leaders either ignored him or changed the subject. Beijing even dispensed with the symbolic gestures that often accompany American presidential visits. None of the human rights cases Mr. Bush personally raised with China's president, Hu Jintao, earlier this year have yet been resolved. Christians who tried to worship alongside Mr. Bush were turned away or detained. Prominent democracy advocates were confined to their homes for the duration of Mr. Bush's stay. 
 Despite the lack of results, we applaud Mr. Bush for raising these sensitive but crucially important issues. Democracy and human rights are universal, not merely American, values. Beijing's stonewalling on democracy is more than a diplomatic snub of Mr. Bush; it is an insult to China's own people. One thing still reliably Communist about the Chinese Communist Party is its Stalinist repression of all political dissent.
Still, the ritualistic American preaching of democracy to China's increasingly confident leaders has become less likely than ever to directly produce any useful effects. Washington's international reputation has been battered by its invasion and botched occupation of Iraq, while China's has been steadily rising on the basis of its phenomenal economic advance. Beijing's leaders are in no mood to listen to lectures from an American government that depends on Chinese surpluses and savings to finance its supersized budget deficits. 
 The best way for America to advance democracy in China, as elsewhere, is by setting a positive and consistent example, at home and abroad. That is not something that the Bush administration has yet learned how to do, even after having made democracy the rhetorical centerpiece of its second-term foreign policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); RELIGION (71%); BUDGETS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); HU JINTAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



463 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Criticized Levee Boards Survive in Louisiana

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Nov. 22 

 BODY:
In the crucial battle of a post-hurricane special legislative session that ended Tuesday, Louisiana lawmakers voted down an effort to reshape the state's fragmented levee protection system, which has long been criticized as a bastion of patronage.
 The proposal, strongly backed by business interests in New Orleans who hoped to demonstrate the state's seriousness in rebuilding, would have consolidated a host of local boards in charge of maintaining the levees in South Louisiana. Each parish has its own board, providing jobs and perks for the politically well connected who are appointed to it. The head of the Orleans Parish board was recently forced to resign after being caught helping himself to $91,000 in ''back pay.'' 
But the consolidation effort was not backed by Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco, who pushed a measure regarded as weaker, and it was soundly defeated in the House on Sunday after passing in the Senate.
 Much of the 17-day special session mirrored the usual course of business at the Capitol. Legislators praised cold beer and oysters in New Orleans and the heroics of a local baseball player who had unfortunately slipped away to Ole Miss, and generally expressed sorrow that so convivial a gathering had to end.
 But these are not usual times in Louisiana. The state is facing an enormous crisis: a loss of nearly $1 billion in tax revenue because of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and the cost of rebuilding New Orleans and the rest of the coast, all while thousands of residents remain homeless, jobless and stateless. Hopes for the special session had been high. 
 In the end, the reviews were mixed. There were what many regarded as some clear accomplishments, including the state's takeover of the New Orleans public schools, an effort backed by the governor that split her from her customary allies among black lawmakers. The schools have for several years been a source of concern in Baton Rouge because of their academic, administrative and financial failures. Corruption on the Orleans Parish School Board has been so endemic that the Federal Bureau of Investigation set up a field office at the board's headquarters. 
 In addition, more than $600 million was cut from the state's $18 billion budget over the 17 days, mostly in health care and education. Many of the cuts were made to the Medicaid program, which would have shrunk anyway because so many thousands of Louisianians, particularly the poorer, are no longer in the state. Some small-scale business tax cuts also passed, along with a Christmastime sales-tax holiday.
 Governor Blanco, a first-term Democrat, called the session a success. But critics expressed doubt that the lawmakers had done enough to convince outside officials, most crucially those in Washington, that Louisiana was focused on political change and the problems at hand. The perception of irresponsibility has made federal lawmakers reluctant to spend billions rebuilding the New Orleans area. 
 ''It is hard to tell whether what the state has done is enough to send a dramatic message that we're doing what we need to do in the way of recovery,'' said Jim Brandt, president of the Public Affairs Research Council, a nonpartisan group here. ''This was the key question: how this plays in Washington, how it plays in Houston,'' where many Louisiana businesses have temporarily set up shop.
 One legislator was more blunt. ''I'm trying to see what we did,'' said Senator Donald R. Cravins, a French-speaking Democrat from the Acadian parishes west of Baton Rouge who is sometimes critical of Ms. Blanco. ''We missed the boat on a lot of things.'' The state did little to put thousands of unemployed people back to work, he added.
 With New Orleans, the state and the federal government signing numerous demolition and reconstruction contracts, and some public officials profiting handsomely, there were also calls to bar Louisiana officials from post-Katrina windfalls. The proposals failed, and the Legislature instead adopted a disclosure measure, much weaker than an outright ban but backed by Governor Blanco. 
 Business groups, desperate to send out any signal that the area was being made safe from floods, strongly backed the levee consolidation measure. But parochial animosities -- age-old enmities between Orleans Parish and neighboring St. Bernard and Jefferson Parishes -- prevailed, as did the governor's own backing of a different plan: simply creating a new commission to oversee the existing levee boards.
 The levee consolidation ''could have been the centerpiece,'' Mr. Cravins said. Now ''business is going to be very reluctant to go back in if they don't have confidence'' -- a sentiment echoed by New Orleans business leaders serving on Mayor C. Ray Nagin's recovery commission, who reacted to the vote with outrage.
 Backslapping and joviality aside, there was ample evidence the legislators were acutely conscious that their actions were taking place on a larger stage. 
 ''We've worked hard in this session,'' Butch Gautreaux, a South Louisiana Democrat, told his colleagues in the Senate chamber as the session wound down Tuesday afternoon. 
 ''I will be praying that others will see how people in Louisiana are working to help themselves,'' Mr. Gautreaux said, worrying aloud that President Bush ''will let this state down.''
 The budget cuts are expected to bring thousands of layoffs, and many of those cuts were met by cries of pain.
 ''Look at these services for what they are,'' Senator Diana E. Bajoie, a New Orleans Democrat, pleaded with other lawmakers. ''We cannot ignore the people who need us most.''
 But in this session of the Democratic-controlled Legislature, lawmakers agreed, the agenda was substantially driven by Republicans, even if they were not always successful. Angering many of her Democratic allies, Ms. Blanco listened to the counsel of the minority, which since the storms had assumed an activist budget-cutting stance.
 With the state still on its knees, though, no one in either party is gloating. 
 ''These are not simple cuts,'' said Senator Jay Dardenne, a Republican from suburban Baton Rouge. ''But they were absolutely necessary, because we don't have the revenue.''
 Mr. Dardenne nonetheless lamented that a Republican dream here -- a wholesale realignment of the state's bloated government -- had been put off.
 ''What we didn't do is totally rethink the budget,'' he said. ''We didn't do the real challenge, of restructuring Louisiana government.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative John A. Alario Jr., seated, chairman of the Louisiana House Appropriations Committee, as the special session ended yesterday. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); CORRUPTION (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); SALES TAX (70%); BUDGETS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); BASEBALL (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (61%); CHRISTMAS (60%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



464 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 574 words

PERSON: Ruth M. Siems

HEADLINE: Ruth M. Siems, 74, Inventor Of a Thanksgiving Mainstay

BYLINE: BY MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Ruth M. Siems, a retired home economist whose best-known innovation will make its appearance, welcome or otherwise, in millions of homes tomorrow, died on Nov. 13 at her home in Newburgh, Ind. Ms. Siems, an inventor of Stove Top stuffing, was 74.
 The cause was a heart attack, according to the Warrick County coroner's office in Boonville, Ind. 
Ms. Siems (pronounced ''Seems'') spent more than three decades on the staff of General Foods, which introduced the Stove Top brand in 1972. Today, Kraft Foods, which now owns the brand, sells about 60 million boxes of it at Thanksgiving, a company spokeswoman said.
 Prepared in five minutes on the stove or in the microwave, Stove Top stuffing comes in a range of flavors, including turkey, chicken, beef, cornbread and sourdough. 
 Comforting or campy, Stove Top stuffing is an enduring emblem of postwar convenience culture. Its early advertising tag line, ''Stuffing instead of potatoes?'' remains in the collective consciousness.
 As Laura Shapiro, the author of ''Something From the Oven: Reinventing Dinner in 1950's America'' (Viking, 2004), said in a telephone interview yesterday:
 ''Stove Top made it possible to have the stuffing without the turkey, probably something no cook would ever have dreamed of but people eating Thanksgiving dinner might well have thought of: 'Take away everything else; just leave me here with the stuffing!' It's kind of like eating the chocolate chips without the cookies.''
 Stove Top's premise is threefold. First, it offers speed. 
 Second, it divorces the stuffing from the bird, sparing cooks the nasty business of having to root around in the clammy interior of an animal.
 Third, it frees stuffing from the yoke of Thanksgiving; it can be cooked and eaten on a moment's notice any day of the year.
 In 1975, General Foods was awarded United States Patent No. 3,870,803 for the product, generically called Instant Stuffing Mix. Ms. Siems is listed first among the inventors, followed by Anthony C. Capossela Jr., John F. Halligan and C. Robert Wyss.
 The secret lay in the crumb size. If the dried bread crumb is too small, adding water to it makes a soggy mass; too large, and the result is gravel. In other words, as the patent explains, ''The nature of the cell structure and overall texture of the dried bread crumb employed in this invention is of great importance if a stuffing which will hydrate in a matter of minutes to the proper texture and mouthfeel is to be prepared.''
 A member of the research and development staff at General Foods, Ms. Siems was instrumental, her sister Suzanne Porter said, in arriving at the precise crumb dimensions -- about the size of a pencil eraser.
 Ruth Miriam Siems was born in Evansville, Ind., on Feb. 20, 1931. She earned an undergraduate degree in home economics from Purdue University in 1953, and after graduation took a job at the General Foods plant in Evansville, where she worked on flours and cake mixes. She moved to the company's technical center in Tarrytown, N.Y., not long afterward. Ms. Siems retired in 1985.
 Besides Ms. Porter, of Copley, Ohio, Ms. Siems is survived by another sister, Rosemary Snyder, of Chicago; and a brother, David, of Milford, Mich.
 As a mark of just how deeply inscribed on the American palate Ms. Siems's stuffing has become, there are several recipes, available on the Internet, that promise to reproduce the taste of Stove Top from scratch, using fresh ingredients.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruth M. Siems

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); PATENTS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (72%)

TICKER: MDLZ (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



465 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Native Foods Nourish Again

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
LAST week, Noland Johnson pulled the season's final crop of tepary beans from the piece of desert he farms on the Tohono O'odham Reservation, about 120 miles southwest of Tucson.
 The beans look a little like a flattened black-eyed pea. The white ones cook up creamy. The brown ones, which Mr. Johnson prefers, are best simmered like pinto beans.
As late as the 1930's, Tohono O'odham farmers grew more than 1.5 million pounds a year and no one in the tribe had ever heard of diabetes. By the time Mr. Johnson got into the game four years ago, an elder would be lucky to find even a pound of the beans, and more than half of the adults in the tribe had the kind of diabetes attributed to poor diet.
 While researchers investigate the link between traditional desert foods and diabetes prevention, Mr. Johnson grows his beans, pulling down 14,000 pounds this fall. Most will sell for about $2.50 a pound at small stores on the reservation. 
 Mr. Johnson, 31, began farming beans partly as a tribute to his grandfather, who died from complications related to diabetes. He always saves some beans for his grandmother, who likes to simmer the white ones with oxtail.
 ''I see my grandmother telling her friends, 'Yeah, I can get some beans for you,' '' Mr. Johnson said. ''The elders, they're so glad to see it.''
 But there are other fans, too. Home cooks pay as much as $9.50 a pound for teparies online. Big-city chefs are in love with the little beans, too, turning them into cassoulet, salads or beds for braised local pork. 
 As American Indians try to reverse decades of physical and cultural erosion, they are turning to the food that once sustained them, and finding allies in the nation's culinary elite and marketing experts. 
 One result is the start of a new sort of native culinary canon that rejects oily fry bread but embraces wild rice from Minnesota, salmon from Alaska and the Northwest, persimmons and papaws from the Southeast, corn from New York, bison from the Great Plains and dozens of squashes, beans, berries and melons.
 Modern urban menus are beginning to feature three sisters soup, built from the classic Indian trilogy of beans, squash and corn. At the Mitsitam Cafe, opened last year in the National Museum of the American Indian in Washington, cooks create dishes with roasted salmon, chilies and buffalo meat.
 At the Cave B Inn, a resort a couple of hours' drive east of Seattle, Fernando Divina, the chef and a co-author of ''Food of the Americas: Native Recipes and Traditions,'' uses fresh corn dumplings, local beans, squash and Dungeness crab to augment a sophisticated menu meant to match wines from the resort's vineyards. Smoked whitefish chubs from Lake Superior and sassafras gelee ended up on the table at Savoy restaurant in Manhattan earlier this fall, and later this month pine-roasted venison with black currants and truffled hominy will star at a $100 indigenous foods dinner at the Equinox restaurant in Washington.
 Native foods encompass hundreds of different cultures. ''There's only now becoming a more pan-Indian sense of what Native food can be,'' said the author Louise Erdrich, whose mother was Ojibwa. She writes about tribal food in many of her books and is working on a cookbook with her sister, a pediatrician on the Turtle Mountain Reservation.
 ''You're talking about evolving a cuisine from a people whose cuisine has been whatever we could get for a long time,'' Ms. Erdrich said.
 American Indian food is the only ethnic cuisine in the nation that has yet to be addressed in the culinary world, said Loretta Barrett Oden, a chef who learned to cook growing up on the Citizen Potawatomi reservation in Oklahoma. 
 ''You can go to most any area of this country and eat Thai or Chinese or Mongolian barbecue, but you can't eat indigenous foods native to the Americas,'' said Ms. Oden, who has been traveling the nation filming segments for a 2006 PBS series titled ''Seasoned With Spirit: A Native Cook's Journey.''
 One item that won't be featured on her show is fry bread, the puffy circles of deep-fried dough that serve as a base for tacos or are eaten simply with sugar or honey and are beloved on Indian reservations. That bread is fast becoming a symbol of all that is wrong with the American Indian diet, which evolved from food that was hunted, grown or gathered to one that relied on federal government commodities, including white flour and lard -- the two ingredients in fry bread.
 In a small town on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota, the poorest and one of the largest reservations in the country, Larry Pourier, a film producer, is working on a healthier fast food. He is developing a snack bar based on a recipe for wasna, a patty Lakota elders used to fashion from the kidney fat and meat of bison mashed with chokecherries. Over the next couple of months he will add other dried fruits, grains and alternatives to the suet to make a modern snack bar that is high in protein and low in sugar. 
 ''I'm trying to keep it traditional, but in order for it to be successful it has to taste good,'' Mr. Pourier said. 
 Eventually, Mr. Pourier and his colleagues at Lakota Express, the economic development company behind the bar, want to manufacture an entire line under the brand Native American Natural Foods. The idea is that products from their tribe and others might be sold in special American Indian food sections, the way kosher, Mexican or Chinese products are grouped in many mainstream grocery stores.
 ''There are a lot of people trying to figure how to create a Native-based food product and having a real struggle to find market access, whether it's salmon or wild rice or teas or baked goods or corn chips, whatever,'' said Mark Tilsen, who helped to found Lakota Express. ''By trying to build a brand, we can provide some market access.''
 American Indians and Alaska Natives make up only about 1.5 percent of the nation's population, and those people are spread among almost 600 tribes. Even in the largest tribes, knowledge of how to forage and farm traditional food has faded.
 Efforts like the White Earth Land Recovery Project, which harvests and sells rice from the lakes in northern Minnesota, are helping to keep that knowledge alive. The project, run by Winona LaDuke, is part of an effort by food activists and chefs to save traditional American Indian foods and cooking methods.
 Mr. Johnson's tepary bean farm has its roots in Native Seeds/SEARCH, a Tucson-based organization that Gary Nabhan, a professor at Northern Arizona University, founded to preserve native plants in the Southwest and northwestern Mexico.
 Last year, Mr. Nabhan started RAFT, which stands for Renewing America's Food Traditions. The coalition of seven nonprofit food, agricultural and conservation organizations has published a ''red list'' of 700 endangered American foods, including heritage turkeys and Louisiana Creole cream cheese. 
 Several dozen items are tied directly to Indian tribes, including wild rice and the tepary, said Makale Faber, who tends the list as part of her work with Slow Food USA. 
 During the first week of December, members of the RAFT coalition, including the culinary organizations Slow Food and the Chefs Collaborative, will gather at the annual Tohono O'odham Community Action basket makers and food summit at the Heard Museum in Phoenix to discuss how to expand the list of endangered foods and figure out ways to nurture American Indian cuisine in the Southwest.
 People involved say the evolution won't work without chefs. 
 ''Having people at a high-end restaurant buy some of this makes it available for the rest of the community that it originally came from,'' said Patty West, a forager who works at the Northern Arizona University's Center for Sustainable Environments and is an organizer of the December food workshop. 
 John Sharpe, the chef at La Posada Hotel in Winslow, Ariz., devises as much of his menu as he can from local tribal foods. About four times a year, he is lucky enough to get a delivery of Navajo Churro lambs from a small, scrappy breed that was almost extinct. The animals are smaller than most commercial breeds and have very little fat. Mr. Sharpe, who has often paired chops from the lambs with tepary beans, will roast legs from four carcasses he received last week with wild local herbs, and serve them on his Thanksgiving buffet.
 He also borrows from Hopi traditions, turning tepary beans, roasted corn, a little French mustard and some olive oil into a dip that echoes a traditional Hopi dish. He uses thin Hopi piki bread, made from ground blue corn and cooked like a crepe, for dipping.
 ''Do the Hopis like it?'' asked Mr. Sharpe, who will be at the December workshop. ''They kind of laugh at it, but they love it. They say, 'This is a crazy white man who likes our food.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THE DESERT, HOPE GROWS -- For the Tohono O'odham Indians of southern Arizona, these tepary beans, grown by Noland Johnson on tribal farmland, symbolize a return to traditional foods and farming methods. (Photo by Chris Richards for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
ONE WITH THE LAND -- Noland Johnson, above, grows tepary beans, right, on land owned by the Tohono O'odham Indians in Arizona.
NEW FROM OLD -- On the Pine Ridge reservation, Larry Pourier, left, is developing a snack bar based on an old Lakota recipe. (Photographs by Chris Richards for The New York Times
below, Anne Hunter)(pg. F4)
ORIGINAL SUSTENANCE -- A bison herd at Oglala Lakota College, part of the Pine Ridge reservation in South Dakota.
AMERICAN BUFFET -- A cassoulet, above, served by John Sharpe, left, in Winslow, Ariz., features lamb grown by Navajo shepherds. (Photographs by Bartomeu Amengual for The New York Times
 far left, Anne Hunter)(pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (88%); RESTAURANTS (87%); MEATS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (70%); PORK (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%) 

PERSON: Kim Severson; Noland Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



466 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; THE POUR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: The Judgment of Paris, This Time at Home

BYLINE: By Eric Asimov

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
ANTICIPATION ran high as we took our places around two tables in the comfortable living room of Dwight M. Jaffee, a finance professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and Lynne LaMarca Heinrich, a fund-raising consultant. From bottles concealed in brown paper bags, Mr. Jaffee poured measures of red wine into the eight glasses arrayed before each of the 10 participants. Of the eight wines, we knew that four were Bordeaux and four California, all produced from 1975 to 1986, all donated by the participants. Our task was to taste the wines, to identify them as French or American, at least, and then to rank them in order of preference. 
 Daunting? Of course. Nothing is so humbling as a blind tasting. Experts swirl, sniff and opine, only to find that what they had so confidently pronounced a Margaux was in fact a Pauillac and what they had deemed a Pauillac was actually a Pommard. The blundering is part of the fun, and really, who can complain about the rare opportunity to taste fine aged wine? 
It wasn't nearly as much fun in Paris in 1976, the scene of the most famous tasting gotcha of all time. Back then, nine French judges, including some of the top names in the French wine and food establishment, were given 20 wines to taste blind, 10 white and 10 red. Of the whites, all made from the chardonnay grape, five were Burgundy and five California. The reds, all cabernet sauvignon or cabernet blends, were likewise divided between Bordeaux and California. 
 The rest, yes, is history. As has been retold countless times, most recently in George M. Taber's engrossing book ''Judgment of Paris: California vs. France and the Historic 1976 Paris Tasting That Revolutionized Wine'' (Scribner, 2005), the judges were thoroughly deluded by their conviction that only French wines were capable of rapturous effect. California's reputation for wine, as far as they were concerned, was somewhere south of Sicily. 
 ''Ah, back to France,'' one judge famously sighed after tasting a Napa Valley chardonnay, while another, sniffing a Batard-Montrachet, declared: ''That is definitely California. It has no nose.''
 When all was done, the consensus favorite wines were a 1973 chardonnay from Chateau Montelena and a 1973 cabernet sauvignon from Stag's Leap Wine Cellars, both in Napa Valley. Celebration among the Americans, consternation among the French, and for Mr. Taber, then a Time magazine reporter who was the only journalist to attend the tasting, a chance to record for posterity what might otherwise have been forgotten.
 Whether, as Mr. Taber asserts, the '76 tasting revolutionized wine is highly debatable. The economic, cultural and technological forces that have shaped the globalization of the wine industry were inexorable, regardless of the results of this particular tasting. 
 But nobody can dispute that the 1976 tasting gave instant credibility to a nascent California wine industry at a moment when California was poised to take advantage of it. It also packed an important promotional punch for those California wineries that did well, like Stag's Leap and Montelena, and gave Mike Grgich, the winemaker at Montelena, the opportunity to form his own winery, Grgich Hills, in partnership with Austin Hills.
 Beyond the effect on perception, the 1976 tasting provided a juicy competitive template for wine lovers around the world who, like my friends and me in Berkeley, have countless times imitated that famous tasting, no matter how vaguely. Our Berkeley tasting differed somewhat from the original. We did not taste whites, and our reds, rather than being of recent vintage, were 19 to 30 years old. 
 Nor were we fussy about trying to eliminate possible variations in storage or handling. One of our eight wines came from a magnum, the others from conventional bottles. 
 Good fun was the point, just as it was back in 1975, when Stephen Spurrier, then a wine merchant in Paris, conceived of the original event.
 Nonetheless, our results were fascinating and clear revenge for the French, who had originally complained that they were at a disadvantage because the young California wines were fruity and easy to enjoy while the austere young French wines required time to evolve. Our No. 1 wine was a Mouton-Rothschild 1975, followed by Grand-Puy-Lacoste 1982 and Haut-Brion 1981 (the magnum). Then came the Californians, Ridge Monte Bello 1978, Mayacamas 1984, Stag's Leap Wine Cellars 1986 and Dominus 1985. Trailing the pack was a light and mellow Mouton-Rothschild 1978. 
 Conventional wisdom has it that when wines are young, as in the 1976 tasting, differences of terroir are concealed, but as the wines age they become easier to discern. This no doubt was why I was able to identify correctly all eight wines as either French or American. The Bordeaux were marked by a characteristic cedary, tobacco-like, herbal bouquet, while the American wines still had aromas dominated by fruit. The only serious divergence of opinion that I had with the rest of the group was with the '81 Haut-Brion, which I felt was past its prime and had ranked sixth. I had the Ridge as No. 3.
 As much fun as the tasting was, framing it as a competition makes it easy to lose sight of the fact that most of these wines -- regardless of how they finished -- were superb and thoroughly absorbing. It was a privilege to taste each one. Ranking them tends to trivialize the enjoyment of great wines, though I suppose it serves a natural desire to order our experience. 
 I will further undercut the results by noting that three or four years ago I participated in another Paris-style taste-off between seven Bordeaux and seven California wines, mostly from the 1970 vintage. In the well-aged company of Bordeaux superstars like Petrus, Latour and La Mission Haut-Brion, California took the top three spots, led by a Gemello 1970 from the Santa Cruz Mountains, a wine that is both obscure and legendary. 
 At yet another re-creation of the '76 tasting this fall, led by John Kapon, president of Acker Merrall & Condit, a retail shop in Manhattan, a panel of experts and an audience tasted young wines, both white and red. Among the whites, the audience favored California chardonnays while the experts preferred white Burgundies. Both the audience and the experts chose red Bordeaux over California cabernets.
 Either way, no tasting will ever resound the way one so unexpectedly did in 1976. At parlor games like our Berkeley tasting, we commemorate the triumph of the unexpected. But regardless of the results, the Americans will always have Paris.


GRAPHIC: Photo: MAKING HISTORY -- Odette Kahn, Raymond Oliver and Jean-Claude Vrinat at the Paris tasting in 1976. (Photo by Bella Spurrier)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); JUDGES (71%); WRITERS (68%); JOURNALISM (63%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (50%) 

COMPANY: CHATEAU MONTELENA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (51%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (51%)

PERSON: Eric Asimov

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) California; France; Paris (France); Bordeaux (France)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



467 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: The Trade-Offs in Zoning Trade-Offs 

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

 BODY:
It has become common in New York City for real estate developers to offer public amenities in exchange for the right to put up buildings that are taller than the zoning ordinarily would allow or to garner public support for projects that might stir controversy. But those amenities -- parks, plazas or atriums, for example -- sometimes fail to live up to expectation, fall into disrepair and are occasionally scrapped altogether. 
 It was recently disclosed, for example, that the Forest City Ratner Companies will not open a rooftop park to the public -- as it originally announced -- as part of its proposed mixed-use development on Atlantic Avenue in downtown Brooklyn, which includes an arena for the New Jersey Nets basketball team, as well as 16 buildings. The omission of the park is a small change amid many others in this large-scale development, but it provided fodder for critics and renewed questions about relying on private developers to create public spaces. 
Since 1961, when the first density bonus was codified into city zoning law, public amenity trade-offs have proliferated. The Hearst Tower, under construction at Eighth Avenue and 57th Street, was granted a density bonus in exchange for making improvements to the Columbus Circle subway station. The Biltmore Theater on 47th Street was fully restored by the developer of a residential tower on that street. 
 But not all projects are regulated by the Department of City Planning, which normally would rule on such bonuses. Large-scale developments are increasingly under the regulatory authority of quasi-public agencies like the Empire State Development Corporation and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. And it is in this arena that the public amenity question becomes murky.
 The Forest City Ratner project would be built under the auspices of the Empire State Development Corporation, a state-chartered development agency that can supersede city zoning laws, said David Karnovsky, the counsel to the Planning Department. 
 ''The extent that the project will accommodate public space is to be determined by the Empire State Development Corporation,'' he said, ''and they have their process that is subject to public review, but it's not zoning.''
 Another project now under scrutiny is the new Yankee Stadium, which is to take over more than 22 acres of public parkland under an agreement made with the city but still subject to approval by the state. The Yankees have to replace the parkland acre for acre, but some advocates are voicing concern that the current proposal is inferior. 
 Micaela Birmingham, director of planning for the nonprofit organization New Yorkers for Parks, met recently with the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. ''One of the concerns that we expressed, and the Parks Department seems to agree, is that some of the replacement parkland is on two waterfront sites at a fair distance from the residential community,'' she said. People going there would go through a pedestrian tunnel under the Major Deegan Expressway. ''It's pretty unpleasant,'' she added. 
 Yet, there is no question that many public spaces would not be built at all if not for private developers. One proposal that will be unveiled in about a month is for a project for the Silvercup Studios in Long Island City; the plan has been two and a half years in the making. In exchange for a density bonus and a zoning change, the developer is proposing to build a park that will create public access to a section of the East River waterfront that has been off limits for more than a century. This project is going through the City Planning Department's approval process.
 The original law, which has evolved considerably since it was enacted and is being considered for further modification by Amanda M. Burden, the Planning Commission's chairwoman, merely stipulated that taller buildings could be built in exchange for providing public spaces, with minimal requirements. This led to a spate of wind-swept plazas that received minimal use or none at all. 
 Many were allowed to deteriorate, like the elevated public plaza at 55 Water Street, which recently reopened after a major renovation by the Retirement Systems of Alabama, the state pension fund that has owned the property since 1993. 
 Hailed as one of the best examples of a rehabilitated public space, it includes a lighted sculpture called the Beacon of Progress with four colors representing the seasons of the year that fade in and out continually.
 More common, however, are spaces that have been taken over for private purposes. For example, many spaces that were created for the public have been appropriated for cafe seating, a common violation of the density bonus that was publicized by Jerold Kayden, a professor of urban planning and design at the Harvard University Graduate School of Design, in his extensive study of public spaces created in New York City since 1961.
 Published in 2000 in conjunction with the Municipal Art Society, the study found that about half of all privately owned public spaces were not in compliance with the original agreements. 
 After the study was published, the city started enforcement procedures against a number of building owners, and Professor Kayden established a small nonprofit monitoring group called Advocates for Privately Owned Public Spaces, which is financed by the Municipal Art Society. The group keeps an updated database of more than 500 public spaces, but has neither the staff nor the resources to track public amenities built by private developers that are not regulated by city zoning laws.
 ''Some of these other agencies might look at the city Planning Department's experience'' to find ways to ensure that the public gets what has been promised, said Philip Schneider, project specialist for Advocates for Privately Owned Public Spaces. ''I'm not sure how you would do that with the Empire State Development Corporation. Write a letter to the governor?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The public plaza at 55 Water Street reopened after a renovation by its owner, an Alabama pension fund. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ZONING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); BASKETBALL (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CITIES (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (69%) 

COMPANY: RATNER COS (83%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (68%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (56%) Empire State Development Corp; Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Retirement Systems of Alabama

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (83%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



468 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: It's No Ploy: The Marlins Are Looking To Move On

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
SEVERAL years ago, when contraction was the hot topic in baseball, I figured I would help Bud Selig in his quest to eliminate two teams. At no expense to the commissioner, I offered what I called a modest proposal: lop Florida off the major league map. ''No one will miss it,'' I suggested.
 That was May 2001. Four and a half years later, I haven't changed my opinion. 
The Florida Marlins are on their third owner, and they have won two World Series in the last nine years. Yet they had the lowest average attendance in the National League last season, and they can't get a new park that would attract more fans in their heavily populated area. 
 The Tampa Bay Devil Rays have been a disaster throughout their eight-year history. Stuart Sternberg, the new owner, will try to clean up Vince Naimoli's mess, but he faces an arduous task. The Devil Rays had the lowest attendance -- average and total -- in the majors last season.
 The state that plays host to 18 teams for spring training drew fewer than 3 million fans for 162 major league games. Six teams attracted more than 3 million fans for 81 games each. Losing Florida's teams, then, would be no great loss.
 The only problem is that the collective-bargaining agreement bans contraction until at least the 2007 season, and there probably aren't two baseball-vacant cities left in the country that could successfully support major league teams.
 Florida and contraction became sudden topics yesterday when the Marlins revealed that Selig had given them permission to explore alternative homes. Selig, who was proud that baseball didn't have a team move from 1972 until this year, does not take that step lightly.
 He granted the Marlins' request only after Jeffrey Loria became the third owner of the team to fail in his quest to get a new park in South Florida. H. Wayne Huizenga and John Henry preceded Loria and were no more successful.
 Loria was in Europe yesterday when David Samson, the Marlins' president, disclosed the development at a news conference. He said in a subsequent telephone interview that Loria asked Selig for permission to look elsewhere after he and Samson returned from the owners' meeting in Milwaukee last week. Selig responded at the beginning of this week.
 Selig declined to comment yesterday after the Marlins' announcement, but he is known to be as disappointed and as frustrated as Loria with the team's inability to get financing for a new park. In several instances, the State Legislature refused to contribute $60 million or $30 million to the $435 million project. More recently, the city of Miami pulled out of a proposal for a park that would have been built next to the Orange Bowl. 
 ''There's no deal and we're out of time,'' Samson said, explaining that the team's lease at Dolphins Stadium expires after the 2010 season.
 ''Jeffrey spent $12 million designing a stadium near the Orange Bowl,'' Samson said. ''We thought we were going to get a deal and it didn't happen. Jeffrey spent tens of millions of dollars to rebuild this franchise. His contribution was over $200 million in annual rent and upfront payments for a new stadium. I don't know what more Jeffrey could do.''
 Bob DuPuy, Major League Baseball's president, said he has worked with the Marlins on getting a new park. ''Everyone is disappointed that we have not brought that to fruition,'' he said. ''The commissioner has been crystal clear that the Marlins cannot survive economically in that ball park.''
 Neither the Marlins nor baseball wants to leave South Florida, Samson and DuPuy said, but they have to face the economic realities.
 When a commissioner gives a team permission to explore other options, the first thought that comes to many people's minds is that the action is a bluff and a weapon to get local and state governments to come up with the funds needed for a new park. This situation doesn't seem to fit that scenario. 
 The Marlins' fan problem began after Huizenga decimated the 1997 championship team. That was the ideal time to push for a new park, but Huizenga squandered the opportunity. A supposedly sharp businessman, he didn't wait for the huge attendance boost a team usually gets the year after it wins a championship.
 Now Loria is left with a disinterested fan base and many millions of dollars in losses. The vultures, in the form of other cities, will come calling, offering to rescue him from his predicament.
 ''We already have heard; it didn't take long for word to get out,'' Samson said. One of the first calls came from Portland, Ore., a loser to Washington in the Expos sweepstakes. Las Vegas, too, will call. A Marlins executive visited Mayor Oscar Goodman in Las Vegas last December, triggering all sorts of speculation.
 Samson said yesterday that the executive, the vice chairman Joel Mael, was in Las Vegas on other business and stopped in to say hello. ''There was no relocation discussion at that meeting,'' Samson said. ''But I would think we would talk to them. We're just getting our breath today.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (65%); RELOCATIONS (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%) Baseball; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA MARLINS (91%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (83%) Florida Marlins

PERSON: Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



469 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: A Hint That Fed's Rate Increases May End Soon

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve offered its first hint on Tuesday that its long series of interest rate increases could be drawing to an end. Some analysts said the minutes confirmed that the Fed was closing in on a ''neutral'' rate that neither stokes inflation nor slows economic growth. 
 In minutes from the Fed's Nov. 1 meeting, which were released on Tuesday, policy makers said that they would soon have to change the advance guidance about rate increases that they have been providing since the spring of 2004. In that guidance, the Fed has consistently said that it would seek to raise the overnight federal funds rate at a ''measured'' pace -- which investors have understood to be a quarter-point increase at each policy meeting.
 According to the minutes, which are an edited summary of discussions at the Federal Open Market Committee, policy makers agreed that their statement about the outlook on rates ''would have to be changed before long.'' But officials also agreed that they could stick to their existing emphasis ''for this meeting.''
 That raised the possibility that policy makers would relax some of their implicit commitments to future rate increases before Alan Greenspan steps down as Fed chairman at the end of January. President Bush has nominated Ben S. Bernanke to succeed Mr. Greenspan, and the Senate Banking Committee unanimously voted for him last week. He is expected to win an easy approval by the full Senate in January.
 The newly released minutes stop well short of hinting at when the Fed will actually stop raising short-term rates. The central bank has raised the federal funds rate 12 times since June 2004, to 4 percent from 1 percent, and most investors now assume that it will raise the rate at least another two or three times.
 The minutes released on Tuesday do nothing to change that outlook, because policy makers said that they were still more worried about inflationary pressures than about slowing economic growth. 
 The conventional wisdom is that Mr. Bernanke will push through at least one more rate increase after he becomes chairman, if only to combat suspicions among investors that he is less determined than Mr. Greenspan about heading off inflation.
 But if Mr. Greenspan were to drop the Fed's code words about ''removing monetary policy accommodation at a pace that is likely to be measured,'' Mr. Bernanke might have a somewhat freer hand to chart his own course.
 Futures traders trimmed their bets that the Fed would push the overnight rate to 4.75 percent by April. The drop signals that traders see a 30 percent chance of an increase to 4.75 percent rate by April, down from 58 percent Monday, according to Bloomberg News.
 Some investors saw hints that the Fed might stop raising rates earlier than thought, because the November minutes noted that officials discussed the risks of ''going too far with the tightening process.'' But the overall tone of the minutes continued to stress worries about inflation. ''The upside risks to the outlook for underlying inflation remain a key concern,'' the minutes recounted. 
 William C. Dudley, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, predicted that the Fed might change its advance guidance on rate increases by January. Even so, he added, the Fed is likely to push short-term rates all the way to 5 percent before stopping.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); APPROVALS (69%) 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%) Hollinger International Inc; Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Conrad M Black; John A Boultbee; Peter Atkinson; Mark Kipnis; Ben S Bernanke; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



470 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: One Night in 1970, the Revolution Was Televised 

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
There was a time before ''Monday Night Football,'' but that was an eon ago, when prime-time sports were rare and CBS and NBC carried the only professional football they believed they ever needed, on Sunday afternoons.
 But on a sultry Monday evening in Cleveland, Sept. 21, 1970, when the Browns played the Jets, that television equation was rewritten forever with the first game in a 35-year run on ABC that will end with the Super Bowl on Feb. 5.
The series that brought viewers Howard Cosell, Don Meredith and 13 other announcers in the booth, including the current tandem of John Madden and Al Michaels, will move, for economic reasons, from the once dominant but now drastically downsized ABC Sports to ESPN, its powerful cable sibling in the Walt Disney Company with a smaller universe of viewers. 
 On that evening in Cleveland, no one had the foresight to know if prime-time football would work, let alone endure on a single network over four decades. And no one, of course, knew that what cost ABC $8.5 million that first season would soar to a price of $550 million annually for the network, or to the $1.1 billion ESPN will pay next year. 
 The first words of the New Football Order were provided by ABC's Keith Jackson: ''From Municipal Stadium in Cleveland, Ohio, two powers in professional football meet for the first time ever as members of the new American Football Conference of the National Football League.''
 There was not a scripted opening tease or a rowdy Hank Williams Jr. song. The risk then was whether anybody would be ready for some football at 9 p.m. Eastern, even if ABC had proved in 1968 that sports fans would watch the Summer Olympics after dusk. But this was Jets-Browns on a third-place network -- in a three-network universe -- gambling on the future.
 There on the field was Cosell, in a maroon ABC blazer, his right hand trembling, as he interviewed Joe Namath and his Jets co-captain, Al Atkinson. He chatted on one side of a split screen, with Jackson, and then with Meredith, the former Dallas Cowboy, who looked abashed to be introduced in his new TV career with a reel of his old quarterback sacks. 
 ''Dan-dee Don Meredith,'' Cosell said, ''how does it feel to review the glories of yesteryear?''
 Meredith dabbed his perspiring forehead with a handkerchief. As Cosell, on the left side of the screen, chuckled, Meredith said: ''I didn't know y'all were going to do that. Nobody told me that. I was all set to tell you about these two quarterbacks, and I'm going to do it anyway.''
 This was to be the new paradigm of sportscasting, not the game-in-a-cathedral model of CBS and NBC, but up-close, camera-rich, three-in-the-booth entertainment. It starred Jackson, who was more comfortable in the college game; Meredith, a TV naif; and Cosell, the controversial and adenoidal voice renowned for his commentary and boxing, but not for football.
 All those years and a few billion dollars later, the creative and viewership legacy of ''Monday Night Football'' is secure, despite occasional troughs in its allure and the quality of its production. The current production crew is trying to fend off separation anxiety and end the season with a flourish. Michaels will move with the games to ESPN, while Madden will go to NBC to call Sunday night games.
 The day before the Dallas-Philadelphia game on Nov. 14, Fred Gaudelli, the producer of ''Monday Night Football,'' said: ''We want to be proud of the last thing we did. We don't want anyone to say we're mailing it in.''
 If it seems as if ABC has carried ''Monday Night'' for an eternity, the truth is the network nearly did not get it. CBS and NBC spurned it. So did ABC. But Pete Rozelle, the N.F.L. commissioner, persuaded ABC that he would make a deal with the Hughes Sports Network to syndicate the games to stations throughout the country, including many of ABC's.
 ''It was only through blackmailing ABC'' that the network agreed, said Don Ohlmeyer, who joined the game's production crew in its second season and would twice be its lead producer. (In the second go-round, he hired the comedian Dennis Miller to work in the booth.) 
 ''That was an inducement to carry 'Monday Night Football' -- or for the network to go dark that night,'' Ohlmeyer added. 
 Some of the negotiations between Rozelle and Roone Arledge, the president of ABC Sports, took place, seated side-by-side, in a banquette at the 21 Club, often in late afternoons when the restaurant was mostly empty. 
 ''I was doing high-end errands, and once I brought Roone research to 21 as he made points to Pete,'' said Dick Ebersol, then an ABC production associate, now the chairman of NBC Universal Sports.
 In the contract, the league promised that ABC's schedule would feature the ''key games insofar as our scheduling judgment can provide,'' Rozelle wrote to Arledge on May 29, 1969. All the games, Rozelle wrote, would be blacked out ''at our election'' in the teams' home markets and games that were played in New York were to be avoided.
 The reaction inside ABC Sports to the acquisition of ''Monday Night'' was ''elation, shock and pride,'' said Dennis Lewin, who was in charge of the replay and isolation production truck that first season. ''We were doing the N.B.A., every major event in amateur athletics, because we'd helped make them big during the Olympics and 'Wide World of Sports,' and we were No. 1 in college football. But we thought of this as putting us over the top.''
 The game in Cleveland offered clues to how ''Monday Night'' would change the way football was televised, even if the revolution looks modest when compared to today's high-tech wizardry. In its day, the use of nine cameras (versus a standard four or five) to get closer to the action, hand-held cameras for sideline close-ups and reaction shots, split-screen and end zone replays, and Cosell's halftime highlights constituted a visual revelation.
 There were no sideline reporters, constant score boxes or Telestrators, commonplace elements of today's broadcasts, and there were only hints of the chemistry that would develop between Cosell and Meredith. Cosell referred regularly to Dandy Don, but Meredith sounded tentative. The division of labor was clear: Jackson gave the basics (Frank Gifford replaced Jackson the next season), Cosell commented when plays ended and Meredith spoke during replays. Sometimes he went a full series without speaking.
 One slightly ribald comment by Meredith gave a glimpse into the charismatic, country-fried personality that played off Cosell so well.
 ''Isn't Fair Hooker a great name?'' Meredith said, referring to the Cleveland receiver.
 ''I pass,'' Cosell said.
 After an interference call, Meredith stumbled but recovered with self-effacing candor. ''Now that didn't sound real right,'' he said. ''We're going to try that again later on, folks. You're not supposed to do it. I know that.''
 The Cosellian sound was abundant, especially during his halftime narration; so were opinions that made each team's fans believe he was their enemy. Cosell and Meredith engaged in only one exchange that would come to define the banter that underscored their partnership.
 ''They're controlling the ball,'' Cosell said during a Jets drive during the second half. ''That means Cleveland can't score.'' 
 ''Good point,'' Meredith said, puncturing a Cosell banality with two words.
 The game's artistic peak was a perfectly framed live shot that Chet Forte, the producer-director, held for seven seconds: a shocked Namath, his shoulders slumped, arms akimbo, after an interception was returned for a game-deciding touchdown. 
 The image was replayed again, for 30 more seconds, as time ran out on Cleveland's 31-21 victory and Jackson promoted the next week's game -- the second Monday in what will be 555 Mondays when ABC's final regular-season game ends on Dec. 26.

Monday Night Lights
 Articles in this series examine how ABC's ''Monday Night Football'' changed the way television covers the National Football League.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jack Gregory and Ron Snidow (88) of Cleveland pursued the Jets' Joe Namath during the first ''Monday Night Football'' game on Sept. 21, 1970. (Photo by Associated Press)
 A split screen with Howard Cosell, left, and Don Meredith. (Photo by National Football League)(pg. D3)Drawing (Drawing by Bob Kessel)(pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS FANS (73%); OLYMPICS (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%) Football; Television

COMPANY: ABC INC (91%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%); ABC SPORTS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (82%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (58%) Abc Inc 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%)

PERSON: Richard Sandomir

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



471 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Brooklyn: Mayor Unveils Housing Program 

BYLINE: By Winnie Hu (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Low-income housing will be created from 360 foreclosed properties under a new program announced yesterday by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Housing Secretary Alphonso Jackson. The city and nonprofit developers will buy dilapidated homes from the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development at a steep discount, renovate them and then sell them to families at prices below market value. Families will be chosen by a lottery, with preference given to military veterans who have served on active duty since Sept. 11, 2001, and to nearby residents of the property being restored. The program will start with $15 million in city money and $130 million in private investments, and will be financed through the sales of the properties. Winnie Hu (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (93%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (91%); CITIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); FORECLOSURE (88%); BUILDING RENOVATION (87%); ARMED FORCES (83%); VETERANS (53%) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (58%) Housing and Urban Development Department (Hud)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); ALPHONSO JACKSON (73%) Winnie Hu; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



472 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Unexpected Rise in Tax Revenue Cuts City's Budget Gap in Half

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
A continued gusher of tax revenue, largely driven by a superheated real estate market, prompted the Bloomberg administration yesterday to reduce its estimate for next year's budget deficit by half, to $2.3 billion. 
 The city now expects to collect $3.4 billion more in taxes this fiscal year, mostly on real estate transactions, personal income and business profits, than was anticipated when the city's $50 billion budget was adopted in June, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's office said. Separately, the city also expects that changes to the formulas it uses to make contributions to workers' pensions could allow it to save additional hundreds of millions of dollars next year.
The cheery fiscal news was leavened, however, with a warning that real estate taxes are not expected to remain as high as they have been, partly because higher mortgage rates will probably dampen the pace of sales and refinancings, which fuel things like mortgage recording taxes. ''The city, along with most forecasters, has been forecasting that these real estate transaction taxes would begin to decline for some time,'' the mayor's office said in a statement, ''and we continue to forecast that these taxes will begin to decline in the next calendar year.''
 The administration said the unexpected increase in taxes related to real estate would total $737 million this fiscal year, which ends in June. As for the next fiscal year, it said the rate of increase would probably slow to a virtual trickle, to $66 million above what had been forecast.
 In addition to changing fortunes in the real estate market, a recent city report on the local economy suggested that the outlook for the job market was also becoming cloudy. It showed that while jobs in the high-paying securities industry grew in October, the total number of jobs in New York dropped by 11,000, the largest one-month decline since 2003. If that trend continues, it could reduce personal income taxes in the future.
 Still, the surge in taxes should make it easier for Mr. Bloomberg to balance next year's budget, even while he uses some of the extra money to pay for unexpected spending increases. Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor, said yesterday that the city planned to use $1.2 billion of the additional tax revenue to cover the cost of labor contracts and higher energy prices.
 Details of the revised tax forecast were included in a report the city filed with the state's Financial Control Board. It showed that even with the additional revenue, the administration expected budget deficits of $4 billion and $3.5 billion in the 2008 and 2009 fiscal years, respectively.
 Doug Turetsky, a spokesman for the city's Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan fiscal watchdog, said that while he was not surprised the city was collecting more tax revenue, the size of the influx was unexpected. ''The real estate transaction taxes, in particular, greatly outpaced what we anticipated,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); BUDGETS (92%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Mike Mcintire

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005



473 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Sometimes, a Tax Cut for the Wealthy Can Hurt the Wealthy

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank. 
Robert H. Frank has taught introductory economics at Cornell University since 1972. He is co-author, with Ben S. Bernanke, of ''Principles of Microeconomics.''

 BODY:
WHEN market forces cause income inequality to grow, public policy in most countries tends to push in the opposite direction. In the United States, however, we enact tax cuts for the wealthy and cut public services for the needy. Cynics explain this curious inversion by saying that the wealthy have captured the political process in Washington and are exploiting it to their own advantage. 
 This explanation makes sense, however, only if those in power have an extremely naive understanding of their own interests. A careful reading of the evidence suggests that even the wealthy have been made worse off, on balance, by recent tax cuts. The private benefits of these cuts have been much smaller, and their indirect costs much larger, than many recipients appear to have anticipated. 
On the benefit side, tax cuts have led the wealthy to buy larger houses, in the seemingly plausible expectation that doing so would make them happier. As economists increasingly recognize, however, well-being depends less on how much people consume in absolute terms than on the social context in which consumption occurs. Compelling evidence suggests that for the wealthy in particular, when everyone's house grows larger, the primary effect is merely to redefine what qualifies as an acceptable dwelling. 
 So, although the recent tax cuts have enabled the wealthy to buy more and bigger things, these purchases appear to have had little impact. As the economist Richard Layard has written, ''In a poor country, a man proves to his wife that he loves her by giving her a rose, but in a rich country, he must give a dozen roses.'' 
 On the cost side of the ledger, the federal budget deficits created by the recent tax cuts have had serious consequences, even for the wealthy. These deficits will exceed $300 billion for each of the next six years, according to projections by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. The most widely reported consequences of the deficits have been cuts in government programs that serve the nation's poorest families. And since the wealthy are well represented in our political system, their favored programs may seem safe from the budget ax. Wealthy families have further insulated themselves by living in gated communities and sending their children to private schools. Yet such steps go only so far.
 For example, deficits have led to cuts in federal financing for basic scientific research, even as the United States' share of global patents granted continues to decline. Such cuts threaten the very basis of our long-term economic prosperity. As Senator Pete Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, said: ''We thought we'd keep the high-end jobs, and others would take the low-end jobs. We're now on track to a second-rate economy and a second-rate country.''
 Large deficits also threaten our public health. Thus, despite the increasing threat from micro-organisms like E. coli 0157, the government inspects beef processing plants at only a quarter the rate it did in the early 1980's. Poor people have died from eating contaminated beef but so have rich people. 
 Citing revenue shortfalls, the nation postpones maintenance of its streets and highways, even though doing so means having to spend two to five times as much on repairs in the long run. In the short run, bad roads cause thousands of accidents each year, many of them fatal. Poor people die in these accidents but so do rich people. When a pothole destroys a tire and wheel, replacements cost only $63 for a Ford Escort but $1,569 for a Porsche 911.
 Deficits have also compromised the nation's security. In 2004, for example, the Bush administration reduced financing for the Energy Department's program to secure loosely guarded nuclear stockpiles in the former Soviet Union by 8 percent. Sam Nunn, the former United States senator, now heads a private foundation whose mission is to raise private donations to expedite this effort. And despite the rational fear that terrorists may try to detonate a nuclear bomb in an American city, most cargo containers continue to enter the nation's ports without inspection.
 Large federal budget deficits and low household savings rates have also forced our government to borrow more than $650 billion each year, primarily from China, Japan and South Korea. These loans must be repaid in full, with interest. The resulting financial burden, plus the risks associated with increased international monetary instability, fall disproportionately on the rich. 
 At the president's behest, Congress has already enacted tax cuts that will result in some $2 trillion in revenue losses by 2010. According to one recent estimate, 52.5 percent of these cuts will have gone to the top 5 percent of earners by the time the enabling legislation is fully phased in. Republicans in Congress are now calling for an additional $69 billion in tax cuts aimed largely at high-income families. 
 With the economy already at full employment, no one pretends these cuts are needed to stimulate spending. Nor is there any evidence that further cuts would summon outpourings of additional effort and risk taking. Nor, finally, does anyone deny that further cuts would increase the already high costs associated with larger federal budget deficits. 
 Moralists often urge the wealthy to imagine how easily their lives could have turned out differently, to adopt a more forgiving posture toward those less prosperous. But top earners might also wish to consider evidence that their own families would have been better off, in purely practical terms, had it not been for the tax cuts of recent years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); EVIDENCE (70%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (68%); CHILDREN (66%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%); PATENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



474 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Peru: No Progress in Trade Talks

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The United States and Peru failed to reach an agreement to remove barriers to trade and investment, bringing talks on a broad free trade agreement to a close without a breakthrough, trade officials said. Talks with Colombia and Ecuador ended Tuesday, and negotiators for each government said they pulled out of the discussions because they could not accept American demands that they stiffen patent protections and allow more farm imports from the United States. ''This seems likely to delay a signing, but I doubt it ends prospects for an agreement,'' said Peter Hakim, president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a research center based in Washington. The Bush administration is trying to lower trade and investment barriers to improve the economies of Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia to halt the cultivation of coca, the main ingredient in cocaine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); COCAINE (65%); PATENTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); PERU (94%); COLOMBIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



475 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-21

Russia Seeks Control Over Private Charities
Russia moved to impose greater government control over charities and other private organizations, including some of the world's most prominent, in what critics described as the Kremlin's latest effort to stifle civil society and democracy. A1

Pentagon Plans Iraq Troop Cuts 

The Pentagon plans to make modest troop reductions after next month's elections in Iraq and, if security conditions improve, could begin cuts that would drop the American force level below 100,000, Defense Department officials said. A14

The Iraqi court trying Saddam Hussein and seven others has reached an agreement with defense lawyers to end the boycott they declared after two on their team were shot and killed in the past month, an American official said. A14

Web Logs Test Chinese Censors
Chinese Web logs have existed for years, but the form has exploded in recent months, giving flesh to the kind of free-spoken civil society whose emergence the government is determined to prevent. A1

A Pollution Threat in China
A chemical plant explosion earlier this month near Harbin, China, prompted the government to cut potentially contaminated supplies of fresh water to the city, highlighting the threat that industrial pollution poses to public health and economic development across the nation. A6

Israel Clashes With Hezbollah
Israeli troops and Hezbollah fighters clashed for the second time in three days after an apparently errant Israeli hang glider crossed the Lebanese border and landed near the border town of Meiss el Jabal, Israeli officials and Hezbollah reported. A16

Pinochet Arrested in Chile
Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former military dictator of Chile, was arrested in Santiago on tax fraud and passport forgery charges arising from secret bank accounts holding millions of dollars that he maintained under false names. A8

NATIONAL A22-30

Padilla Charges Avoid Testimony From Al Qaeda
The Bush administration's decision to charge Jose Padilla with less serious crimes was based on its unwillingness to allow testimony from two members of Al Qaeda who were the main sources of information linking Mr. Padilla to a plot to bomb targets in the United States. A1

Vatican Policy Upsets Priests
Some priests say they are shocked by a clause in the new Vatican directive that deters most gay men from joining the priesthood. The clause says that spiritual directors and confessors ''have the duty to dissuade'' any candidates ''who show deep-seated homosexual tendencies'' from becoming priests. A1

Judge Upholds Education Law
A federal judge in Michigan dismissed a major challenge to the Bush administration's signature education program, No Child Left Behind, saying the federal government has the right to require states to spend their own money to comply with the law. A22

Fire Razes Atlanta Apartments
Nearly 60 people were left homeless when fire devoured their apartment building east of downtown Atlanta. Residents of the Bedford Pines apartments in Atlanta's Old Fourth Ward neighborhood stood outside in the chill wind, crying and hugging each other while they watched a four-alarm fire destroy everything they owned. A29

Holiday Travel Rush Eases
The anxiety-filled rituals of Thanksgiving eve -- traffic, waiting for hours at an airport lounge, crowded trains -- seemed to ease slightly this year, so much so that aviation and highway experts predicted that the day before Thanksgiving may no longer be the busiest travel day of the year. A29

Photographs Made of Bacteria
Scientists have created living photographs made of bacteria, genetically engineering the microbes so that a thin sheet of them growing in a dish can capture and display an image. The achievement highlights the potential of an emerging field called synthetic biology. A30

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

Pakistani Man Convicted Of Aiding Al Qaeda
A federal jury in Manhattan convicted Uzair Paracha, a young Pakistani man, of five counts of conspiring to help an operative for Al Qaeda accused of planning bombing attacks in Maryland enter the United States. He faces up to 75 years in prison. B1

Codey Rules Out Senate Bid
Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey of New Jersey announced that he had withdrawn his name from consideration to succeed Jon S. Corzine, the governor-elect, in the United States Senate, just a day after polls showed Mr. Codey with an overwhelming approval rating among the state's voters. B1

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-6

Mets to Sign Delgado
The Mets reached a tentative agreement to acquire Carlos Delgado from the Florida Marlins. The deal is not yet official. D1

HOUSE & HOME F1-10

Guide to Rebuilding on the Gulf
The Commission on Recovery, Rebuilding, and Renewal organized by Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi plans to distribute a book to Gulf Coast residents designed to guide rebuilding efforts along strictly traditional lines. F1

THURSDAY STYLES G1-14

OBITUARIES A31

ARTS E1-20

Met May Settle With Italy
Italy's culture ministry and the Metropolitan Museum of Art have mapped out a potential solution to Italy's claims to antiquities in the museum's collection, officials said. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Morgan Stanley's Moves
Morgan Stanley severed ties with three former executives who were forced to leave the firm during an earlier management shakeup and who some had thought might return. The company's current chief, John J. Mack, has also stepped up his search to acquire a hedge fund. C1

Drug Plan Deadline Looms
The clock is ticking for millions of elderly and disabled people, who must decide whether and when to enroll in one of the new Medicare Part D drug plans that start Jan. 1, 2006. C1

Former Broker Charged
Federal prosecutors have charged a former securities broker, David Pajcin, with insider trading related to information that the authorities said he gleaned by illegally obtaining advance copies of Business Week and buying stocks that the magazine was covering favorably. C3

Oil Companies vs. Yemen
Two American oil companies, Hunt Oil and Exxon, filed arbitration proceedings this week against the government of Yemen for expropriating an oil-producing block with output worth more than $1 billion a year. C10

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A32-33

Editorials: Iraqis getting together; this one meal; the Katrina housing debacle; TV beyond the tried and true.

Column: David Brooks.

Bridge E15
TV Listings E19
Crossword E16
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); TERRORISM (88%); HEZBOLLAH (86%); EDUCATION LAW (84%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); JUDGES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); TAX FRAUD (74%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (73%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (72%); TAX LAW (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); ARRESTS (69%); COUNTERFEITING (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%); ARMED FORCES (65%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (62%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (62%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); CHILE (92%); CHINA (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



476 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 812 words

 BODY:

Morgan Stanley Chief Executive Said to Be Looking at Hedge Fund Deal
Five months into his term as chief executive of Morgan Stanley, John J. Mack is stepping up efforts to add businesses and possibly bolster his management team. Yesterday, Morgan Stanley severed ties with three former executives who were forced to leave the firm by Philip J. Purcell during his management shake-up earlier this year. While making such a break with executives whom some had hoped might return, Mr. Mack has stepped up his search to acquire a hedge fund. Within the last month, he offered to buy FrontPoint Partners, a hedge fund manager with more than $5 billion in assets, according to people who were briefed on the discussions. [Page C1.] 


Deadline Nears for Medicare Drug Decision
The clock is ticking for millions of elderly and disabled people who must decide whether and when to enroll in one of the Medicare Part D drug plans that start Jan. 1. [C1.]

Pinochet Is Arrested in Case Tied to Bank Accounts
Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former military dictator of Chile, was arrested on tax fraud and passport forgery charges arising from secret bank accounts holding millions of dollars that he maintained under false names in the United States and elsewhere. [A8.]

Congestion Eases on Day Before Thanksgiving
The anxious rituals of Thanksgiving eve -- driving in bumper-to-bumper traffic, waiting for hours at the airport, boarding a train with no empty seats -- seemed to ease slightly this year, so much so that the day before Thanksgiving may be ceding its claim as the busiest travel day of the year. [A29.]

The much-maligned Transportation Security Administration has been hiring industrial engineers and other efficiency experts to iron out the many kinks in its rapidly assembled operations. But that is little guarantee that wait times at airport checkpoints will shorten this Thanksgiving. [C3.]

Former Broker Charged With Insider Trading
Federal prosecutors have charged a former securities broker, David Pajcin, with insider trading related to information the authorities said he gleaned by illegally obtaining advance copies of BusinessWeek and buying stocks that the magazine was covering favorably. [C3.]

Threat of Industrial Pollution in China
The Chinese government's decision to cut potentially contaminated supplies of fresh water to the city of Harbin in the northeast has highlighted the threat that industrial pollution poses to public health and economic development across the nation. [A6.]

In Germany, an Auto Parts Maker Thrives
A relentless focus on costs has turned Continental, an auto parts maker, into a quiet star of German industry. While Delphi and its biggest customer, General Motors, are struggling to stave off financial ruin in the United States, Continental's profit is surging and its stock is hitting all-time highs. ''There's a cost burden that no one can manage away,'' Manfred Wennemer, above, the chief of Continental, said in an interview. ''The United States has to find a way to solve that.'' [C1.]

U.S. Oil Companies Take Action Against Yemen
Two United States oil companies, taking an uncommon tack, have filed arbitration proceedings against the government of Yemen for expropriating an oil-producing block with output of more than $1 billion a year. [C10.]

Arcelor Makes Hostile Bid for Canadian Steelmaker
In a bid to supply steel to North American auto plants, Luxembourg's Arcelor began a 4.3 billion Canadian dollar ($3.66 billion) hostile bid for Dofasco, a large Canadian steelmaker. [C10.]

Europe to Seek Ways to Prevent Obesity
Europe's food industry and consumer groups are to submit ideas to the European Union on how to confront obesity, urging clear labeling of nutritional hazards and warning against aggressive marketing to children, but also allowing food producers to regulate themselves. [C5.]

Stocks Rise on Consumer Confidence Data
Better-than-expected consumer confidence numbers and a drop in oil prices sent stocks higher. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 44.66 points, to 10,916.09. The Standard & Poor's 500 added 4.38 points, to 1,265.61, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 6.42 points, to 2,259.98. [C10.]

BlackBerry Maker Lowers Subscriber Forecast
Research in Motion, maker of the BlackBerry phones and pagers, lowered its forecast for new subscribers as product releases are delayed and a lawsuit threatens to shut its service. [C16.]

Son of Adelphia Founder Enters Guilty Plea
Michael J. Rigas, a son of the founder of Adelphia Communications, pleaded guilty to a charge of making a false entry in a company record, eliminating the need for his retrial on much more serious charges. [C9.]

Searching for CD Burners With Extra Sizzle
As laptop sales continue to outpace desktop PC sales, manufacturers of aftermarket CD burners hope to see their products become more desirable alternatives to built-in burners. Circuits. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Morgan Stanley stock closes since September, 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); MEDICARE (88%); INSIDER TRADING (87%); THANKSGIVING (87%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (85%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); ARRESTS (72%); COUNTERFEITING (71%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (71%); TAX FRAUD (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); AVIATION SECURITY (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (89%); MANFRED WENNEMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST CHINA (66%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (56%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); CHILE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



477 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Declining Fuel Prices Help Lift Consumer Sentiment This Month

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Falling fuel prices lifted consumer sentiment in the United States this month, brightening the outlook for the holiday shopping season. 
 The University of Michigan said yesterday that its index of consumer sentiment increased to 81.6 during the month, from 74.2 in October. Forecasters had expected a reading a 81. The gauge of expectations, which tends to foreshadow changes in consumer spending, also rose.
 Retail industry groups raised holiday sales forecasts this week as gasoline prices have fallen by almost a third from the record reached in September after Hurricane Katrina. 
 In another report, the Labor Department said yesterday that the number of Americans filing first-time jobless claims last week rose by 30,000, to 335,000, which was more than forecast, suggesting that the Veterans Day holiday may have helped push filings to a four-month low a week earlier.
 Claims have averaged 323,000 this month compared with 351,000 in October, a decline that suggests companies are dismissing fewer workers, economists said.
 ''It's apparent that the Labor Department had some problems seasonally adjusting for the Veterans Day holiday,'' said Ted Wieseman, an economist at Morgan Stanley in New York.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph shows unemployment numbers since June, 2005.(Source by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (94%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (54%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Labor; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%) University of Michigan; Labor Department (US)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



478 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: The Long Wait for the Chance to Empty Pockets and Shed Shoes 

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY and JEREMY W. PETERS; Jeff Bailey reported from Chicago for this article and Jeremy W. Peters from Romulus, Mich.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
With a record 21.7 million people expected to fill airports over the 11-day Thanksgiving travel period, this would seem to be the time for the much-maligned Transportation Security Administration and its 45,000 airport security screeners to shine.
 And indeed, the four-year-old agency has been hiring industrial engineers and other efficiency experts to iron out the many kinks in its rapidly assembled operations. It is upgrading slow and balky equipment and trying to make its work force more productive.
But that is little guarantee that wait times at airport security checkpoints will shorten. If recent history is any guide, travelers Wednesday endured standing in line for 30 minutes or more at a handful of major airports. Some waits during the Thanksgiving week of travel, which is expected to be the busiest ever, could reach a full hour.
 The Transportation Security Administration, or T.S.A. -- which many of the more cynical travelers say stands for Thousands Standing Around -- said it was working hard to be more efficient. But beyond security, its stated goal is hardly challenging: keep the average waiting time under 10 minutes. It so happens that current waiting times are that already. If the agency has a goal of actually reducing waiting times, it won't tell that to the public. 
 ''It's to the point where they could do things to speed it up,'' said Charles Whitlock, lining up for screening at bustling-but-not-yet-bottlenecked Detroit Metropolitan Airport Wednesday morning before a flight home to Charlotte, N.C., to join his wife for Thanksgiving. 
 A business traveler who delivers trucks all over the country and then flies home, Mr. Whitlock, 37, reluctantly arrives an extra 30 minutes early to have his big toolbox searched and often tested for bomb residue. He changes out of truck-driving boots, into sneakers he would not otherwise pack, to clear security. ''It's kind of a pain,'' he said.
 For travelers, the agency's recent upgrades do not begin to match the contortions they must endure: unpack and partly disrobe; fling their possessions into gray trays and then onto the conveyer; step back and -- er, please -- step through again with boarding pass in hand; gather everything up and put it back where it belongs; hustle off to the gate wondering what they left behind.
 Travelers have adjusted in other ways. The day before Thanksgiving, known in the industry as Black Wednesday, has long been pegged as the year's busiest travel day. And so people try to avoid it. ''It's like Yogi Berra said, 'the restaurant's so crowded nobody goes there anymore,' '' said John Heimlich, chief economist for the Air Transport Association. 
 This year, Black Wednesday is projected to be only the third-busiest day of the period, with 2.2 million people flying. This Sunday, when people head home, is expected to be the busiest day, with 2.4 million passengers, with next Monday ranking second, slightly below Sunday's number. 
 American Airlines and United Airlines, the nation's two largest, each said their flights during parts of this week would be more than 90 percent full. Southwest Airlines shifted planes to busier markets like Dallas, Philadelphia and Chicago. ''They will be very full flights,'' said Emily Jones, a Southwest manager for maximizing revenue. Airports in Denver and Dallas added parking spaces to handle the crush. And many airport Web sites offer tips on limiting wait times.
 That puts the spotlight on the Transportation Security Administration, which was born in the days after Sept. 11 to safeguard airports from terrorists. After much criticism, it is slowly embracing a customer service element in its mission. 
 ''When we started we had more of a military thing,'' said Lori Potoczek, an agency screening supervisor at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. ''Now we need to be more businesslike.''
 Ms. Potoczek, 36, joined the agency three years ago and oversees five lanes of screeners in the American Airlines terminal. She will be working Thursday, she said, putting off her usual Thanksgiving for 25 family members, including the eight dozen pirogies she will serve, until Friday.
 Her checkpoint was just remodeled, pushing a Chili's restaurant aside to make room for 48-inch screening lanes, which allow faster passengers to scrunch past stragglers, as opposed to the former 36-inch lanes, which often became bottlenecked. The hardest part, she said, is ''trying to smile.''
 The agency's 10-minute goal is easily met, given all the slack hours during the year with few passengers and short waiting times that compensate for these busy periods. Beyond that, the agency will not provide information on how many people it can send through a screening lane per hour, nor historical data on wait times, said a spokeswoman, Lara Uselding.
 The screening drill, second nature to business travel, takes considerably longer to get through in most airports this week. Headed to Orlando to spend the holiday with relatives, Jim and Jeanie Kaercher, who own a trout farm in Dexter, Mich., approach screening in Detroit with only the essential carry-ons. No sippee cup for their 3-year-old son. No toys for their 7-year-old daughter. Fashion compromises were negotiated at home, Ms. Kaercher said. ''If they have lights on their shoes, they have to take them off.''
 If the screening process seems no faster, it does seem at least less confrontational these days -- less like being pulled over by a police officer, for the agency preaches kindness to its workers. Lauren Alcarese, who manages a 50-worker team that moves around to the baggage or passenger screening areas that are busiest at O'Hare, reads Eastern philosophy in her off-hours and has learned to be stoic about angry fliers. ''It's O.K. to accept it and allow people to blow off,'' she said. ''I've had passengers who were abusive to the point of having to call the police. And I found out they'd just lost a father.''
 Richard Larson, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and queuing expert, said sour handlers can increase anxiety among those in line, making the wait seem even longer. Traveling recently, he said, ''they seem to be much more friendly now.''
 At O'Hare, in addition to widening screening lanes, the agency's local industrial engineer, Bill Stover, a retired Air Force logistics officer, is making changes aimed at speeding the lines. Separate paths for workers to ferry the empty gray trays out front, instead of squeezing by passengers, help. Areas where passengers were wanded with hand-held metal detectors have been shrunk. That provides more space for tables so more passengers can unload and load at once, speeding the line. And new screening machines for checked baggage, being installed downstairs with baggage handling equipment instead of in the front lobby of the terminal, can handle bags three to four times as fast, Mr. Stover said.
 During Thanksgiving week 2004, there were some long, long lines. Some passengers waited 81 minutes in Oklahoma City, 66 minutes at Los Angeles International Airport and 61 minutes in Fort Lauderdale, according to the agency's Web site. The agency would not provide 2003 data. 
 The 2004 results show that passenger experiences vary. The 81-minute wait in Oklahoma City, the longest there on the Wednesday before the holiday, was more than five times the next-worst daily wait there during the week, 16 minutes on Friday. The agency would not comment on wait times at individual airports.
 Not everyone minds the post-Sept. 11 world of cordoned-off airports. Erin Hughes, 25, a schoolteacher, sat happily, watching a DVD movie on her laptop computer, in Detroit's airport Wednesday, on her way to see a friend near Washington. ''Before, your family saw you off at the gate, and picked you up at the gate,'' she said, ''whether you wanted to see them or not.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport yesterday. (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)
 O'Hare International Airport in Chicago has 48-inch screening lanes, expanded from 36 inches, to allow faster passengers to walk past stragglers. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); THANKSGIVING (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); AVIATION SECURITY (90%); AIRLINES (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); ENGINEERING (71%); LABOR FORCE (70%) Airlines and Airplanes; Thanksgiving Day; Airports; Security and Warning Systems; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (69%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (93%) Transportation Security Administration

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (69%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: Jeff Bailey; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



479 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Oil Companies File Arbitration Against Yemen

BYLINE: By ERIC O'KEEFE

 BODY:
Two United States oil companies, taking an unusual tack, filed arbitration proceedings this week against the government of Yemen for expropriating an oil-producing block with output worth more than $1 billion a year. 
 A venture owned by the Hunt Oil Company and Exxon Mobil sought arbitration before the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris, a rare instance of oil companies taking action in an international forum against a sovereign nation.
Last week, the Yemeni government said that a government-owned company would replace the American companies' venture, the Yemen Exploration and Production Company, or Y.E.P.C., as the operator of the area, known as Block 18. 
 ''Unfortunately, Y.E.P.C. is now forced to respond to the Yemen government's failure to honor the sanctity of our legal contract by filing this arbitration,'' Ray L. Hunt, chief executive of Hunt Oil, said in a statement. 
 Sarah Tays, a spokeswoman for Exxon Mobil, said in a phone conversation from Austin, Tex., that ''Exxon Mobil supports the position of Hunt Oil as the operator of Block 18.'' 
 At Yemen's embassy in Washington, Mohammed al-Basha, a spokesman, was not available for comment Wednesday. But on the Yemen News Agency, Prime Minister Abd al-Qadir Ba Jamal said last week that the government company would run the block for the next 20 years. 
 The partnership and Yemen entered into a 20-year production-sharing agreement in 1982, Hunt Oil said. Two years later, the venture discovered the country's first oil reserves of commercial significance. 
 A five-year extension to the original agreement was signed in 2004, but the Yemeni Parliament rejected that agreement in April, according to Dow Jones news wires. Hunt Oil, however, contends that the agreement went into effect Nov. 15, the day that its venture was replaced.
 ''Since 2004, Y.E.P.C. has invested millions of dollars at the direction of the Yemeni government,'' said Michael Goldberg, a partner in the Houston law firm of Baker Botts, which is representing the venture. ''Up until Nov. 15, we fully expected that they would honor the contract. The government of Yemen had no right to take over this operation, and although we did not want to file an arbitration, they gave us no choice.''
 The Yemeni decision to replace the Hunt venture with a government-owned company may be linked to the recent surge in oil prices. With production averaging over 75,000 barrels a day, revenues from Block 18 would total $1.6 billion a year, at $58.71 a barrel, Wednesday's closing price on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 ''The present oil price climate can put tremendous political pressure on more populist governments with regard to foreign investors,'' said James Loftis, a partner at the firm of Vinson & Elkins in Houston. ''We've seen that recently in Bolivia and Venezuela, among others, and it may be the reason in Yemen.''
 Mr. Loftis is also the United States delegate to the International Chamber of Commerce's Commission on Arbitration. 
 A decision on an award by the International Chamber of Commerce's tribunal is expected late next year or in 2007. The rise in the number of arbitration cases by private companies against sovereign nations is a recent phenomenon, he said. 
 ''For most of the modern period, it was rare for a private investor to seek arbitration directly with the state, usually because they had no right to do so,'' Mr. Loftis said. 
 Even so, although there are hundreds of cases in international arbitration, only a small portion of those are against sovereign nations, and a minuscule part involve oil, a commodity in the ground that a company cannot easily walk away from.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (88%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); CONTRACTS LAW (73%); FUEL MARKETS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); LAWYERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; Suits and Litigation; Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: HUNT OIL CO (94%); LAW FIRM OF BAKER & DANIELS LLP (63%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); VINSON & ELKINS LLP (56%); DOW JONES NEWSWIRES (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (58%) Hunt Oil Co; Exxon Mobil ; Yemen Exploration and Production Co

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (94%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (63%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (63%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: Eric O'Keefe

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) YEMEN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (88%) Yemen

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



480 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: When the Founder Finally Decides to Share the Load

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
In 1996, Derek Mercer founded Recruitmax Inc., a maker of software for human resources professionals, with $100,000 in capital and the conviction that his product's simple design would make it a winner. 
 He was right: within a year, the company in Jacksonville, Fla., had turned profitable, and by 2003, it had grown to $8 million in revenue and 90 employees.
At that point, like many entrepreneurs who thrive in the hurly-burly of starting a business but falter at the everyday task of running it after it becomes successful, he faced a stark choice: cash out or hire a manager to take charge.
 ''I knew that if I wanted to grow the company to $100 million, I was at the top of my limit,'' said Mr. Mercer, now 37. 
 It is a classic quandary, and one that is playing itself out more frequently as the many start-ups that began in the early years of the current four-year economic expansion come of age.
 ''Many entrepreneurs begin to think about selling their businesses because they have become convinced that they don't have the right stuff to lead businesses to realize their full potential,'' said Bill Lee, president of Lee Resources Inc., a consulting and training firm in Orlando, Fla.
 In many cases, he says, his advice is to maintain ownership but recruit a seasoned professional to run the day-to-day operations.
 That is what Mr. Mercer did. He toyed with the idea of selling the company to an outside investor, calculating that he could walk away with more than $5 million and start another company, a common entrepreneurial strategy.
 But, he says, he could not bear to part with the business that he worked so hard to build -- and one that he believed was at the threshold of a growth spurt that could lead to an initial public offering and a much bigger payoff.
 He needed, he said, to hire ''someone smarter than me'' to run the show. ''That's what Jack Welch says: He's never 'the smartest person at the table,' '' Mr. Mercer said.
 He set out to find a chief financial officer, networking with friends and hiring an executive search firm, and finally chose Jim Philip, an investment banker in Jacksonville, with an M.B.A. from Stanford. Impressed with Mr. Philip's background in both technology start-ups and mergers and acquisitions and won over by his outgoing personality, Mr. Mercer named him president instead of finance officer, and limited his own duties to product development and customer relations. 
 ''He didn't have an understanding of how the game is played,'' Mr. Philip said of Mr. Mercer. ''He said, 'I've got to figure out how to take this to the next level. I know we can be a dominant player in this market, I just need some help getting there.' '' 
 ''The first challenge was to stop thinking like a private company and to start thinking like a public one,'' Mr. Philip said. ''Making sure all the controls are in place in the post-Enron world of public companies, making sure we've got a management team that would play well in front of Wall Street analysts.''
 Mr. Philip's mission was to build up the company and then take it public. Shortly after he came on board, Recruitmax raised $17.2 million, its first infusion of outside capital, and used the money to expand overseas by opening offices in London and Sydney, Australia.
 It subsequently acquired two companies: KnowledgePoint in California, a provider of software for managing human resources, in 2004, and InfoTechWorks in Pennsylvania, a developer of payroll management software, in 2005.
 In the 28 months with Mr. Philip at the helm, Recruitmax's work force has quadrupled to 350 and its revenue is up nearly fivefold, to about $40 million this year. Both he and Mr. Mercer declined to discuss prospects for a public offering.
 And how does Mr. Mercer feel about the power-sharing arrangement? The experience has been both liberating and wrenching. 
 ''Before Jim came on, I was the guy,'' he said. ''I was responsible for the decisions and for the vision. Bringing in Jim required trust in someone else to see and execute the vision. You've got to relinquish some control of the company, just like I did with my kids when they got older. And that's hard to do.''
 Sue Welch understands the wrenching part. She lost control of the first two companies she founded, and now is two years into running her third. But, she says, she has learned from her mistakes and is confident she can chart a happier outcome this time.
 Ms. Welch started her first venture, IMC Systems Group, a software developer in Waltham, Mass., in the mid-1980's. Venture capitalists were impressed by IMC's technology and provided millions of dollars in several rounds of financing, eventually gaining a majority interest. Then, when IMC failed to turn a profit, they cut her out of the picture.
 ''I wasn't quite sure what a V.C. was, but I sure liked the idea of someone giving me millions of dollars,'' said Ms. Welch, 53. ''In 1992 they took control of the company, and I was out on the street.''
 The day after leaving IMC, she founded her second company, RockPort Trade Systems, a maker of software that competed with IMC. 
 It became the top provider of global sourcing software, she says, and in 2000 she sold it for $100 million to the QRS Corporation, a large company that manages electronic commerce. She stayed on, but soon grew disenchanted at her diminished role.
 ''I now worked for someone else, and they owned the rights to my vision and more importantly, they had their own vision of it,'' she said. She left in February 2001.
 When she started her third company, Tradestone Software, in 2003, she promised herself that she would go into any strategic partnership with her eyes wide open. She says she has been approached by venture capitalists and other investors interested in acquiring all or part of Tradestone, a maker of software for retailers, but has turned them all away.
 Instead, she is looking for a smart No. 2 to help build the company into a major player. Already it has grown to 43 employees, and Ms. Welch expects to hire 20 during the next few months. 
 She says Tradestone has ventured into the European market and will expand to Asia in January and perhaps later to South Africa. She would not disclose financial results but said that the company was profitable. 
 Whomever she chooses, she says, she intends to give her new lieutenant as much power as she deems necessary. ''I need someone who can share the vision and the travel,'' she said, and who can ''unify the company so we can all be in multiple places at multiple times.''
 She added that ''one of the things with getting older is you no longer think you need to do it all.''
 Of course, it is not always easy to sit back and watch someone else swoop in and overhaul the company that is your pride and joy, even if you invited them. 
 Before Wayne McVicker and his partner, Jeff Kleck, took their four-year-old software company, Neoforma, public in 2000, they agreed they should hire a battle-hardened corporate chief executive. 
 It was an easy decision, ''but the process was not necessarily so,'' said Mr. McVicker, 46, who interviewed dozens of candidates before selecting Bob Zollars, a senior executive at Cardinal Health in Ohio, a provider of health care products and services. 
 ''The slow, almost imperceptible shifting of control out of our hands and into others was really difficult,'' he said. Mr. McVicker even wrote a book about the experience, ''Starting Something,'' published in October 2004 by Ravel Media.
 It all worked out in the end -- sort of. The company went public in 2000, making Mr. McVicker and Mr. Kleck wealthy men (on paper, anyway). 
 Both stayed on through April of 2001, then left to start Attainia Inc., another health care software company. (About six weeks ago, Neoforma was acquired by GHX, a competitor.)
 ''To me, Neoforma was like a child,'' Mr. McVicker said. ''I had loved it and nurtured it, but now it was growing up. I still loved it, but I didn't necessarily like everything about it. It wasn't as cute anymore.''
 Today, the two partners say they are less likely to feel the need to bring in someone else to run their new company, although they would not rule it out. This time, Mr. McVicker said, ''we have more experience.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Philip, left, the president, and Derek Mercer, the founder, with Angel Cabrera, right, a Recruitmax officer. (Photo by Oscar Sosa for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MERGERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%) Small Business; Company and Organization Profiles; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Computers and the Internet; Small Business

ORGANIZATION: Recruitmax Inc; Tradestone Software

PERSON: JACK WELCH (55%) Derek Mercer; Jim Philip; Sue Welch; Abby Ellin

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (88%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



481 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Shares Climb on Lower Oil Prices and Rising Confidence

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Better-than-expected consumer confidence numbers and a drop in oil prices sent stocks higher yesterday, extending Wall Street's November rally in light preholiday trading.
 Investors were encouraged by the University of Michigan's consumer confidence index, which came in at 81.6, slightly higher than the 81 reading that Wall Street had expected. That could bode well as consumers head to the malls tomorrow for the start of the holiday shopping season.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 44.66 points, or 0.41 percent, to 10,916.09. Broader stock indicators also rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 4.38 points, or 0.35 percent, to 1,265.61, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 6.42 points, or 0.28 percent, to 2,259.98. 
 Shares of retailers including Federated Department Stores and Best Buy rose. Federated, which owns Macy's and Bloomingdale's, gained $2.14, or 3.2 percent, to close at $68.11. Best Buy gained 84 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $49. 
 Oil prices dropped after the Energy Department reported substantial increases in the nation's fuel stockpiles. A barrel of light crude was quoted at $58.71, down 13 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 ''This definitely helps the continuation of the rally,'' said Peter Cardillo, chief strategist and senior vice president at S. W. Bach & Company. ''From here, I see the continuation of this rally through the end of the year.''
 Volume is traditionally light during the Thanksgiving holiday week; the markets will be closed today and the session tomorrow will be shortened. 
 ''This is the time of the year that the market, historically, goes up,'' said Barry Berman, head trader for Robert W. Baird & Company in Milwaukee. ''There's a sense that that rally has started and people are jumping on board.''
 The meat processor Hormel Foods said fourth-quarter earnings rose 17 percent because of a strong turkey market and improved production. But the company, which makes Spam, said the outlook for the second half of 2006 was unclear, and Merrill Lynch cut the company's rating, saying it would be hard for next year's results to beat 2005's. Hormel shares fell $2.28, or 6.5 percent, to $32.74.
 Research in Motion, maker of the Blackberry mobile e-mail device, fell 80 cents, to $66.28, after it cut its third- and fourth-quarter subscriber forecasts because of delayed product introductions. The company reaffirmed its third-quarter profit forecasts, however.
 Advancing issues led decliners by roughly 9 to 7 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.69 billion shares, compared with 1.56 billion traded at the same point Tuesday.
 Treasury securities fell, with the price of the benchmark 10-year note declining 16/32, to 100 3/32, by late in the day. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.49 percent from 4.43 percent on Tuesday. 
 The dollar was mixed against other currencies, while gold prices fell.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of two-year notes: 



 (000 omitted in dollar figures)	 	High Price	99.812	High Yield	4.349	Low Yield	4.290	Median Yield	4.319	Accepted at low price	50%	Total applied for	49,831,585	Accepted	26,666,675	Noncompetitive	812,918	Interest set at	4.25	




GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); THANKSGIVING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (66%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (61%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (73%); ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (65%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (73%); RIM (TSX) (51%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (73%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (76%) MICHIGAN, USA (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



482 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: Bid for Drax Is Dropped 

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Constellation Energy Group, the owner of three nuclear plants in the United States, and the Blackstone Group buyout firm dropped a $:2.23 billion ($3.84 billion) bid for the British energy company Drax Group, which refused the offer because it was too low. A significant majority of Drax shareholders did not support the bid, the company said yesterday in a statement. The bidders for Drax, which operates Europe's biggest coal-fired power plant and is based in Selby, England, also included the Perry Capital hedge fund and the buyout company, Hellman & Friedman. Drax is the second British utility in two days to reject a takeover offer as inadequate as companies bet that soaring energy prices will raise earnings. Scottish Power, Britain's fifth-largest power provider, said on Tuesday that an $:11.3 billion ($19.4 billion) proposal from E.ON of Germany was too low, prompting E.ON to withdraw the bid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (88%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); TAKEOVERS (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (87%); COCAINE (74%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); TRENDS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%) International Trade and World Market; Inventions and Patents; Cocaine and Crack Cocaine; Economic Conditions and Trends; Agriculture; Foreign Investments; International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); E.ON SE (58%); EXELON CORP (58%); HELLMAN & FRIEDMAN LLC (57%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (58%); EOAN (FRA) (58%); EOAN (BIT) (58%); EXC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); SCOTLAND (79%); ENGLAND (57%); GERMANY (55%) Peru; Colombia; Ecuador ; Bolivia

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



483 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Online Shopper; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Last-Minute Family Trip: We'll Take Paris

BYLINE: By Michelle Slatalla. 
E-mail: slatalla@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I'M told that some people enjoy planning a family vacation.
 Perhaps they don't live in households with competing interests, where the husband realizes in November that he'd like to go to the beach in December -- preferably not near other tourists -- and where each of the three children has a specific agenda as well. One teenager dislikes car trips, another doesn't like sharing a room with her sisters, and a third, at the age of 8, is desperate to visit any foreign city where the street signs are in another language.
Did I mention that the dogs get depressed anytime we go anywhere?
 I figured the Internet would help me overcome these obstacles; over the years I've effortlessly booked countless cookie-cutter business trips on Expedia.com and Travelocity.com. 
 But a family vacation that required transporting five people of widely varying ages, interests and temperaments across a continent -- or farther -- during one of the busiest travel seasons of the year required a far more sophisticated level of planning. So far I have spent about 100 hours online lining up a last-minute trip. Here's how.

STEP 1 : DESPAIR. I wasted time on marketing gimmicks at travel sites, naively believing that come-ons like ''Worldwide Holiday Travel Sale Fly Roundtrip From $103+'' would get my family from San Francisco to, say, San Diego for $143 roundtrip. But there was always a fatal catch; for instance travel blackout dates would have required me to take my children out of school two weeks before winter vacation began.
 I also considered driving from my house in Northern California to share a rented Manhattan Beach house with another family, but abandoned the idea after all but the smallest rentals at Marineviewmanagement.com turned out to be unavailable. 
 I did no better offline. A call to a local travel agent, in which I said my only requirements were warm weather and dates that coincided with school break, yielded two package-deal possibilities: five days in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, for $7,300 (at a price we didn't want to pay for a destination no one really wanted) and a week at a business hotel in Guatemala City for $5,800.
 I canceled the dog sitter.

STEP 2: AN UNEXPECTED PHONE CALL. My friend Joan, who lives in Manhattan, called and asked, ''Do you want to go to Paris?''
 ''Paris?'' I repeated.
 Joan said, ''It's a lot easier to get to Europe last minute than to a warm place where everyone else wants to go.''
 I said, ''I've never been to Paris.''
 I phoned my husband. He said, ''I've never been to Paris, much less when no one else was there.''
 I said, ''We don't speak French.''
 He said, ''We have a month to learn.''
 My daughters said, ''Oui!''
 I consulted a free English-to-French translation site and then with an atrocious accent asked the dog sitter, ''Etes-vous disponible?''

STEP 3: THE AIRFARE SUSPENSE. While I was waiting to hear whether Joan's travel dates coincided with mine (no two schools in America have the same vacation schedule), I went to Orbitz.com and other travel sites to compare airfares and found, on Travelocity, a nonstop Air France flight that would get the five of us from San Francisco to Paris in under 11 hours for $7,200. According to the seating chart, 110 economy seats were available on the outbound flight and 47 remained on the return.
 Three days later, when I was ready to book, however, Travelocity.com had sold out of the return seats; the only option was an 18-hour trip that included a layover in Cincinnati. 
 The thing to do in such a disaster is to go directly to an airline's site. At Airfrance.com, nonstop flights were still available. Imagining the seats getting filled by other families even as I typed, I started the online reservation process, and the site malfunctioned. Choices on a pull-down menu suddenly disappeared. I restarted my browser. I got as far as confirming a price -- $7,200 -- and entering passport numbers when I hit a wrong key, and my itinerary timed out. Start again, the site advised. Instead I phoned.
 Fifteen minutes later I had a confirmation number for five seats for a total of $7,000, a $200 savings that the reservations clerk could not explain and that I considered reimbursement for my hellish online experience. 
 Subsequently I checked fares again, only to learn that the same Air France tickets would have cost $17,000 if I'd waited another three days to book. I shrieked, ''L'horreur!'' and shuddered.

STEP 4: WHERE TO SLEEP? My husband suggested an apartment, so I checked Chezvous.com, a site that offers luxury rentals, but learned the largest apartment would sleep only eight and, counting Joan's family, we were nine.
 Then my husband said another friend, who coincidentally also would be in Paris at the time with his family, recommended the Madison Hotel (hotel-madison.com). Then another friend who just moved back to Manhattan after two years in Paris suggested the Hotel d'Angleterre (hotel-dangleterre.com) and the Hotel du Danube (hoteldanube.fr), where she coincidentally would be with her family at the same time. 
 ''I thought everyone wanted to go somewhere warm,'' my husband said.
 ''We have unusual friends,'' I said. Then Joan phoned to suggest the Relais Christine (relais-christine.com) and Hotel Lutetia (lutetia-paris.com).
 I checked Tripadvisor.com, where I could browse up to three million posts about hotels and trips from real travelers, including tidbits like candid, full-color photos of the plumbing fixtures in the bathrooms at the Hotel d'Angleterre.
 Then I contacted each hotel to discuss the unusual configuration of rooms we needed. (As English speakers answered the phone at each hotel, I did not have a chance to ask, ''Avez-vous des chambres disponibles?,'' which probably was for the best.)
 I learned published rates on the Internet were frequently outdated, and rooms were filling up quickly. The Hotel d'Angleterre had accommodations for a family of five, but responded to a follow-up query with e-mail that said, ''Dear Madam, We are sorry but we have no more rooms available for the same period. Yours faithfully, Reservation Department.''
 By the time Joan sent e-mail suggesting more hotel possibilities, Hotel Duc de Saint Simon (hotelducdesaintsimon.com) and Pershing Hall (pershinghall.com), the cautionary tale of the $17,000 airfare was weighing heavily on me. I reserved two rooms, and Joan did the same. We'll be at the Hotel Lutetia, where we will no doubt run into our next-door neighbors in the hallway. C'est la vie.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Marilena Perilli)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); FAMILY TRAVEL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CHILDREN (89%) Travel and Vacations; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: EXPEDIA INC (90%); TRAVELOCITY.COM INC (56%)

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (90%)

PERSON: Michelle Slatalla

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); EUROPE (70%) Paris (France)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



484 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; BLOCKS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Does Putting Up a Glass Galleria Count as Bringing Back a Street? 

BYLINE: By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
CORTLANDT -- the street that was but isn't -- may not be again. 
 Advancing its retail plans for the new World Trade Center, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey released renderings last week of a new passage where Cortlandt Street once ran, between Church and Greenwich Streets. They showed a multilevel, glass-walled shopping galleria called Cortlandt Way instead of a regular thoroughfare.
A strong planning tenet after 9/11 was that much of the old street grid obliterated by the trade center superblock in the 1960's ought to be restored, reconnecting the site with the rest of Lower Manhattan. 
 It seems certain now that several lost streets will return. But how public will they be? Since security dictates the wide separation of roadways from potential targets, it is hard to believe that any of the streets within the site will be open to unregulated traffic in the foreseeable future, even if they are not enclosed.
 Enclosing a street raises even more issues. And City Hall is not yet convinced.
 Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff said a galleria would diminish views to and from the 9/11 memorial. Joined to structures on Liberty and Dey Streets, it would create an unbroken two-block wall, he said. And it would be crossed by elevated walkways. ''We generally frown upon bridges over the streets,'' Mr. Doctoroff said.
 He said the authority had tried to respond to the city's concerns by enclosing the galleria in glass and recessing its facade, but he added, ''We still have a lot of work to do.''
 Cortlandt Street was not ceded to the city by the authority in the Nov. 24, 2004, redevelopment agreement that returned Fulton and Greenwich Streets to municipal control. Instead, its fate was left to ''be determined through mutual agreement.''
 City planners did not want a repeat of the underground trade center concourse, which drew shoppers -- and vitality -- from surrounding sidewalks. The authority is using the galleria to meet a goal in the agreement that 50 percent of retail space at the site be placed aboveground and to solve problems of light, wind and security posed by having two very tall towers less than 50 feet apart. 
 Cortlandt Way would be a counterpart to the Winter Garden in the World Financial Center, said Charles A. Gargano, the vice chairman of the authority. It would be a hub in a five-level, 505,000-square-foot shopping complex radiating through and under office towers on Church Street and the new PATH terminal.
 The prospect of enlivening Church Street may temper some opposition to a galleria. ''The natural predilection of the civic community is that streets should remain open,'' said Petra Todorovich, a senior planner at the Regional Plan Association. ''On the other hand, we've been very supportive of the role retail can play in the revitalization of Lower Manhattan. We're not ruling out the Port Authority's proposal at all.''
 Cortlandt Street, from Broadway to the Hudson River, was given to the city in 1733 by Frederick Van Cortlandt and others. (Yes, that is a bell ringing. He later built Van Cortlandt Mansion on the family estate that is now Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx.) Robert Fulton's steamboat departed from the foot of Cortlandt Street. Herman Melville lived there as a boy. In the 20th century, the west end became an electronics marketplace called Radio Row.
 The block between Church and Greenwich Streets was home to the Cortlandt Building of the Hudson Terminal complex, predecessor to PATH; Peter Henderson & Company, a famous gardening store; Volk's restaurant; and Syms men's apparel, whose proprietor, Sy Syms, was an outspoken trade center opponent.
 Cortlandt Street was the site of the first property acquired for the trade center in 1965, the first building torn down for the center in 1965 and the earliest construction in 1966.
 THEN, three blocks of it were wiped out. A line drawn along its route would have run through 4 World Trade Center, 2 World Trade Center (the south tower) and 3 World Trade Center (the Marriott hotel).
 After the attack, once the tower footprints were ruled out as a development site, there was no chance of recreating the west end. But in 2003, by a vote of 36 to 2, Community Board 1 called for the east end to be ''a public open street lined with street-level retail establishments.''
 Madelyn Wils, a member of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation board, who was then chairwoman of the community board, said: ''I always felt that Cortlandt Street should be open. Open as a view corridor. Open in a friendly, pedestrian way. Open -- even if not in our lifetime -- to vehicular traffic.''
 A galleria would frustrate physical and visual connections and send an ominous planning signal about Fulton and Greenwich Streets, said Fredric M. Bell, executive director of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects.
 ''If, little by little, the streets get closed as easily as the Port Authority assumes Cortlandt Street will be closed,'' he said, ''the big streets will be next.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering shows two possible retail structures at the World Trade Center site, connected by the Cortlandt Way galleria, along the former path of Cortlandt Street. (Photo by Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); CITIES (72%); MAYORS (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (67%) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Lower Manhattan Redevelopment Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

PERSON: David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



485 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: This One Meal

 BODY:
Somehow Thanksgiving always recalls the past. The question is which past. For most of us, the Pilgrims and their sufferings are no more real than the thought of a cold November day without central heating. The richest part of our imagination is bounded by childhood, and when we think of an authentic, historical Thanksgiving, we tend to mean the kind of feast we ate when the adults all seemed so much bigger and wiser and funnier -- a feast that is authentic right down to the Jell-O salad, if you come from the Jell-O salad part of the country. 
 If you happen to be old enough, you celebrated Thanksgiving, as a child, in the company of adults who grew up during the Great Depression or came of age during World War II. What they tended to bring to the feast was a keen sense of gratitude.
 ''When I was your age,'' the stories began, stories of deprivation that contained within them a certain wonder at the abundance the storytellers found around them -- not just the richness of the table itself, but the warmth and illumination of the houses, the way they kept a dark, wet November at bay. It was hard to hear those stories without feeling a certain skepticism. If life had been that difficult, why did grown-ups enjoy talking about it so much?
 We often find it hard to be as thankful as we should be these days. For so many Americans, it is no longer a question of having too little or having enough. It's the difference between having too much and having way, way too much. 
 It is too easy to forget, amid this abundance, that all across America a different kind of Great Depression is still going on. The old stories would have been told very differently -- if they were told at all -- if they had been tales of growing up poor in the midst of wealth. There was no shame in the collective poverty of the Great Depression. There is no shame in the poverty Americans suffer today. The shame adheres to those who do nothing to change it. 
 Perhaps it isn't necessary to have gone hungry in order to be thankful for eating well. In a land of economic entitlement, gratitude may be almost too old-fashioned to sustain for more than this one day. But then there is something to be said for an old-fashioned holiday like this one. For a moment, we grasp how rich we are, how close we feel to the ones around us, and we give thanks before it all seems merely normal again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); GREAT DEPRESSION (88%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); WORLD WAR II (54%) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



486 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: The Bush Presidency, in the Balance

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 We now have 50 million people in Iraq and Afghanistan with a chance for freedom; democracy inching forward in the Middle East; hope in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; 5 percent unemployment; a 3.8 percent rise in the gross domestic product; several million jobs created; minority achievement gap narrowing; two Supreme Court justices and counting. A great president!

Florence Schmieg
Wilmington, Del., Nov. 23, 2005 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); JOB CREATION (84%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (84%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (82%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (53%); SUPREME COURTS (51%) 

PERSON: Florence Schmieg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (65%) DELAWARE, USA (65%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (91%); MIDDLE EAST (72%); AFGHANISTAN (72%); UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



487 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: When We Buy Food

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Stuck in the Middle,'' by Dan Barber (Op-Ed, Nov. 23): 
 We, as a public, need to better understand our roles in the continuing evolution of American agricultural practices. The choices we make when buying food, and the taxes through which we finance agricultural subsidies -- all these strands weave us into the agricultural economy. 
 But any discussion of agriculture that accurately portrays our complex modern system must show the role of the large corporate food processor. 
 The food-processing industry increasingly dictates the terms on which farmers and corporations farm. And through growing political clout, the food-processing industry also increasingly dictates terms to the taxpayer.

Anne Mackin
Boston, Nov. 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (71%) 

PERSON: Anne Mackin; Dan Barber

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



488 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Storm-Swept Yucatan Hotels Trying to Fix Up for Tourists

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: CHIQUILA, Mexico, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
Porfirio Guzman Vazquez does not need a politician to tell him how long it will take to recover from Hurricane Wilma. He just looks out the hole that used to be his living room wall at the four oceangoing fishing boats beached and broken on the road outside his house. 
 The boats are battered, holes in their sides, prows busted. Mr. Guzman used to pilot one of them for a local fishing cooperative. There are no fish now; a month after the storm, the water is still too turbid. Everyone in this fishing village is living on slim savings and mending nets, eyes scanning the horizon for better weather.
''The crisis is very critical,'' Mr. Guzman said. ''There's no work. There are no fish. There's no tourism.'' 
 Throughout the northeastern tip of the Yucatan Peninsula, where a month ago Hurricane Wilma whirled with malevolent force, fishermen, hoteliers, restaurant owners, divers, nightclub impresarios and the thousands who work for them are still picking up the pieces. And everyone is hoping that not only the fish but the tourists will come back.
 There are signs of progress everywhere. In contrast to the halting United States response in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast, the Mexican government has jumped in to restore power and clear away tons of debris from the streets. The fetid water that flooded streets has receded. The flooded portions of the major roads have been rebuilt with landfill. 
 In Cancun, construction workers swarm over dozens of battered hotels and restaurants along the famous hotel strip, racing to repair the damage before the December rush. Here and there are signs saying, ''We Are Open'' or ''Cancun Is on Its Feet.'' 
 But the initial promise that most of the resorts in Cancun would be up and running by Dec. 15, when tourists fleeing the North American winter usually begin flocking to the Yucatan, has turned out to be overly optimistic, local officials say.
 ''It's going to take at least six months to recover,'' said Rangel Rosado, a spokesman for Mayor Francisco Alor. ''We all know, those of us who are living inside it. It's not that easy.''
 For starters, the hurricane swept about eight miles of pristine white beach out to sea along the barrier island where many of the lavish, five-star resorts are built. ''No hotel in Cancun has a beach,'' said Jorge Hernandez, the operations manager at the Gran Real Caribe. ''We have nothing. No beach at all.''
 The federal government has devoted $20 million to a project that will pump the sand from its current location offshore near Isla Mujeres back to the stripped strand of rocks where the fancy hotels are. But the work has yet to begin, officials said. 
 The damage under water was severe as well, said Jaime Gonzalez, the official in charge of the coast's coral reefs. Dozens of park workers are painstakingly removing curtains, windows and other debris from the reefs and patching up broken coral with cement and plastic.
 So far only about 2,500 people have been laid off in Cancun, a city of 800,000 that depends almost entirely on tourism. The government has started retraining about 34,000 workers for construction jobs. In the meantime the 225,000 hotel workers have been put to work cleaning up. Many feel a deep uneasiness about the future. The publicity surrounding the storm has driven some tourists away.
 ''Here what is, is tourism,'' said Eva Duran, 50, a cleaning woman at the Riu Cancun Hotel. ''If there is no tourism, they will start to let people go. I think everyone's a little nervous.''
 It is not just hotel workers who are nervous. Built in the last 30 years, Cancun and the resorts to its south and north drew about 7.1 million tourists last year, bringing in about $4 billion. 
 That is one reason that two Mexican tourism officials and the governor of Quintana Roo visited New York last week to try to counter the impression left by press reports that since the hurricane the entire peninsula is a wreck. 
 To a degree, the officials are right. Of the 59,400 hotel rooms in the region, only about 28,000 were in Cancun, where the heaviest damage occurred. Resorts like Tulum and Playa del Carmen are in good shape. Artemos Santos Santos, the head of the Convention and Visitors Bureau, said the city should have about 11,000 rooms available by Dec. 20. ''We are carrying out a rapid recovery,'' he said.
 Still, many of those rooms are in the older hotels in downtown Cancun, and several of the major resorts along the barrier island have no plans to open until spring or even summer, among them two Hyatt hotels, the Ritz Carlton, the J. W. Marriot, the Sheraton and the Hilton. 
 Some hotels are taking advantage of the situation to carry out long-planned renovations. Others are considering more hurricane-resistant construction. Sergio Serra, director of sales and marketing for the Hilton, said a team of engineers was still reviewing the damage at the 426-room hotel. There is no way that it will open before March, he said.
 ''We are probably looking at taking into consideration hurricane-proof equipment and furnishings,'' he said.
 While the big hotel chains have the luxury of waiting to reopen, the fishermen and smaller hoteliers in Chiquila and on the island of Holbox to the north are growing more desperate. The fishermen divide their time between catching lobsters and taking tourists to see the whale sharks that congregate just off their shores.
 The hurricane not only destroyed most of their larger boats and their piers, but it also severely damaged dozens of outboard motors and carried off thousands of lobster traps. On a recent day, about two dozen fishermen were patiently waiting at the Vanguardia del Mar fishing cooperative while mechanics took their engines apart and rebuilt them. 
 Several grumbled that the government had initially offered them grants to fix their boats but then gave them loans instead. In the last month, they said, they would have normally caught four tons of fish and 225 pounds of lobster.
 ''We have to get the motors working,'' said Rogelio Santana, 34, a fisherman who has been supporting his two children on government handouts since the hurricane struck last month. ''There is no economy now. No money. Nothing. No tourism, no fish.''
 All along Holbox's white beach, the island's small hotels were severely damaged. Several will not reopen for months. At the Villas Delfines, the manager, Dieter Biebelriether, 59, a German expatriate, said he would be ready to reopen on Dec. 15, despite the piles of debris on the hotel's front steps. ''This is for sure,'' he said. ''We have been working here day and night.''
 Farther down the strand, Urvalin Coral, 50, mended his nets with a skilled hand. He was waiting for the water to clear, as he knows it will from a lifetime of fishing. He has lost 40 lobster traps -- $4,000 worth of gear. But he managed to save his engines and two launches, so he feels lucky. He said he had faith that the fish would return.
 ''In all my life I never passed through a storm like that,'' he said, his hands flying through his nets, fixing a hole left by a shark. ''We hope to God everything returns to normal.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Battered fishing boats litter the shore at Chiquila since towering waves from Hurricane Wilma washed them out of the water last month.
 Construction workers in Cancun trying to repair storm damage in time for the start of the tourist season. (Photographs by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)Map of Mexico highlighting Chiquila: Chiquila, Cancun and vicinity were hit by Hurricane Wilma.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); WEATHER (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (77%); RESORTS (75%); BEACHES (75%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); POWER FAILURES (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); LANDFILLS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hotels and Motels; Wilma (Storm); Fishing, Commercial; Restaurants; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: James C Jr Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Mexico; Yucatan Peninsula (Mex); Cancun (Mexico) ; Chiquila (Mexico)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



489 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: You Are What You Overeat

BYLINE: By Richard Klein. 
Richard Klein, a professor of French at Cornell, is the author of ''Eat Fat.''

DATELINE: Ithaca, N.Y. 

 BODY:
WHEN Thanksgiving rolls around, my thoughts turn to stuffing. I don't ordinarily stuff the birds I roast. But planning a turkey dinner for 20, I reflect on my options. I could make the stuffing with chestnuts, but I'd have to roast and peel them -- a tedious business. I could make it with dried fruit and bread crusts, but meat with fruit is a bore. I like cornbread in my stuffing, but it's a bother to bake and a risk to buy. I love the chicken liver and ricotta recipe, but Aunt Helen doesn't. What to do? 
 My choice of stuffing at Thanksgiving influences my feelings about the holiday as a whole. Like other holidays, Thanksgiving is devoted to exceeding limits. We are supposed to get drunk on New Year's Eve and Purim; Christmas is required to be an orgy of generosity. But never do I receive such blanket permission for excess as I do from the spectacle of a plump turkey. 
The bird reminds me of everything attractive about plumpness, a quality too rarely considered appealing these days. But who doesn't love the swelling thigh -- shiny and bronzed? And then there is the stuffing, which is the true index of the stuffing this holiday allows. 
 With the complicity of the family, on Thanksgiving you are invited to eat more than you can eat -- to hurl aside moderation, restraint and the bad conscience with which you routinely approach the table. The imperative is to stuff yourself, and to start with the fat-filled stuffing that leaves you feeling fed up to the gills.
 Those who worry us about public health will issue their Thanksgiving warnings about overeating. A study published last month predicted that 9 of 10 men and 7 of 10 women -- pretty much all of us -- will eventually become overweight. Taking an extra helping of stuffing contributes to what the health watchdogs like to call America's epidemic of obesity. The expression misleadingly evokes the image of a spreading infectious disease and calls for drastic action.
 Stuffing at Thanksgiving won't kill you, but it may shorten your life by increasing your risk of dying young, as the epidemiologists say. By how much is not at all clear. Recently the Centers for Disease Control revised its estimates of the deaths due to fat from 400,000 -- are you ready for this? -- down to 25,814. But if you choose to take the risk of wildly overeating, consider its possible benefits as well.
 There must be a reason that all societies sanction public excess at certain moments of the year. Perhaps the occasional orgy is supposed to allow us to better gauge our limits the rest of the time -- just as one learns to drink moderately by getting drunk at least once. Perhaps we should see the Thanksgiving table not as a hurdle to clear but as an opportunity to test our limits by surpassing them. 
 Indeed, one could argue that stuffing at Thanksgiving is a moral or civic obligation. Even the science of obesity has to yield before the human need to splurge -- to expend or consume in excess -- from time to time. Such binges are not aberrations but losses of self necessary to our sanity. 
 Ordinarily our lives are ruled by the economy of profit and loss: we weigh an action's possible benefit against its potential harm. But there is another economy, too: one of pure expenditure, for which we expect no return. 
 That other economy urges us to consume more than we can afford, to surpass our self-interest, to let go, give in, take in more than we can chew. Overtaking our own limits -- exiting the self in order to recover the self -- can heighten our awareness of our capacity for pleasure.
 Of course, we risk overdosing. Thanksgiving stuffing is a kind of narcotic. That's probably why our minders view the year's best holiday with deep suspicion. But remember that the family is complicit in this orgy. It has gathered to allow you to do what you would never do on your own: eat an enormous meal, but somehow end up on the couch in front of the TV, and not on the floor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (86%); CHRISTMAS (78%); OBESITY (75%); PURIM (69%); EPIDEMICS (68%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (68%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (64%); RESEARCH REPORTS (64%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (63%) 

COMPANY: YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (58%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (58%)

PERSON: Richard (Prof) Klein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



490 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Jakarta Welcomes U.S. Move to End Arms Curbs

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
Indonesia has welcomed a decision by the United States to lift a six-year-old arms embargo to help the mostly Muslim nation fight terrorism, but human rights groups said the decision betrayed victims of military brutality. 
 President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, an American-education former general, said Wednesday on a visit to India that the move represented ''a new chapter'' and would enable Indonesia to modernize its military.
But John Miller, from the East Timor and Indonesia Action Network, said, ''This is a profoundly disappointing and sad day for human rights protections everywhere.''
 The military has long been accused of human rights violations in putting down separatists. 
 The Bush administration had wanted to lift the arms embargo, imposed in 1999 after troops ravaged East Timor during the territory's break from Jakarta, but was stymied by demands from American lawmakers that the Indonesian military undertake meaningful reform.
 Citing national security concerns, the State Department used recently granted powers to waive the curbs.
 ''Indonesia plays a unique strategic role in Southeast Asia,'' Sean McCormack, a State Department spokesman, said Tuesday in explaining the decision. It is ''a voice of moderation in the Islamic world.'' 
 Indonesia is the world's most populous Muslim nation and is seen by the United States as a major ally in the effort to curb terror. Militants with links to Al Qaeda have carried out deadly bombings on Western targets here since 2002, including suicide attacks last month on three crowded restaurants on Bali that killed 20 people.
 But the decision to lift the embargo may also reflect the United States' desire to increase its influence in Southeast Asia to counterbalance China's growing importance.
 Parts of the embargo had already been lifted, but lethal weapons could not be sold to Indonesia.
 Mr. McCormack said that the administration planned to help modernize the military and support American and Indonesian security objectives, including counterterrorism, but that the United States ''remained committed to pressing for accountability for past human rights abuses.''
 Moves to restore ties accelerated after the tsunami last December, which killed 130,000 people here, when American and Indonesian soldiers worked together to aid victims. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); ARMS TRADE (91%); TERRORISM (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMS EMBARGOES (90%); RELIGION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%) United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Arms Sales Abroad; Foreign Aid; Freedom and Human Rights; Terrorism; Islam

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (95%); INDIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (92%); ASIA (92%) Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



491 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: A German Auto Supplier Delphi Might Envy

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
When Manfred Wennemer talks about the American auto industry these days, he sounds like a driver thankful to have survived a nasty pileup with a few scratches.
 His German auto parts maker, Continental, has avoided most of the jolts that have rattled its American counterparts. While Delphi and its biggest customer, General Motors, are struggling to stave off financial problems, Continental's profits are surging and its stock is hitting record highs.
And yet Continental has gotten a taste of the hard times across the Atlantic. It recently laid off a quarter of the 1,200 workers at its tire factory in Charlotte, N.C., and is demanding concessions in benefits from those who remain. It no longer predicts when it will stop losing money in the United States.
 ''There's a cost burden that no one can manage away,'' Mr. Wennemer, the chief executive of Continental, said in an interview recently. ''The United States has to find a way to solve that.'' 
 Fortunately for Continental, the world's fourth-largest tire maker with brands like Uniroyal and General Tire, and Europe's second-largest auto parts supplier after Bosch, the United States accounts for less than a fifth of its $14.7 billion in sales. For Mr. Wennemer, the problems at Delphi, General Motors and in his own American factories merely serve to dramatize the message he drives home day after day.
 ''We have to reduce our prices to our customers by 3 percent to 5 percent per year,'' Mr. Wennemer said. ''If you don't do this, you shouldn't be in this industry. Not everybody understands that.''
 This relentless focus on costs has turned Continental into one of the quiet stars of German industry -- a global powerhouse that makes tires in Malaysia, conveyor belts in Hungary, and brakes in Brazil. It has also made Mr. Wennemer, 58, a blunt-spoken mathematician with eyeglasses the size of saucers, into one of Germany's most respected chief executives.
 ''He is a very unassuming guy,'' said Ferdinand Dudenhoffer, the director of the Center for Automotive Research in Gelsenkirchen. ''He always says, 'Look at the other C.E.O.'s, they're more important than me.' But those guys could learn from him.''
 The success of Continental is remarkable, given the fierce pressure on the American and European auto industries. Although it is in some of the same businesses as Delphi, and supplies the same carmakers, Continental's operating earnings jumped 35.9 percent in the first nine months of 2005, compared with last year. Its stock has risen close to 60 percent in the last 12 months.
 If Delphi is forced to auction some of its assets, Continental has already put up its hand as a potential bidder.
 ''They really want to get into electronic steering,'' said Thomas Aney, an auto parts analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in Frankfurt. ''Delphi has got a good business in that.''
 Mr. Wennemer, a onetime cosmetics executive, took over Continental in 2001 after a string of acquisitions left the company deep in debt. His recipe for success, he insists, is not mysterious: create a stream of innovative products and produce them, as much as possible, in low-cost countries.
 Among Continental's most advanced offerings are an antirollover technology, known as electronic stability control, and ''run-flat tires,'' which allow vehicles to roll to the next gas station on a deflated tire.
 Sixty percent of Continental's 81,600 employees work outside Germany; Brazil, China and Romania are among the fastest-growing markets. Fewer than 15 percent work in the United States and Mexico. 
 On Tuesday, Continental announced that it would cut 320 jobs, or 10 percent of the work force, at its tire factory in Hanover, the northern German city where it was founded in 1871 and is still based.
 As Continental throttles back in Germany and the United States, it is accelerating in Asia. On Monday, the company opened a new Asian headquarters in Shanghai, and announced that its automotive systems division would double its sales in the region to 1 billion euros ($1.17 billion) by 2010.
 ''Where are the areas in the world with the new customers?'' Mr. Wennemer said. ''Where is the music playing? It's in Asia.''
 Nor does he view countries outside Germany and the United States simply as a source of cheap labor. Continental recently opened a research center in Romania, where it is developing sophisticated electronics systems.
 That does not mean higher-cost economies like Germany have no role to play, he said. They must focus on retaining capital-intensive manufacturing. In suburban Frankfurt, for example, sits one of Continental's most advanced factories, making electronic braking systems.
 The plant is almost fully automated; labor costs account for less than 4 percent of the total production costs. And because its machines are running at full capacity, Mr. Wennemer said the factory was more efficient than similar plants in China, Japan and the United States.
 The trouble is, Germany still remains dependent on the kind of labor-intensive manufacturing that Continental is seeking to move abroad. That has inevitably strained its relations with the unions.
 Several hundred workers protested in front of Continental's headquarters last May, when word of its planned job cuts in Germany first circulated. They carried placards depicting the company as an ''insatiable caterpillar,'' cutting jobs despite its growing sales and profits.
 Mr. Wennemer makes no apologies. German workers, he said, should forget about competing with workers in Romania or China. And they will not even be competitive with their neighbors in Western Europe, unless they are willing to work longer hours for the same pay.
 ''Why can't Germans work 40 hours a week, if the rest of the world is working 40, 50, and in China, 60 hours a week?'' he said, rapping on the table. ''It's a mystery to me why we don't move in this direction, and finally compete with those countries where we have a chance.''
 Unlike other German chief executives, Mr. Wennemer does not trumpet those occasions when he keeps jobs in Germany. For him, the notion that German companies have a duty to preserve German jobs is not only illogical, but ultimately damages the country's competitiveness.
 ''I help my country because I think the problems have to grow before we finally are forced to act,'' he said. ''We still think the world around us is O.K. People really don't understand what is happening.''
 As critical as Mr. Wennemer is of Germany, he is even more troubled by the United States. Continental has suffered heavy losses in its passenger car tire business there. And it is burdened by some of the same pension fund liabilities and other legacy costs as Delphi.
 ''Thank God we are smaller than Delphi,'' he said. ''All our pension funds are fully funded.''
 Continental's labor relations in the United States make those in Germany look chummy. It has warned it might shut its plant in Charlotte, he said, because the costs there are 30 percent higher than in Western Europe. And it has ceased production at a tire factory in Kentucky.
 Costly product-liability lawsuits and a lack of innovation are added burdens in the United States, Mr. Wennemer said.
 Only 10 percent of American cars are equipped with antirollover technology, compared with 60 percent in Germany, although the Americans are putting it into new sport utility vehicles as a standard feature. That has propelled sales of Continental's electronic stability control, or E.S.C.
 ''With one less CD player in the car and more E.S.C.,'' he said, ''we might have several thousand fewer people killed on the roads.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Runaway costs are choking the United States auto industry, says Manfred Wennemer of Continental. (Photo by Hans Rudolf Oeser for The New York Times)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); TIRE MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); AUCTIONS (69%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%) Automobiles; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Factories and Industrial Plants ; International Trade and World Market; Sales; Automobiles; Fringe Benefits; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining)

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL AG (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Continental Ag

TICKER: CON (FRA) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (92%); SIC7539 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (92%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MANFRED WENNEMER (90%) Manfred Wennemer; Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (95%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); HUNGARY (70%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (67%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Germany

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



492 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: To Restore Or Reinvent?

BYLINE: By BRADFORD McKEE

 BODY:
FOR thousands of Mississippi Gulf Coast residents, rebuilding their broken homes after Hurricane Katrina may come down to a character issue.
 After living in tents and trailers, and negotiating the riddles of insurance and federal aid, many homeowners in the coming months will face questions of how exactly to reassemble houses of a certain historic vintage, like shotgun houses and Creole cottages. They are about to get some free design advice, whether they ask for it or not.
Next week, the Commission on Recovery, Rebuilding and Renewal, which was organized by the Mississippi governor, Haley Barbour, will begin giving away free copies of ''A Pattern Book for Gulf Coast Neighborhoods.'' 
 The 72-page pattern book details the basic features of traditional houses and, starting with a letter from Governor Barbour himself, strongly urges people to replicate them as closely as possible as they rebuild. 
 The book is a result of planning efforts in the region by a politically well-connected group of designers known as the Congress for New Urbanism, which advocates old-fashioned ways of building houses, neighborhoods and towns. Since its founding in 1993, the group, which has about 2,000 members, has courted controversy for rejecting contemporary architectural ideas in favor of historicism, an approach critics have derided as a form of nostalgia. 
 David Buege, an architecture professor at Mississippi State University, said he is dismayed by the dominance of New Urbanist maxims in official efforts to rebuild. ''It troubles me that we have no credible proponents for urban forms that will have a longer useful life and that will be more deeply satisfying than New Urbanism,'' he said. 
 Marlon Blackwell, an architect and professor at the University of Arkansas, objected to what he called the New Urbanists' singular focus on historicist designs as they try to rebuild the region. ''It uses historicism as a way to validate a kind of moralistic take on architecture,'' Mr. Blackwell said. ''I see it as a bit of a scourge.''
 The pattern book resulted from elaborate planning workshops held by the commission in October to help reconstruct streets, houses and public buildings in 11 towns that were destroyed along the coast. Detailed proposals are scheduled for public review beginning Nov. 30. 
 With a first printing of 21,000 copies, the commission intends to offer the book at strategic locations like Home Depot stores and building supply centers in an effort to ''rebuild the Coast in a time-honored way,'' as Governor Barbour writes in the foreword. In the coming months, the book may also be inserted in local newspapers.
 The cost of the book, like the commission's budget, is paid for by donations from the Knight Foundation and Jim Barksdale, the former chief executive of Netscape, who now serves as chairman of the governor's commission.
 The pattern book, and the new plans for towns, are ''just the beginning,'' Mr. Barksdale said. ''Everything for the first mile inland was shut down and destroyed, so it's going to take us a long time. House building will be our largest industry, with 50,000 units to replace.''
 The book bears the Mississippi state seal, but does not set out rules or regulations with the force of law. Rather, it describes ''appropriate'' and ''acceptable'' ways to rebuild houses in a traditional mode -- down to window details. Yet even preservation advocates expect the pattern book's design ideals to clash with the realities of rebuilding.
 David Preziosi, director of the Mississippi Heritage Trust, in Jackson, which is trying to save historic sites, said: ''You can give people ideas and suggestions, but it's all going to come down to what it's going to cost.''
 For homeowners, following the pattern book's specifications could add ''from zero percent to 20 percent'' to rebuilding costs, said Rob Robinson, its principal author and an architect at Urban Design Associates, a Pittsburgh firm. In October, Mr. Robinson was one of about 200 designers from around the nation who mobilized throughout the Mississippi coastal towns, from Waveland in the west to Pascagoula in the east, to begin an orderly planning effort for reconstruction. 
 Mr. Robinson said the book is written for the thousands of people whose damaged properties will most likely not fall under a large reconstruction effort coordinated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
 ''We did it to sort of aim at the average guy who's not part of any of the big policy deals,'' he said. ''For all the people who are left on their own to rebuild and make do with what they have.''
 Given the urgency of rebuilding and the delays homeowners have experienced in filing insurance claims, Mr. Robinson said, most design decisions about rebuilding are likely to be made ''at the Home Depot window.''
 Mr. Robinson said he has anticipated criticism of the effort as stuck in the past. Critics insist that building in traditional ways is ''a Disney idea,'' he said, ''rather than a language, like cooking, that is part of a cultural heritage.''
 Among homeowners who survived the hurricane, however, once federal officials finally determine where they can and cannot build according to new flood maps, the first concern will probably be forestalling future losses, rather than the prescriptions of a pattern book.
 Allison Rouse, 29, an architecture intern who lost the Victorian house that her great-grandfather built in Gulfport in 1907, said that she expects that most people in the region will not spend a great deal extra to revive the ornamental details of their old houses. ''People love to pinch pennies down here,'' Mrs. Rouse said. ''They love quick and dirty construction over quality, and that's just the way things are.''
 Mrs. Rouse added that as she begins to design a new house herself, she does not plan a verbatim reproduction of her former house. ''I'm going out of the box,'' she said. ''I'm hoping to make a statement. It's going to be a fortress, because I don't ever want it to wash away again.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BY THE NUMBERS -- A new manual urges Mississippians to rebuild in historic styles. Above, proportions for suburbia. (pg. F1)
 RULES OF RESTORATION -- The pattern book specifies ''acceptable'' forms of rebuilding, right down to details for windows and shutters, above. (pg. F2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CITIES (87%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HURRICANES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); EXECUTIVES (50%) 

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: MISSISSIPPI STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (82%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (82%)

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (78%) Bradford Mckee

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



493 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: In Utah, Trying to Undo a Federal Claim Bit by Bit

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: KANAB, Utah 

 BODY:
Nine winters have whitened the red cliffs of southern Utah since President Bill Clinton wrapped new protections around them. But time has not soothe the pockets of anger here in Kane County, where some people feel that Mr. Clinton did not so much give Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument to the nation as take it away from them.
 Local leaders want to take the monument back, if not all at once, bit by bit.
 Kane County's commissioners are in a land war with the government, claiming ownership of hundreds of miles of dirt roads, dry washes and riverbeds on the 1.7 million-acre monument and adjoining federal lands. The more vestigial rights-of-way they own, the commissioners believe, the more they can control what happens on the land around them. 
 In addition to filing lawsuits and applying political pressure, they have graded roads and put up fiberglass signposts, inviting all-terrain vehicles onto federal lands. 
 The explosion in the use of those vehicles, whether motorized dirt bikes or four-wheelers, has left its echoes and tracks on a landscape where only people, horses and burros went before. Such trails strengthen the local claims to roads, whose very existence may be disputed by others. 
 Kane County, which borders Arizona, generally wants to encourage local people and tourists who bring the vehicles because tourism is the core of the economy, while the federal government is concerned that excessive use of the vehicles could permanently mar the landscape that it seeks to preserve. 
 The Kane County struggle blends a Civil War-era question -- who owns the roads that crisscross federal lands from Montana to Arizona -- and the newer issue of access to the backcountry by all-terrain vehicles, or A.T.V.'s.
 ''Together, the two form a much broader issue than they do separately,'' said Dave Hunsaker, the manager of the monument. 
 ''The increase in A.T.V.'s has been nothing short of phenomenal, particularly in Utah,'' Mr. Hunsaker added. ''It poses a whole new set of challenges.'' 
 Environmental groups have compiled reams of evidence of the damage the vehicles' deep tire treads do to fragile soils; they fear that as A.T.V.'s churn up the landscape, the damage could be widespread. 
 ''By having an explosive amount of off-road vehicles on the ground, wildlife habitat could be fragmented, cultural artifacts could be ruined, visitors expecting quiet scenery could be disrupted,'' said Kristin Brendel, a lawyer for the Wilderness Society.
 Heidi McIntosh of the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance added, ''The issue is not access but excess.''
 The Kane County confrontation is playing out on several stages. Two lawsuits have recently been filed in Salt Lake City, and other legal skirmishes continue. 
 In early November, the county commissioners sued the Bureau of Land Management over its decisions about what vehicles can be used at the monument. In Salt Lake City, environmental groups sued Kane County for an unconstitutional appropriation of federal land. 
 In Washington, a Democratic senator had held up the nomination for the No. 2 post at the Interior Department over the Kane County dispute. The senator, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, said he would not let the nomination come up for a vote until he had assurances that the department was not letting Kane County ride roughshod over federal lands.
 In a letter sent after meeting with the senator last week, Secretary of the Interior Gale A. Norton said the department would start formal consultations with Kane County on Nov. 30 over the roads' ownership and their appropriate use.
 Consultations have not always been Kane County's style. ''When negotiations don't work, we take action,'' said Mark Habbeshaw, a county commissioner. 
 In August 2003, Mr. Habbeshaw went to the monument and ripped out 31 fiberglass stakes with federal signs. Since then, the county has set up more than 200 of its own stakes within the monument and nearby. 
 In some places, the federal stakes stand side by side with the county stakes. The Bureau of Land Management signs say ''No Vehicles.'' The county signs bear icons of riders on four-wheelers, inviting them in. 
 Mr. Hunsaker, the monument director, said in a recent interview that the federal land bureau had left 600 miles of trails open for all-terrain vehicles. But the county's claims exceed 1,000 miles, he said. Under state law, roads eligible for county ownership must have existed since 1966.
 In a recent interview, Mr. Habbeshaw outlined his approach. ''If we devise a strategy of acting like these roads are ours,'' he said, ''and we stay within the law, they will have a hard time going after us.'' 
 The county is taking out legal advertisements in the local weekly newspaper inviting people to suggest the closing of any route to all-terrain vehicles. In effect, Mr. Habbeshaw is asking Mr. Hunsaker to acknowledge the county's sovereignty over the disputed routes.
 A former Las Vegas police detective who has lived in town less than a decade, Mr. Habbeshaw is leading the charge for local families, many of whose ancestors arrived with the original Mormon pioneers. The federal lands where they ran their cows or farmed or mined felt in many ways like their own.
 ''I was born and raised here; my ancestors settled here and I had family in ranching at the time I was growing up,'' said Terril Honey, who manages Honey's Jubilee, a supermarket. ''A lot of what I feel is that our local residents who live off the land and have made good use of it -- for timber, for manufacturing, for mining -- have been cut out.'' 
 Mr. Habbeshaw went further. ''I think the designation of the Grand Staircase was an abuse'' of federal law, he said.
 Some residents, newcomers in particular, are less enthusiastic about the county's approach. The town blends the spiritual descendants of Brigham Young, the Mormon pioneer leader, and the spiritual descendants of Edward Abbey, the fervent environmental writer who set a novel in Kane County. 
 The Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, or SUWA, ran an advertisement criticizing the county commissioners and all-terrain vehicles in the county's weekly newspaper.
 Some of the response was vitriolic. ''The self-appointed aristocrats at SUWA, in their great arrogance, have decided 'We the People' can't be trusted to govern ourselves,'' wrote Arnold M. Studebaker.
 On a ranch outside town, Ron Smith and his wife, who manage their ranch as a wildlife preserve, found that siding with the federal government was a risky business. 
 In the late 1990's, before Mr. Habbeshaw was elected, Mr. Smith wrote a letter to the federal land bureau suggesting that a road the county claimed had existed before 1966 had actually just been constructed. The manzanita leaves under the overturned rocks, he said, are still green.
 A few months later, Mr. Smith and his wife returned from a vacation to find the gate to their road unlocked and a road grader on their land. After many inquiries, they said, they discovered that the county was claiming their road under the same law that underpins its claims on federal lands. After two years in court, the county backed off its claim.
 Mr. Smith, a former raft guide on the Colorado River, was one of the first people in the region to own a four-wheel all-terrain vehicle, which he built with his own hands. 
 Today, he said, hundreds of A.T.V. owners ''want to be able to use the land.''
 ''But it's abuse, not use,'' he said, adding, ''Once they're running all over the land, it will never be the same again.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 7, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 24 about efforts by Kane County, Utah, to claim roads under federal control at the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument and encourage the use of recreational vehicles there referred incorrectly to Kristin Brendel of the Wilderness Society, who said the vehicles could cause widespread damage. She is not a lawyer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some riders of all-terrain vehicles raced earlier this month in legal areas in the Coral Pin San Dunes State Park near Kanab, Utah.
 County and federal signs in Kane County, Utah, give riders of all-terrain vehicles riders conflicting messages as to whether they are welcome. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Public Lands''Most of the land in Utah is managed by the Bureau of Land Management, the Forest Service and the National Park Service.Map of Utah highlighting Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument and Federal lands excluding military and tribal lands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (75%); TIRES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); WILDLIFE (71%); LAWYERS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (59%); BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (59%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%) Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Utah; Kane County (Utah); Grand Staircase-Escalante Monument

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2005



494 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Even a Little Space Can Hold an Abundance of Ideas 

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
These days, the New York art world resembles the New York art world on speed, what with art fair mania, the galloping market, Chelsea's proliferating galleries and the combustion of spotlight-seeking art-school graduates and heat-seeking dealers and collectors. The gold-rush, land-grab atmosphere is creating a lot of end-time fretting: the fairs are bad, art objects are corrupt, art schools are complicit, Chelsea is deadly, blah, blah, blah.
 Whatever. Part of this moment's strange yet undeniable vitality is the revival of several of Lower Manhattan's more venerable nonprofit alternative spaces.
Whether because of changes in staff or in programs, rejuvenated boards or the economic bubble, they are in motion as they have not been in years. 
 You can feel the resurgence at the Kitchen, under its new director, Debra Singer, and at Artists Space, where ''Empty Space With Exciting Events,'' a monthlong performance series, is riding on the excitement generated by Peforma 05, New York's first, largely amazing biennial of new visual performance art. You can also feel it at Art in General, under Holly Block, in a new program of artist commissions. In addition, the Dia Center for the Arts is building a new home in the West Village. And the Drawing Center should have extra energy now, after the demise of its harebrained scheme to relocate to ground zero. (File that one under What Were They Thinking?)
 Among all these stirrings, White Columns, now 35 years old, is the most fully awake. Its reanimator is Matthew Higgs, 41, an English artist and curator who took over as director and chief curator last fall after curatorial stints in San Francisco and London.
 The current crop of exhibitions and mini-exhibitions orchestrated by Mr. Higgs and his small, dedicated staff reveals an institution that is rethinking itself while, and by, operating on all cylinders -- intellectual, spatial and aesthetic.
 Mr. Higgs might be described as a visionary micro-manager, or perhaps the art world's first bonsai curator. Cultivating every square and cubic inch of available exhibition space, he has embraced a concept long revered in Japan: almost no space can still be space enough.
 For example, the fancy 4-by-6-foot bulletin board hard by the entrance is introducing Simon Evans, an English skateboarder who morphed into a writer and then an exceedingly promising self-taught artist. On view is an array of tiny pages from Mr. Evans's notebooks, rife with sketches, wordplay and humor. Even smaller amounts of wall space are devoted to ongoing projects by Aleksandra Mir and Lutz Bacher.
 Mr. Higgs's spatial frugality continues in ''Open Walls,'' the relatively spacious centerpiece in which he awarded each of six emerging artists a wall to use as desired. With three works, Tariq Alvi, a collagist and painter based in London and the Netherlands, opts for a sparseness befitting his surgical parsing and recycling of price stickers, a Cingular brochure and, in the case of the wheelchair on the ceiling, pornographic images. Robin Graubard has mounted a helter-skelter, 20-year retrospective of images ranging from China to the East Village club scene, and ever alert to the darker side of life and youth culture. Pam Servatius shows a diverting DVD of a brief ferry ride in which everything moves except the flagpole located aft. Christopher Russell, an artist and maverick publisher, captures subtle collisions between nature and culture in large color photographs, most memorably with a dirt-flecked advertisement for men's undershorts.
 Colter Jacobsen, a young San Francisco artist, has mounted what is tantamount to his first solo show anywhere with a dense meditation on drawing, paper, images, time and memory. It encompasses found cardboard signs and labels, a clock, photographs and drawings based on photographs, including erotic images of men wearing only watches (each of which was worked on for exactly 60 minutes). There may be a homoerotic subtext to Mr. Jacobsen's preference for matched sets, most notably in a series of pairs of nearly identical drawings; it turns out that one of each duo was drawn entirely from memory, within 24 hours after the first.
 Equally ambitious is ''A Thousand and One Nights of the Roundtable of Nottingham,'' a video installation by Alexandre Singh, a British artist currently based in New York. Mr. Singh has erected, but not exactly built, a large house-of-cards structure out of building materials, tools and toolboxes, CD players and large bottles of soda. Sitting on this aggregate, you can listen to a fantastical narrative that conflates East and West, contemporary and ancient, Yves Klein and Kurt Schwitters (and Schwitters's golem look-alike) and mentions most of the materials incorporated in the piece. A projected image of a white brick wall changes color in sync with the artist's soothing voiceover. 
 The three ancillary shows all reward long visits. In one of the small White Rooms, a sixtysomething Dutch artist named Jack Jaeger is making his New York debut, showing lamps and wall pieces assembled from cardlike images that mix photography, design, sculpture and wry visual jokes.
 In the other White Room, Elysia Borowy-Reeder, Scott Reeder and Tyson Reeder of the General Store in Milwaukee have organized ''The Early Show,'' an outstanding, densely packed review of sundry childhood, teenage and first works by more than 40 contemporary artists. Containing drawings, paintings, sculptures and a couple of videos, the show reveals that the mature styles of artists like Elizabeth Peyton, Cecily Brown, Laura Owens, Katherine Bernhardt, Rob Pruitt, Cory and Jaime Arcangel and Lane Twitchell were implicit if not declared outright in their under-age art. This show should be expanded and sent on the road immediately.
 Finally, the smallest gallery, dedicated to what Mr. Higgs calls Other People's Projects, is showing the lustrous little color photographs that a bird-lover named Alba Ballard started making in the late 1960's. The images resurfaced in 1992, through a chain of events involving Elizabeth Taylor, her daughter Liza Todd Tivey and Ms. Tivey's friend the New York photographer Arne Svenson, who published a book on the Ballard photographs last spring. Dressing her parrots in exquisitely detailed costumes (often including hands), and using sets and props built by her husband (who also took the photographs), Mrs. Ballard restaged scenes from all walks of life, history and popular culture. General Patton, Sonny and Cher, Bonnie and Clyde, and Sherlock Holmes are among the many people who make avian appearances. There is also a short film. Go, look, savor. You may initially be startled, even a little shocked, but chances are you will be won over by these divinely uproarious images. Further revisions of the history of set-up photography are in order. 
 Mr. Higgs's program may be more devoted to art objects than those at other alternative spaces around town, but this devotion is transforming from within the idea of the White Cube and how much it can comfortably hold. He has done this partly by subjecting the curatorial discipline to the aesthetic (and economy) of collage that is so prevalent in contemporary art. His exhibitions bring into spark-creating proximity artworks that come, literally, from all over. Together, they vividly define art as an irrepressible, unpredictable force that we can never fully know, while also providing lots of incentives to never stop trying.

The exhibitions continue through Dec. 3 at White Columns, 320 West 13th Street (entrance on Horatio Street), West Village, (212) 924-4212.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Colter Jacobsen's wall full of drawings and found materials. (Photo by Courtesy of White Columns, New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); SKATEBOARDING (74%); RELOCATIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



495 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 15232 words

HEADLINE: The Listings Nov. 25 - Dec. 1

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. 
 * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.

Previews and Openings

'MISS WITHERSPOON' Opens Tuesday. Veronica commits suicide and refuses to be reincarnated in Christopher Durang's new comedy (1:20). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (212) 279-4200. 


'SUPER VISION' Opens Tuesday. Closes Saturday. The Builders Association's high-tech exploration of identity theft and ''data bodies'' blurs the lines between film and theater (1:10). Brooklyn Academy of Music's Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100.

'PETER PAN' Opens Wednesday. Closes December 30. Eternally young Cathy Rigby, who has played Captain Hook's nemesis off and on since 1989, flies again in the New York leg of her farewell tour (2:00). The Theater at Madison Square Garden, 4 Penn Plaza, (212) 307-7171.

'THE COLOR PURPLE' Opens Thursday. Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prizewinning book has become the basis for the first musical co-produced by Oprah Winfrey (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200.

'ABIGAIL'S PARTY' Opens Thursday. The New Group's production of Mike Leigh's comedy about a dinner party gone horribly wrong stars Jennifer Jason Leigh (2:15). Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'IN THE CONTINUUM' Opens Thursday. After receiving positive reviews, this two-person, many character show about HIV/AIDS among African and African-American women moves to a new theater (1:30). Perry Street Theater, 31 Perry Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 868-4444.

'APPARITION' Previews start Monday. Opens Dec. 4. Anne Washburn's creepy new mystery-drama features five ghost stories with hints of murder, demons and other things that go bump in the night (1:20). Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.

'CHITA RIVERA: THE DANCER'S LIFE' Opens Dec. 11. The star of ''Chicago'' and ''West Side Story'' relives many of her (and Broadway's) greatest moments, with the help of a book by Terrence McNally (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'CELEBRATION' and 'THE ROOM' Opens Dec. 5. Two short plays from opposite ends of Harold Pinter's distinguished career (1:45). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200.

'DOG SEES GOD: CONFESSIONS OF A TEENAGE BLOCKHEAD' Previews start Thursday. Opens Dec. 15. The Peanuts gang finally grows up in this parody of Charles Schulz's comic strip. Eddie Kaye Thomas (''American Pie'') plays the hapless Charlie Brown (1:30). Century Center for the Performing Arts, 111 East 15th Street, Flatiron District, Manhattan (212) 239-6200.

'KLONSKY & SCHWARTZ' Previews start Monday. Opens Dec. 5. A new play by Romulus Linney about the final years in the life of the mercurial New York poet Delmore Schwartz (1:30). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101.

'THE OTHER SIDE' Opens Dec. 13. A new work by Ariel Dorfman (''Death and the Maiden'') about a couple living in a war-torn country waiting for their 15-year-old son to return home. Rosemary Harris and John Cullum star (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club, City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212.

'ROPE' Opens Dec. 4. The Drama Dept. and the Zipper Theater present a revival of Patrick Hamilton's drama inspired by the Leopold and Loeb murder case. David Warren directs (2:05). The Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200.

'TIGHT EMBRACE' Opens Dec. 6. Two kidnapped women struggle to survive in this new play about political violence by Jorge Ignacio Cortinas (2:00). Intar Theater at the Kirk on Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'A TOUCH OF THE POET' Opens Dec. 8. Gabriel Byrne, last on Broadway in ''A Moon for the Misbegotten,'' stars as an Irish tavern owner whose daughter falls in love with a wealthy American in one of Eugene O'Neill's last plays. Doug Hughes directs (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, Manhattan, (212) 719-1300.

'THE TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL' Opens Dec. 4. A revival of Horton Foote's drama about a woman longing to return to her childhood home. Directed by the veteran actor Harris Yulin (2:15). Signature Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529.

Broadway

'ABSURD PERSON SINGULAR' An uninspired revival of Alan Ayckbourn's classic farce of marital misery and Christmas cheerlessness, directed by John Tillinger. The largely merely serviceable cast includes Paxton Whithead, Mireille Enos and the wonderful Deborah Rush, who sidesteps the usual cliches of playing drunk in splendid comic style (2:30). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley).

'CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG' The playthings are the thing in this lavish windup music box of a show: windmills, Rube Goldberg-esque machines and the show's title character, a flying car. It's like spending two and a half hours in the Times Square branch of Toys ''R'' Us (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Cherry Jones), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Brian F. O'Byrne), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'IN MY LIFE' Joseph Brooks's whimsical musical about heaven and earth works grotesquely hard to disguise its conventional heart. Mostly, it's like drowning in a singing sea of syrup (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped biomusical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a storyline poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). The August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'LATINOLOGUES' Created and written by Rick Najera and directed by Cheech Marin, long since de-Chonged, this is a series of loosely linked monologues delivered in character by Mr. Najera and three other talented Latino performers. Mr. Najera and his compadres can be skillful slingers of one-liners, but the characters cooked up to transmit them are neither fresh nor fully realized. In contrast to the colorfully individualized portraits in John Leguizamo's solo shows, the men and women of ''Latinologues'' are composites of worn, easy stereotypes (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'A NAKED GIRL ON THE APPIAN WAY' Could it be that the exhaustingly prolific Richard Greenberg has been even busier than anyone suspected? This clunky farce about the limits of liberalism, directed by Doug Hughes and starring a miscast Richard Thomas and Jill Clayburgh, suggests that Mr. Greenberg has been moonlighting as a gag writer for sitcoms and is now recycling his discarded one-liners (1:45). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

'THE ODD COUPLE' Odd is not the word for this couple. How could an adjective suggesting strangeness or surprise apply to a production so calculatedly devoted to the known, the cozy, the conventional? As the title characters in Neil Simon's 1965 comedy, directed as if to a metronome by Joe Mantello, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick reprise their star performances from ''The Producers,'' and it's not a natural fit. Don't even consider killing yourself because the show is already sold out (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SEASCAPE' While George Grizzard sounds affecting depths in this audience-friendly revival of Edward Albee's 1975 Pulitzer Prize winner, Mark Lamos's production is most notable for being likable and forgettable, traits seldom associated with Albee plays. The ever-vital Frances Sternhagen plays life-affirming wife to Mr. Grizzard's curmudgeonly husband, while Frederick Weller and the wonderful Elizabeth Marvel are the sea creatures who confront the old couple one afternoon at the beach (1:45). Lincoln Center Theater, at the Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone, who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'SWEET CHARITY' This revival of the 1966 musical never achieves more than a low-grade fever when what's wanted is that old steam heat. In the title role of the hopeful dance-hall hostess, the appealing but underequipped Christina Applegate is less a shopworn angel than a merry cherub (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'SOUVENIR' Stephen Temperley's sweet, long love letter of a play celebrates the unlikely career of Florence Foster Jenkins, a notoriously tone-deaf soprano socialite. It's a show that could easily have been pure camp and at over two hours, it still wears thin. But with Vivian Matalon directing the redoubtable Judy Kaye as Mrs. Jenkins, and Donald Corren as her accompanist, the play's investigative empathy turns the first act into unexpectedly gentle, affecting comedy (2:15). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around. (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

Off Broadway

'ALMOST HEAVEN: SONGS OF JOHN DENVER' Almost 30 of John Denver's songs are ''rediscovered and reinvented,'' as the show's publicity material says, but not generally improved upon. But Nicholas Rodriguez hits the high notes of ''Calypso'' spectacularly (2:00). Promenade Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200.(Neil Genzlinger)

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 4, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'BINGO' Play bingo, munch on popcorn and watch accomplished actors freshen up a stale musical about game night (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Jason Zinoman)

'DRUMSTRUCK' This noisy novelty is a mixed blessing. Providing a two-foot drum on every seat, it offers an opportunity to exorcise aggressions by delivering a good beating, and, on a slightly more elevated level, it presents a superficial introduction to African culture, lessons in drumming and 90 minutes of nonstop music, song and dancing by a good-natured cast (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'FIVE COURSE LOVE' This musical is merely pleasantly fluffy, and sometimes offensive, but Heather Ayers may make a star vehicle out of it, thanks to an energetic, versatile performance in five roles. She, John Bolton and Jeff Gurner search for love in five restaurants, with a too-generous portion of bad accents and phallic jokes along the way (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100.(Genzlinger)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE GREAT AMERICAN TRAILER PARK MUSICAL' A terrific cast keeps the generator running in this bright but flimsy contraption. A few of David Nehls's dozen ditties raise a hearty chuckle, like the valedictory anthem in which the show's heroines collectively vow to ''make like a nail and press on.'' But Betsy Kelso's book all but dispenses with plot, and substitutes crude cartoons for characters (2:00). Dodger Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'HAMLET' Michael Cumpsty gives a forceful, intelligent reading of the title role in the Classic Stage Company's likably intimate production of Shakespeare's tale of doom-struck Danes. Brian Kulick's production is heavy on the directorial gimmickry (smell the spray paint! watch the set be shredded!), leaving psychology and philosophy to fend for themselves (2:30). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'HILDA' Marie Ndiaye's play is a psychodrama from which most of the psychology seems to have mysteriously evaporated, taking a lot of the drama with it. Ellen Karas stars as a bourgeois housewife whose obsession with her maid eventually unhinges her (1:20). Part of the Act French Festival. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'IN THE AIR' Historical melodrama about the 1918 flu epidemic is like a soft-focus film on the Lifetime channel (2:15). Theater 315, 315 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman)

'INFERTILITY' A harmless, insubstantial and highly amplified musical about the struggles of five people hoping to become parents (1:20). Dillon's, 245 West 54th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman)

'JUNIE B. JONES' A spirited entertainment (1:30). Theaterworks/NYC, at the Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200. (Van Gelder)

'MEDEA' The Jean Cocteau Repertory's cliche-ridden modern translation strains to be relevant (1:30). Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 the Bowery, near East Second Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman)

'MR. MARMALADE' A zany comedy by Noah Haidle about emotionally disturbed children. Yes, you read that right. Michael C. Hall of ''Six Feet Under'' plays the now-cuddly, now-abusive imaginary friend of a neglected 4-year-old. Unfortunately Mr. Haidle never truly capitalizes on his provocative conceit, choosing instead to draw us a scary but ultimately hollow cartoon (1:50). Roundabout Theater Company, Laura Pels Theater, at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Isherwood)

'ON SECOND AVENUE' This genial show by the Folksbiene Yiddish Theater, celebrating Second Avenue's theatrical heyday, somehow manages to be both a perfect ensemble production and a star vehicle for Mike Burstyn. The production, first seen last March and April, is in its second go-round (2:00). J.C.C. in Manhattan, 334 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Genzlinger)

* 'ORSON'S SHADOW' Austin Pendleton's play, about a 1960 production of Ionesco's ''Rhinoceros,'' which was directed by Orson Welles and starred Laurence Olivier, is a sharp-witted but tenderhearted backstage comedy about the thin skins, inflamed nerves and rampaging egos that are the customary side effects when sensitivity meets success (2:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'RADIO CITY CHRISTMAS SPECTACULAR' It remains prime entertainment (1:30). Radio City Music Hall, 50th Street and Avenue of the Americas, Manhattan, (212) 307-1000. (Van Gelder)

'RFK' This solo show written and starring Jack Holmes is a reasonably accurate historical portrait, but the performance, unfortunately, lacks the charisma and charm that made the real Bobby Kennedy a star (1:35). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 253-9983. (Jonathan Kalb)

'THE RUBY SUNRISE' Rinne Groff's period drama explores the country's growing pains during the early years of television. Directed by the new Public Theater chief Oskar Eustis, the play casts glancing looks at a large subject, namely the country's failure to harness advances in technology to socially progressive ends. But it is essentially a deftly structured but heavy-treading drama about the dashed dreams and tarnished ideals of two generations of spirited Midwestern women (2:15). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SEE WHAT I WANNA TO SEE' A hot-and-cold chamber musical by Michael John LaChiusa, based on stories by Ryuonsoke Akutagawa, that considers the nature of truth and belief. The show's film-noir-style first half is more chilly than chilling. But its second act, set in the shadow of 9/11, throbs affectingly with a hunger for faith. With Idina Menzel and Marc Kudisch (2:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THIRD' Heidi is having hot flashes. In this thoughtful, seriously imbalanced comedy, Wendy Wasserstein takes her archetypal heroine (most famously embodied in 1988 in ''The Heidi Chronicles'') into the fog of menopausal, existential uncertainty. The wonderful but miscast Dianne Weist plays a feminist college professor forced to reconsider everything she stands for. Though Daniel Sullivan's staging is too easygoing to build tension, the play exhales a poignant air of autumnal rue (2:00). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'WAITING FOR GODOT' (2:30). In this solid production, it is Sam Coppola (Vladimir) and Joseph Ragno (Estragon) who are waiting for the world's most famous no-show. It's been 50 years since Samuel Beckett's play was first staged on Broadway, and the changes in the world since then give the never-changing world of Didi and Gogo some interesting new resonance. Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton,(212) 239-6200. (Genzlinger)

Off Off Broadway

'BELLY OF A DRUNKEN PIANO' In this splendidly imperfect cabaret, Stewart D'Arrietta howls and growls convincingly through Tom Waits's three-decade song catalog, backed by a snappy trio. His patter and his piano playing are variable, but Mr. D'Arrietta makes a genial tour guide through Mr. Waits's wee-hours world (1:45). Huron Club at SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212) 691-1555. (Rob Kendt)

'BIG APPLE CIRCUS -- GRANDMA GOES TO HOLLYWOOD' Long on sweetness, rich in color and highly tuneful, but short on eye-popping, cheer-igniting wows (2:10). Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center, Broadway and 63rd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Van Gelder)

'BROKEN JOURNEY' A gripping production of a modern-day rendering of ''Rashomon'' by a British poet and playwright who employs clever wordplay to define the characters and delve into their psyche. A solid cast manages to hold the tension taut for most of the 110 minutes. Theater Three, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Wilborn Hampton)

'PAUL ROBESON' Paul Robeson's voice remains his most enduring legacy, so it makes sense to cast Phillip Hayes Dean's play about him with an opera singer. Kevin Maynor, a resonant bass, gets some of the impact of Robeson's singing voice, but his monologue tends to blur together the many vignettes that Mr. Dean tried to cram into this rather simplistic reduction of a major figure. (The play originally ran on Broadway with James Earl Jones.) Robeson deserves better, but this is better than nothing (2:00). Henry Street Settlement's Abrons Arts Center/Recital Hall, 466 Grand Street, Lower East Side, (212) 279-4200.(Anne Midgette)

Long-Running Shows

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'FIDDLER ON THE ROOF' The Shtetl Land pavilion in the theme park called Broadway. With Rosie O'Donnell and Harvey Fierstein. (2:55). The Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MOVIN' OUT' The miracle dance musical that makes Billy Joel cool (2:00). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron District, (212) 307-4100.(Van Gelder)

* 'THOM PAIN (BASED ON NOTHING)' Is there such a thing as stand-up existentialism? If not, Will Eno has just invented it. Stand-up-style comic riffs and deadpan hipster banter keep interrupting the corrosively bleak narrative. Mr. Eno is a Samuel Beckett for the Jon Stewart generation (1:10). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron District, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'BEOWULF' Bob Flanagan's luminous puppets of lizards and fish are wonderful, but they are relatively tangential to a so-called rock opera that is not sure whether it wants to be a children's show or ''Jesus Christ Superstar,'' and fails at both. Humans who are less animate than the puppets try to sing their way through an uninspired enactment of this great epic (1:15). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, closing Sunday. ( Midgette)

'MARION BRIDGE' The Canadian playwright Daniel MacIvor takes a quiet, honest look at three sisters as they face their mother's death. It is well acted and well directed, if too predictable in spots (2:20). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, closing Sunday. ( Jefferson)

* 'A SOLDIER'S PLAY' This movingly acted revival of Charles Fuller's Pulitzer Prizewinning drama from 1981, directed by Jo Bonney and featuring Taye Diggs, uses the clean-lined conventions of murder mysteries to elicit unsettlingly blurred shades of racism, resentment and self-hatred (1:55). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, closing Sunday.(Brantley)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

* 'BEE SEASON' (PG-13, 104 minutes) A genuinely felt, finely made adaptation of the Myla Goldberg novel about an 11-year-old girl with an ineffable gift for summoning up perfectly strung-together words. With Richard Gere, Juliette Binoche, Max Minghella and the wonderful newcomer Flora Cross as the family nearly undone by that gift. (Manohla Dargis)

'BLACKMAIL BOY' (No rating, 100 minutes, in Greek) A doctor is sleeping with a younger man, who is having an affair with an older woman, and another character is having sex with her son-in-law. At times, Michalis Reppas and Thanassis Papathanasiou's film has the welcome feeling of farce, but mostly it just seems determined to shock. And to turn violent. (Anita Gates)

* 'BREAKFAST ON PLUTO' (R, 129 minutes) ''Candide'' meets ''Tom Jones'' in drag heaven might describe Neil Jordan's picaresque fairy tale about a foundling who becomes a transvestite in 1970's and 80's London against the backdrop of the Irish troubles. (Stephen Holden)

* 'CAPOTE' (R, 114 minutes) Philip Seymour Hoffman's portrayal of Truman Capote is a tour de force of psychological insight. Following the novelist as he works on the magazine assignment that will become ''In Cold Blood,'' the film raises intriguing questions about the ethics of writing. (A. O. Scott)

'CHICKEN LITTLE' (G, 80 minutes) The sky is falling! The sky is falling! Well, it's not as bad as that. Almost, though. (Scott)

'CLASSE TOUS RISQUES' (No rating, 103 minutes, in French and Italian) Claude Sautet's 1960 gangster melodrama was lost in the shuffle of the new wave; now it is back, in a restored print, with soulful, vivid performances by Lino Ventura and Jean-Paul Belmondo as a pair of honorable thieves on the run. (Scott)

* 'THE DYING GAUL' (R, 105 minutes) Craig Lucas's screen adaptation of his bitter Off Broadway revenge tragedy, is a sublimely acted film and a high point in the careers of its three stars, Campbell Scott, Patricia Clarkson and Peter Sarsgaard, who play a bisexual Hollywood studio executive, his wife and a young screenwriter. (Holden)

'GET RICH OR DIE TRYIN' ' (R, 134 minutes) This lumbering vehicle for the rap star 50 Cent blends gangster intrigue with follow-your-dream striving. The story is a mess, and the star is no actor, but a fine supporting cast and Jim Sheridan's warm-hearted direction make it watchable. (Scott)

* 'GOOD NIGHT, AND GOOD LUCK' (PG, 90 minutes) George Clooney, with impressive rigor and intelligence, examines the confrontation between the CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow (a superb David Strathairn) and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy (himself). Plunging you into a smoky, black-and-white world of political paranoia and commercial pressure, the film is both a history lesson and a passionate essay on power, responsibility and the ethics of journalism (Scott)

* 'HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE' (PG-13, 150 minutes) Childhood ends for the young wizard with the zigzag scar in the latest addition to the Potter saga, even as the director Mike Newell keeps its British eccentricity, fatalism and steady-on pluck irresistibly intact. (Dargis)

'JARHEAD' (R, 123 minutes) Sam Mendes's film about marines waiting for action in the first gulf war is often vivid and profane, like the Anthony Swofford memoir on which it is based, and some of the performances crackle with energy. But the film as a whole feels strangely detached and -- even more strangely, given its topical resonance -- irrelevant. (Scott)

'KISS KISS, BANG BANG' (R, 103 minutes) Clever and dumb at the same time, this hectic pastiche of Los Angeles. noir conventions offers opportunities for Robert Downey Jr., Val Kilmer and Michelle Monaghan to have a good time with hard-boiled dialogue, and the audience to have a few laughs watching them. The picture's self-conscious manipulations of tone and chronology might have seemed fresh and witty 10 years ago, but probably not even then. (Scott)

'NAKED IN ASHES' (No rating, 108 minutes) This documentary provides an intimate, yet ultimately unsatisfying glimpse into the everyday lives of several Indian yogis, the Hindu mystics who smear their bodies with ash, live in improvised dwellings on the margins of society, and subject their bodies to extreme ascetic. Paula Fouce has gained unprecedented access to her subjects, but her own admiration for them makes this documentary more heartfelt than it is rigorous. (Dana Stevens)

* 'PARADISE NOW' (PG-13, 90 minutes, in Arabic and Hebrew) This melodrama about two Palestinians, best friends from childhood, chosen to carry out a suicide bombing in Tel Aviv is a superior thriller whose shrewdly inserted plot twists and emotional wrinkles are calculated to put your heart in your throat and keep it there. (Holden)

* 'PRIDE & PREJUDICE' (PG, 128 minutes) In this sumptuous, extravagantly romantic adaptation of Jane Austen's 1813 novel, Keira Knightley's Elizabeth Bennet exudes a radiance that suffuses the movie. This is a banquet of high-end comfort food perfectly cooked and seasoned to Anglophilic tastes. (Holden)

'PRIVATE' (No rating, 90 minutes, in English, Hebrew and Arabic) This movie distills the Israeli-Palestinian conflict into a nightmarish microcosm when a midnight raid by Israeli soldiers on the house of a peaceful, well-educated Palestinian family turns their home into an occupied territory. (Holden)

* 'SHOPGIRL' (R, 107 minutes) This delicate, deceptively simple film, taken from Steve Martin's novella, spins perfect romance out of loneliness, compromise and the possibility of heartbreak. As a young retail clerk adrift in Los Angeles, Claire Danes gives a flawless performance, and Mr. Martin and Jason Schwartzman, as the very different men competing for her affection, bring gallantry, farce and sweetness to this funny, sad, insightful movie. (Scott)

'39 POUNDS OF LOVE' (No rating, 74 minutes, in English and Hebrew) Afflicted by a rare disease that keeps his weight at 39 pounds and allows him to move only one finger, the 34-year-old animator Ami Ankilewitz nevertheless dreams of riding a Harley-Davidson. In his lighthearted yet forthright documentary, ''39 Pounds of Love,'' the director Dani Menkin presents a bracingly honest portrait of a man refusing to be defined by the limitations of his body. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

'UNVEILED' (No rating, 97 minutes, in German and Farsi) Angelina Maccarone's film occasionally suffers from a self-conscious artiness, but at its center is an extraordinary performance by Jasmine Tabatabai as a young woman whose expectations from life have been lowered by a lifetime of systematic mistreatment, but who still holds out hope for the possibility of both justice and love. (Stevens)

'USHPIZIN' (PG-13, 91 minutes, in Hebrew) In this groundbreaking collaboration between secular and Orthodox Israelis, two roustabouts barge into the home of a Hasid and his wife and make comic trouble. (Holden)

'WALK THE LINE' (PG-13, 138 minutes) Johnny Cash gets the musical biopic treatment in this moderately entertaining, never quite convincing chronicle of his early years. Joaquin Phoenix, sweaty, inarticulate and intense as Cash, is upstaged by Reese Witherspoon, who tears into the role of June Carter (Cash's creative partner long before she became his second wife) with her usual charm, pluck and intelligence. (Scott)

* 'WALLACE & GROMIT: THE CURSE OF THE WERE-RABBIT' (G, 85 minutes) The stop-motion pooch and his cheese-loving master, back again at feature length. Silly and sublime. (Scott)

'ZATHURA: A SPACE ADVENTURE' (PG, 113 minutes) In this extraterrestrial fantasy, adapted from a Chris Van Allsburg story, a magical board game sends two squabbling young brothers into space to fend off invaders and learn the meaning of brotherhood. The movie is sweeter, gentler and more family-friendly than ''Jumanji,'' to which it is the unofficial sequel. (Holden)

Film Series

FOREVER GARBO: A RETROSPECTIVE (Through Dec. 17) The American-Scandinavian Foundation's program honoring Greta Garbo's centennial continues on Wednesday with ''Mata Hari'' (1931), in which Garbo plays the World War I spy. The film, which also stars Lionel Barrymore and Ramon Navarro, is best known for a famous dance sequence and Adrian's glamorous costumes. Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, between 37th and 38th Streets, (212) 879-9779; $8. (Gates)

FRANCOIS TRUFFAUT (Through Sunday) The IFC Center's Weekend Classics program concludes its Truffaut program this weekend with ''Confidentially Yours,'' the 1983 thriller, today and Sunday, and a marathon of the five Antoine Doinel films tomorrow. Jean-Pierre Leaud stars as Doinel, considered Truffaut's alter ego, in ''The 400 Blows'' (1959), ''Stolen Kisses'' (1968), ''Antoine and Colette'' (a 1962 short), ''Bed and Board'' (1970) and ''Love on the Run'' (1979). 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771; $10.75 ($25 for all five Doinel films). (Gates)

HARD QUESTIONS: THE FILMS OF AMOS GITAI. (Through Dec. 8) The Film Society of Lincoln Center's program of work by Mr. Gitai, the Israeli filmmaker, begins on Wednesday with four features. ''Kadosh'' (1999) is about two couples in an ultra-orthodox Jerusalem neighborhood. ''Yom Yom'' (1998) is a dark comedy about a Haifa man who is half-Arab and half-Jewish. ''Kippur'' (2000) is set during the 1973 Yom Kippur War. And Mr. Gitai will introduce his newest film, ''Free Zone'' (2005), a drama starring Natalie Portman and Hanna Laslo. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, (212) 875-5600; $10. (Gates)

POETRY AND RIGOR: THE FILMS OF GIANNI AMELIO (Through Wednesday) The Museum of Modern Art and Cinecitta Holding's exhibition concludes with a variety of Amelio films including ''Blow to the Heart'' (1982), about a college professor whose son is spying on him; ''The End of the Game'' (1970), about a reform-school boy and a television reporter; and ''Open Doors'' (1990), about an old-guard judge versus a fascist regime. 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

Pop
Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

ASHLEE SIMPSON (Sunday) With her engaging demeanor and rock-star pluck, Ashlee Simpson is, despite her early lip-synching woes, fast leaving her sister Jessica behind in the tabloids. As a vocalist, Ashlee can pout, howl and sass it up, which allows her a dimension beyond the spun sugar of teenage pop. 7 p.m., North Fork Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road, Westbury, N.Y., (516) 334-0800; $39.50. (Laura Sinagra)

BON JOVI (Monday and Tuesday) Jon Bon Jovi's band conquered the airwaves in the 1980's and 90's by sticking together everything catchy about 70's rock: Bruce Springsteen's earnestness, Led Zeppelin's crunch, Boston's harmonies and lyrics that paint romance as nothing less than a titanic adventure. 7:30 p.m., Madison Square Garden, 33rd Street and Seventh Avenue, Manhattan, (212) 465-6741; $49.50 to $99.50. (Jon Pareles)

BRIGHT EYES, FEIST, MAGIC NUMBERS (Tonight and tomorrow) The singer-songwriter Conor Oberst is still perhaps too jittery to resonate as a New Dylan to Old Dylan fans. But his emphatic wisdom, candid political indignance and nuanced wine-soaked laments make him one of the best songwriters of his generation. The warm-voiced Feist is a collaborator of the electroclash queen Peaches and the indie collective Broken Social Scene. Her best songs are quirky, plucked jazz numbers that make her sound like a hipper Norah Jones. London's Magic Numbers, with their diffuse take on 60's harmonies, round out the bill. 8 p.m., Landmark Loews Theater, 54 Journal Square, Jersey City,(866) 468-7619; $25. (Sinagra)

MARSHALL CRENSHAW (Sunday) Marshall Crenshaw's songs seem to roll off the guitar in a casual blend of pre-1970's styles -- folk-rock, surf-rock, country and above all, the Beatles -- that put melody first. With his winsome tenor, he delves into the ways love goes right and goes wrong, from distant yearning to the aftermath of infidelity, hiding turmoil within the chiming tunes. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Avenue, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $20. (Pareles)

RAY DAVIES (Monday) The Kinks singer Ray Davies performs here in connection with a couple of minireleases, one a benefit five-song EP pegged to Thanksgiving Day, reportedly inspired by recent attempts to better understand the United States. One assumes he will also play classics from his band's catalog and tell some stories, too. 8 p.m., Supper Club, 240 West 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 921-1940; $65. (Sinagra)

ROBERTA FLACK (Tomorrow) Behind the gentle, tremulous voice that confided hits like ''The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face'' is long knowledge of the continuum of blues, gospel, soul and jazz. Ms. Flack can use just a touch of rawness to make her songs hit home. 8 p.m., B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $65. (Pareles)

ARLO GUTHRIE (Tomorrow) Forty years after releasing ''Alice's Restaurant,'' this folk-music scion is still revising his songs to tweak the powers that be. He performs his populist story-album, which begins with ''Now it all started two Thanksgivings ago,'' over this holiday weekend. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 501-1390; $38 to $55. (Sinagra)

HOT 97 PRESENTS DIP SET (Tonight) Hot 97 D.J.'s Funkmaster Flex and Angie Martinez celebrate the refurbishment of the Bronx's opulent Paradise Theater with a show featuring members of the Harlem rap crew Dip Set: Juelz Santana (''There It Go (The Whistle Song)'' ) and the rappers Jim Jones and Cam'ron. 10 p.m., Paradise Theater, 2403 Grand Concourse, Bronx, ticketmaster.com; $30. (Sinagra)

HOT TUNA (Tomorrow) The guitarist Jorma Kaukonen and the bassist Jack Casady started Hot Tuna as a side project from Jefferson Airplane, but it has now long outlasted the original band. Mr. Kaukonen plays spiky, fingerpicked blues that calmly contemplate death and loss, still harking back to the Rev. Gary Davis, with Mr. Casady's bass shadowing him from below. 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 496-7070; $38.50 to $48.50. (Pareles)

B. B. KING (Sunday through Tuesday) The great bluesman B. B. King and his latest guitar called Lucille can, on a good night, summon all the tribulation and joy and resilience of the blues. 8 p.m., B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $80 in advance (sold out), $85 at the door. (Pareles)

KORN (Tuesday) This band helped popularize a brand of late-90's rock that featured chunky chords and angry raps about childhood mistreatment and the adult fallout. Korn's latest video humorously features rappers Lil Jon, Snoop Dog, Xzibit and David Banner pretending to be the band. 8 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 564-4882; $37 in advance, $42 at the door. (Sinagra)

THE MENDOZA LINE (Tomorrow) This local band has a knack for deceptively lilting songs with cutting lyrics about betrayal, jealousy and disappointment. Its best choruses turn on phrases like ''It will be the same without you.'' 4 p.m., Sound Fix Records, 110 Bedford Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 388-8090; free. (Sinagra)

METERS (Tonight) Hurricane Katrina could not drown New Orleans syncopation. It lives on with the reunion of the Meters, the definitive New Orleans funk band since 1967. It has backed others, but saved its snappiest, trickiest grooves for its own tracks. With Art Neville on keyboards, George Porter Jr. on bass, Leo Nocentelli on guitar and Joseph Zigaboo Modeliste on drums, they open up nooks and crannies of the beat to carry every hip into irresistible motion. 8 p.m., Nokia Theater Times Square, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com, (212) 307-7171; $50. (Pareles)

MIGHTY SPARROW (Sunday) The songwriter and singer who revolutionized calypso after World War II still has sly rhymes and ebullient dance moves, and he is still coming up with up-to-the-minute topical songs. 7 p.m., Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 531-5305; $35 to $75. (Pareles)

AARON NEVILLE (Tomorrow) Aaron Neville of New Orleans's Neville Brothers brings a resolute, pure high vocal quaver to funky R & B, jazz-pop and gospel music, swinging confidently while still conveying heartache. He plays here with a quintet featuring Charles Neville. 8 p.m., Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, www.concertstonight.com, (212) 307-7171; $39.50 to $49.50. (Sinagra)

BONNIE RAITT, MARC BROUSSARD (Wednesday and Thursday) Since her days following in the footsteps of blues performers like Sippie Wallace and Son House, Ms. Raitt has been comfortable playing with both rolling funk blues and blues-pop that relies on her clear, wearily emotive voice. Her latest work features stripped down songs about loss and resilience. The rootsy singer Marc Broussard opens. 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 496-7070; $40 to $75. (Sinagra)

PATTI SMITH (Wednesday and Thursday) As resolutely pretentious as ever, the punk-poet rocker Patti Smith still has the sinewy swagger to trump young imitators. In celebration of the 30th anniversary of her classic album ''Horses,'' Ms. Smith and her band -- the guitarist Lenny Kaye, the drummer Jay Dee Daugherty, the bassist Tony Shanahan and the guitarist Tom Verlaine, with a special guest, the bassist Flea -- will perform the album in its entirety. A portion of the proceeds will be donated to hurricane-relief organizations. 7:30 p.m., Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100; $20 to $45. (Sinagra)

WADADA LEO SMITH AND ALAN KUSHAN (Thursday) The trumpeter and composer Wadada Leo Smith and the santur player and composer Alan Kushan integrate American improvisational music, Persian classical music and Sufi devotional practice in a performance featuring Mr. Smith's Golden Quartet and Mr. Kushan's group, Rumi's Disciple. 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 362-8060; $10. (Sinagra)

LADY SOVEREIGN (Wednesday) Few M.C.'s ride the jerky rhythms of grime, a British mix of hip-hop and techno, quite like this adorably brash 17-year-old. Her appearance on this year's ''Run the Road'' compilation (Vice) was one of that excellent album's highlights. 9 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $15. (Sinagra)

BILLY SQUIER (Wednesday) Who knew how important the singer-guitarist behind Zeppelin-lite 80's hits like ''Everybody Wants You'' and ''My Kinda Lover'' would be to hip-hop? B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $35.(Sinagra)

TOOTS & THE MAYTALS (Sunday) Toots Hibbert was the first Jamaican singer to put the term reggae in a song title; his ''Do the Reggay'' came out in 1968, when the rhythm was brand new. He is reggae's long-running soul man, applying the gruff, gospel exuberance of Otis Redding to tales of prison, love, dancing and redemption. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Pareles)

WE ARE WOLVES (Tomorrow) Among the current wave of Montreal bands, the trio We Are Wolves is less drama clubby than Arcade Fire, fitting more easily into the dance-punk category. 11 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $8. (Sinagra)

Cabaret
Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. 2 p.m., Oak Room, Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $55, including brunch at noon. (Stephen Holden) ANNIE ROSS (Tomorrow) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 7 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Holden)

'SINGING ASTAIRE' (Tomorrow and Sunday) This smart, airy revue, which pays tribute to Fred Astaire, has returned, featuring Eric Comstock, Hilary Kole and Christopher Gines. 5:30 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; $30, with a $10 minimum. (Holden)

STEVE TYRELL (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Tyrell has one of those where-have-I-heard-it-before growls that sounds great on a movie soundtrack but loses its charm in a club as he rolls standards off the assembly line as if they were all the same song. 8:45, with additional shows at 10:45 tonight and tomorrow night, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $95 tonight and tomorrow; $85 Tuesday and Wednesday; $90 Thursday. (Holden)

Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

ERIC ALEXANDER QUARTET WITH VON FREEMAN (Through Sunday) Mr. Alexander is one of the leading inheritors of a muscular tenor-saxophone style associated with the 1950's; the octogenarian Mr. Freeman, dropping in from his native Chicago, is one of that style's largely unsung but widely influential heroes. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212) 258-9595; cover: $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Nate Chinen)

DON BYRON PLAYS JUNIOR WALKER (Thursday) Jazz has many card-carrying eclectics these days, but none more self-assured than Don Byron, who'll favor the tenor saxophone rather than his usual clarinet in this tribute to the R & B hero Junior Walker. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 539-8778; cover: $20, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JAMES CARTER, CYRUS CHESTNUT, REGINALD VEAL, ALI JACKSON (Wednesday through Dec. 4) Pavement, the 1990's indie-rock band, gets a jazz makeover from the saxophonist James Carter, the pianist Cyrus Chestnut, the bassist Reginald Veal and the drummer Ali Jackson; the band comes touting ''Gold Sounds'' (Brown Brothers), a puckish new album. 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover: $30, $27.50 on Wednesday, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

BILL CHARLAP AND BILL MAYS (Wednesday through Dec. 3) These fine pianists have more than a first name in common; harmonic savvy and an articulate sense of swing are also traits they share. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover: $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ALAN FERBER NONET (Tuesday) As on his recent album, ''Scenes From an Exit Row'' (Fresh Sound), the trombonist Alan Ferber presents his elastic compositions for nonet. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Koze Lounge, 676 Fifth Avenue, at 20th Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 832-8282; cover: $7. (Chinen)

BENNY GOLSON QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. Golson is a brusquely charismatic tenor saxophonist and one of jazz's most tuneful composers. 9 and 11 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, Manhattan, (212) 864-6662; cover: $25 or $30. (Chinen)

MATS GUSTAFSSON AND JOE MCPHEE (Tuesday) Mr. Gustafsson and Mr. McPhee are highly regarded saxophonists in the avant-garde, a generation and a continent removed from each other; they play here with Mr. Gustafsson's Norwegian rhythm section, featuring Ingebrigt Haker Flaten on bass and Paal Nilssen-Love on drums. 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover: $10. (Chinen)

* JIM HALL TRIO (Tuesday through Dec. 4) Mr. Hall's economical style and deep harmonic command have made him a subtly powerful hero of jazz guitar. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover: $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ARTHUR KELL QUARTET (Tuesday) On ''Traveller'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), the bassist and composer Arthur Kell delivers a searching strain of modern jazz; he has worthy partners here in the saxophonist Donny McCaslin, the guitarist Steve Cardenas and the drummer Gerald Cleaver. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover: $20. (Chinen)

KNEEBODY (Thursday) Rock, funk and electronic music commingle convincingly with jazz on this quintet's recent self-titled studio debut; here the group shares a slot with Jerseyband, a young and hyperactive postmodern fusion group. 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover: $12. (Chinen)

LEE KONITZ QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. Konitz lends his venerable reputation and dry-martini alto saxophone to this ensemble, which features the resourceful bop-leaning guitarist Peter Bernstein. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover: $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JASON LINDNER BIG BAND (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. Lindner, a pianist and composer, is best known for this 10-year-old ensemble, which offers big band traditions with contemporary contours; its ranks include the trumpeter Duane Eubanks, the saxophonist Miguel Zenon and the trombonist-cellist Dana Leong. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover: $15. (Chinen)

* BRAD MEHLDAU TRIO (Through Sunday) With ''Day Is Done'' (Nonesuch), the pianist Brad Mehldau has renovated the sound of his longstanding trio, with considerable help from the powerfully expressive drummer Jeff Ballard; the group's luminous brand of lyricism has survived, but its repertory is more pop-inflected and its rhythmic push more pronounced. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover: $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

CARLI MUNOZ QUARTET (Wednesday) Mr. Munoz, a pianist active on the 1970's Los Angeles music scene, has kept a low profile since returning to his native Puerto Rico some 20 years ago; as on his new album, ''Maverick'' (Pelosenel Q Lo), he appears here with the bassist Eddie Gomez and the tenor saxophonist David Sanchez, among others. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover: $20. (Chinen)

DAVID (FATHEAD) NEWMAN (Tuesday through Dec. 4) Mr. Newman's tenor saxophone often provided a bluesy counterpoint to the vocals of Ray Charles; in this small-group tribute, vocal duties fall to Cynthia Scott. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212) 258-9595; cover: $30, with a $10 minimum at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

JOHNNY O'NEAL TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow) Mr. O'Neal is a pianist born and bred in Detroit and a veteran of more than a few celebrated bands; his trio will be joined, for tonight's two sets, by the imaginative and bluesy trombonist Wycliffe Gordan. 8 10 p.m. and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626; cover: $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

EIVIND OPSVIK'S OVERSEAS (Wednesday) On his recent album ''Overseas II'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), the Norwegian bassist Eivind Opsvik plumbs a strikingly modern (and yes, vaguely Nordic) brand of fusion. 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover: $8. (Chinen)

ARTURO SANDOVAL (Tuesday through Dec. 4) Mr. Sandoval is a trumpeter best known for stratospheric bravado, although he occasionally reaches for a subtler aesthetic; his Latin-jazz sextet features Ed Calle on saxophone. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover: $30 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

* MARIA SCHNEIDER ORCHESTRA (Through Sunday) Last year's ''Concert in the Garden'' (ArtistShare) was a success not only for its Internet-only distribution and subsequent Grammy win; the album bespoke this ensemble's rare cohesive precision, along with the sophistication of Ms. Schneider's compositional language. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover: $25 to $30. (Chinen)

TODD SICKAFOOSE GROUP (Tuesday) Mr. Sickafoose is a bassist and composer equally fond of rough edges and rounded forms; he showcases his atmospheric compositions in an improvising chamber ensemble that includes Shane Endsley on trumpet, Alan Ferber on trombone, Mike Gamble on guitar and Erik Deutsch on drums. 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover: $8. (Chinen)

* WADADA LEO SMITH AND ALAN KUSHAN (Thursday) Mr. Smith, a trumpeter of high stature in experimental circles, brings the latest edition of his Golden Quartet to this collaboration with the hammered-dulcimer player Alan Kushan; ''Tabligh,'' composed by Mr. Smith and Mr. Kushan, seeks common ground between Sufi devotional music and the jazz avant-garde. 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 545-7536; cover: $10, $7 for students. (Chinen)

LOREN STILLMAN QUARTET (Wednesday) With his new album, ''It Could Be Anything'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), Mr. Stillman reinforces his reputation as an alto saxophonist with an inquisitive relationship to jazz tradition; he performs here with Jacob Sacks on piano, Scott Lee on bass and Jeff Hirshfield on drums. 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319; cover: $5, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

TILT BRASS BAND (Wednesday) A raucous assembly of creative horn players -- like the trumpeter Shane Endsley and the trombonist Jacob Garchik -- joined by the pianist Anthony Coleman, who presents the premiere of a piece loosely based on ''Eonta,'' by the classical avant-gardist Iannas Xenakis. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover: $10. (Chinen)

DOUG WAMBLE'S FAITH-BASED INITIATIVES (Wednesday) Mr. Wamble, a folksy but adventurous acoustic guitarist, banjoist and vocalist, rounds up a small stable of frequent co-conspirators, including Steven Bernstein on slide trumpet and Charles Burnham on violin. 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover: $10. (Chinen)

Classical
Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'LA BOHEME' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) A new cast at the Met has taken the reins of the Puccini favorite: Ruth Ann Swenson is Mimi, Frank Lopardo is Rodolfo, Emily Pulley is Musetta and Vassily Gerello is Marcello. Philippe Auguin conducts. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Wednesday at 7:30. Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $42 to $320. (Jeremy Eichler)

'CARMEN' (Tomorrow and Tuesday) Carmen will sell tickets no matter who is in it. Nancy Fabiola Herrera, who got to open the run at the Metropolitan Opera this season, is singing it tomorrow opposite the tenor Marcello Giordani, who should excel as Don Jose; on Tuesday, Denyce Graves is back in one of her signature roles opposite the tenor Eduardo Villa. Ana Maria Martinez, a young soprano with a burgeoning international career, made her company debut as Micaela; Erwin Schrott is Escamillo; and Philippe Jordan remains the crisp and able conductor. Tomorrow afternoon at 1:30, Tuesday night at 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; remaining tickets: $150 to $320 tomorrow, $26 to $320 Tuesday (Anne Midgette).

'ROMEO ET JULIETTE' (Tonight, Monday and Thursday) The big news from the Metropolitan Opera's new production of Gounod's ''Romeo et Juliette,'' is the French coloratura soprano Natalie Dessay's remarkable portrayal of Juliette. She sings with uncanny agility and lyrical elegance; her light, rich lyric voice shimmers throughout the house; and she affectingly embodies this tragically impulsive young woman. The tenor Ramon Vargas, though a stiff actor, delivers a vocally impassioned portrayal of Romeo. The Belgian director Guy Joosten's production gives the opera an appropriate Italian Renaissance look, though with surreal touches and some heavy-handed imagery of eternal love amid the starry cosmos. Bertrand de Billy's incisive yet refined conducting of Gounod's most sophisticated score is in every way admirable. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $320. (Anthony Tommasini)

Classical Music

ABSOLUTE ENSEMBLE (Thursday) The conductor Kristjan Jarvi and his free-spirited band invariably present innovative programs, played zestily. The group's current offering is an operatic double bill that includes Mozart's youthful ''Zaide'' and Daniel Schnyder's ''Casanova.'' At 8 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, New York University, 566 La Guardia Place, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200; $30. (Allan Kozinn)

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) Sonatas and Piano Trios by Brahms and Haydn hold the spotlight through the weekend, when Mark Peskanov, the violinist, Peter Bruns, the cellist, and Vladimir Stoupel, the pianist, hold court in this floating concert hall on the East River. On Thursday, Roy Eaton, a pianist, takes over with a program of Bach, Chopin, Gershwin and Joplin. Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., Sunday at 4 p.m., Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083; $35, $30 for 65+ (Thursday only), $25 for students. (Kozinn)

BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Monday) The big event at this much-anticipated concert is the return of the fantastic mezzo-soprano Lorraine Hunt Lieberson, who has cancelled much of her schedule this year because of a back injury, singing the first New York performance of ''Neruda Songs'' by her husband, the composer Peter Lieberson. Taking the measure of James Levine's ongoing renaissance in Boston is the other draw, and Mr. Levine will have plenty of chance to show his stuff in ''Till Eulenspiegel'' and the Mahler Fourth. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $33 to $116 (Midgette).

BRENTANO STRING QUARTET (Wednesday) This dynamic ensemble opens a new ''salon series'' of free one-hour concerts with Schubert's fiery ''Death and the Maiden'' Quartet. At 7 p.m., Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212) 218-7540; free, but reservations are required. (Eichler)

SIMONE DINNERSTEIN (Monday) The young American pianist looks back to Bach, in a big way: to be precise, with the Goldberg Variations, a feat of endurance as well as artistry. She's been touring other cities with it and won considerable acclaim, and her unreleased recording is already attracting buzz. Her big, sure, confident playing has been praised in a range of more recent works, from Rochberg to, at this year's Bard Festival, Copland. Check it out. At 7:30 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $15 to $25 (sold out). (Midgette)

WOLFGANG HOLZMAIR (Monday and Tuesday) This superb baritone, with Russel Ryan at the piano, performs music by the Austrian composers Eric Zeisl and Franz Mittler. At 8, the Austrian Cultural Forum, 11 East 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 319-5300, extension 222; free, but reservations are required. (Kozinn)

CHRISTIAN IMMLER (Sunday) This young German baritone makes his New York debut, with Silvia Fraser at the piano, in a program that includes Schumann's ''Dichterliebe'' (Op. 48) and works by Eisler, Ravel, Rankl and Wolf. At 5 p.m., the Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700; $20. (Kozinn)

ROBERT LEVIN (Thursday) Equally nimble as a pianist and musicologist, Robert Levin hosts another installment of his ''Mozart Explored'' series of concerts with commentary. This time, it's music for wind instruments. At 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $35 to $40. (Eichler)

NEW JERSEY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (Tonight) Lawrence Foster leads the orchestra in works by Enesco and Mendelssohn (the ''Scottish'' Symphony) as well as Beethoven's Second Piano Concerto with the elegant young pianist Jonathan Biss. At 8 p.m., Richardson Auditorium, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J., (800) 255-3476; $50 to $62. Program repeats tomorrow, Sunday and Tuesday in different locations. (Eichler)

THE NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight and tomorrow) Dresden's cathedral, the Frauenkirche, was bombed in the war and only restored after German reunification, and the New York Philharmonic has just played in Dresden as part of the reopening celebrations. For the occasion, the British composer Colin Matthews wrote a new piece, ''Berceuse for Dresden,'' for the Philharmonic and a Dresden-based cellist, Jan Vogler, who makes his subscription debut this weekend with this piece and the Schumann cello concerto. Dvorak's New World Symphony rounds out the concert; Lorin Maazel conducts. At 8 p.m. (a matinee of the Dvorak and Dohnanyi's piano quintet, is tomorrow at 2 p.m.), Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $26 to $92 ($23 to $64 for the matinee). (Midgette)

NEW YORK YOUTH SYMPHONY (Sunday) The concerts by this dynamic orchestra of aspiring young musicians, mostly of high-school age, are never disappointing. The orchestra had a good record of enticing major musicians as soloists, and Sunday afternoon's concert offers Carter Brey, the brilliant principal cellist of the New York Philharmonic, in Dvorak's Cello Concerto. Each concert also presents a premiere by a young composer, and this time it's Ryan Anthony Francis's ''Axiom.'' The conductor Paul Haas ends the program with Beethoven's Fifth. There is nothing like hearing a repertory staple played by thrilled young musicians, many of whom may be playing it for the first time. At 2 p.m., Stern Auditorium, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $7 to $45. (Tommasini)

PIANO TRIOS PLUS (Tomorrow) Prism Projects presents Piano Trios Plus, a concert of new and recent chamber works on Saturday night. Lots of cutting-edge contemporary concerts seem to take place in churches, especially open-minded parishes like St. Peter's in Chelsea, which has long fostered music of all kinds. On this intriguing program, with Robert Frankenberry piano; Roger Zahab, violin; David Russell, cello; and Tanya Maggi, viola, there will be trios by two of my favorite living composers, Lee Hyla and Judith Weir, more trios by David Keberle and Mr. Zahab, with a piano quartet by Ms. Weir to round out the program. At 7:30 p.m., St. Peter's Church in Chelsea, 346 West 20th Street, (212) 741-0011; $10 at the door. (Tommasini)

QUEEN'S CHAMBER TRIO (Sunday) Marin Marais was the early music flavor of the month for a while in the late 1980's, after his life was explored in the film ''Tous les Matins du Monde'' (''All the Mornings of the World''). His music still turns up regularly in concerts by Jordi Savall and other gambists, but on Sunday it will be played by this slightly updated ensemble, which uses a cello rather than a gamba. In addition to Marais, the group will perform music by Mozart. At 2 p.m., Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $30. (Kozinn)

EARL WILD (Tuesday) Three days after his 90th birthday, the American pianist Earl Wild will celebrate by giving a substantial recital at Carnegie Hall. Mr. Wild, long acclaimed for his nonchalant brand of virtuosity, has lost a little power and precision in recent years. But this summer at the Mannes College of Music he played a difficult program with fluidity, grace, beautiful colorings and lots of panache. For this occasion he offers works by Beethoven, Liszt, Chopin and himself, as well as his own delightful transcriptions of works by Rachmaninoff and Marcello. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $15 to $90. (Tommasini)

Dance
Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

* ALVIN AILEY AMERICAN DANCE THEATER (Wednesday and Thursday) The company's annual City Center season opens Wednesday (and runs through Jan. 1) with a gala that includes ''Reminiscin,' '' a new work by Judith Jamison, the Ailey artistic director, plus the company's signature ''Revelations,'' its ''Messiah'' and ''Nutcracker'' rolled into one, with live music. (Repertory performances begin Thursday.) Wednesday at 7 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m. (sold out), New York City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212 or www.alvinailey.org or www.nycitycenter.org; nongala, $25 to $75. (John Rockwell)

ARMITAGE GONE! DANCE (Wednesday and Thursday) Back in New York City after a European career, Karole Armitage presents her new ''In this dream that dogs me,'' which draws from sources as various as calligraphy and the South Central Los Angeles street dance known as krumping. (Through Dec. 18.) 8 p.m., the Duke, 229 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200 or www.telecharge.com; $35. (Jennifer Dunning)

BALLET MESTIZO (Tonight through Sunday) The company performs Colombian folk dance and music. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 4 p.m. (weekends through Dec. 11), Thalia Spanish Theater, 41-17 Greenpoint Avenue, Sunnyside, Queens, (718) 729-3880 or www.thaliatheatre.org; $25 (tonight); $30 (other nights); students and 65+, $27. (Dunning)

BALLETTO STILETTO (Thursday through Dec. 18) Based on Grimm's ''Twelve Dancing Princesses,'' the director Mary Fulham's holiday spectacular offers an alternative for anyone liable to go nuts if forced to sit through another ''Nutcracker'' or other cherished Christmas tradition. 7:30 p.m., with 2:30 matinee on Sundays. La MaMa, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com ; $15 to $25.(Claudia La Rocco)

* BATSHEVA DANCE COMPANY (Through Sunday) Israel's leading modern-dance company with ''Mamootot,'' a compelling hourlong work by Israel's leading choreographer, Ohad Naharin, presented by the Next Wave Festival in a studio that seats only 100. Tonight and tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., tomorrow at 9:30 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., James and Martha Duffy Performance Space, Mark Morris Dance Center, 3 Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100 or www.bam.org; $40 (sold out). (Rockwell)

CHASHAMA: 'TRANSIT' (Today through Sunday) Eleanor Dubinsky explores travel in a free dance piece with simultaneous video projections from five cities throughout the world, in a storefront and gallery space. Noon to 5 p.m. (open rehearsals) and 5 to 9 p.m. (performances), Chashama Window Gallery, 266 West 37th Street, Manhattan., www.chashama.org (Dunning)

FRESH TRACKS (Tonight and tomorrow) Chase Granoff, Isabel Lewis, John Wyszniewski and others -- catch them before they are stars as the coveted series for emerging choreographers returns. 7 :30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street , Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org ; $12 to $20. (La Rocco)

JANE GOLDBERG: 'BELLY TAP FOR WORLD PEACE' (Tonight and tomorrow) Known as the originator of the ''tap and schmooze'' school of dance, Ms. Goldberg is also a performer who embodies a good deal of recent tap history. 8, Blue Mountain Gallery, 530 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 393-1182; suggested donation, $15 to $25. (Dunning)

GOLDEN DRAGON ACROBATS (Today through Sunday) Direct from China, with cables to twirl on, hoops to spin and bodies to twist to pretzel shapes. (Through Jan. 1.) Today and tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m., Sunday at noon and 5 p.m., New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200 or www.newvictory.org; $10 to $50. (Dunning)

MIGUEL GUTIERREZ AND THE POWERFUL PEOPLE (Wednesday and Thursday) This irrepressible, inquisitive modern-dance performer, choreographer and program curator will present two new pieces inspired by performers' psyches and how they got that way. (Through Dec. 3.) 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or www.dtworg; $20; $12 for artists and students. (Dunning)

MARTHA HILL AWARD (Monday) This year's award for lifetime achievement in dance will go to Ruth E. Grauert, a lighting designer and witness to dance history who is as redoubtable as the educator whom the prize memorializes. Performances by Beverly Blossom, Betsy Fisher and the winner of a young professional award, Christopher Vo. 6 p.m. (reception) and 8 p.m. (awards and performance), Thomas Hunter Hall, Sixth Floor Dance Studio, Lexington Avenue between 68th and 69th Street, (212) 717-6148; $75 (for performers); $150 to $750.(Dunning)

JAZZ TAP ENSEMBLE (Tonight through Sunday) Lynn Dally, director of this troupe of young tappers, offers a slew of new works -- two accompanied live by the jazz vocalist Kate McGarry. Tonight and tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800; $40. (Roslyn Sulcas)

A KLEZMER NUTCRACKER (Sunday) Shirim meets Tchaikovsky when the Amy Marshall Dance Company performs this child-friendly twist on the classic ballet. 2 p.m., Queensborough Community College Performing Arts Center, 222-05 56th Avenue, Bayside, Queens, (718) 631-6311, visitqpac.org; $10 (La Rocco)

MOVEMENT RESEARCH IMPROV FESTIVAL (Thursday) Performances, workshops, studio visits and discussions will explore this tool in postmodernist choreography, with performers chosen by curators who include DD Dorvillier and koosil-ja hwang . (Through Dec. 4.) 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194 or www.danspaceproject.org; $15. (Dunning)

ANAHID SOFIAN DANCE COMPANY (Wednesday and Thursday) Ms. Sofian, a specialist in dances of the Middle East, has drawn on the culture of Morocco for her new ''Marrakech: Inside the Magic Circle.'' (Through Dec. 4.) 7:30 p.m., Baruch College Performing Arts Center, 55 Lexington Avenue at 24th Street, Manhattan, (646) 312-4085; $45.00; $23, Baruch students. (Dunning)

URBAN BALLET THEATER (Tomorrow, Sunday and Thursday) Daniel Catanach's ''Nutcracker in the Lower'' is inspired by the landscapes and denizens of the Lower East Side, including housing projects and hip-hop rats and toy soldiers. Tomorrow and Thursday at 7 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Henry Street Settlement, 466 Grand Street, Lower East Side, (212) 352-3101 or www.henrystreet.org/abronsartscenter; $15; $10 for students with ID's and 65+ .(Dunning)

ZERO VISIBILITY CORP. (Wednesday and Thursday) Performance Space 122's lively looking Norway in New York festival offers this innovative dance company in a piece called ''It's Only a Rehearsal.'' 8 p.m., P.S. 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101 or www.ps122.org; $20, $15 students and 65+. (Rockwell)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'OBSESSIVE DRAWING,' through March 19. In the museum's first ''emerging talent'' show, one of the five artists selected is 83, lives in a home for the elderly in Pennsylvania and stopped painting two years ago because of failing eyesight. Over all, the work in the exhibition is abstract and spare, giving the problematic outsider category a new spin. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Holland Cotter)

ASIA SOCIETY: 'VIETNAM: DESTINATION FOR THE NEW MILLENNIUM -- THE ART OF DINH Q. LE,' through Jan. 15. Born in Vietnam, Mr. Le moved to the United States at 11 and received a Master of Fine Arts degree from the School of Visual Arts in New York. This small exhibition presents high-concept photographic and sculptural works about the Vietnam War and its effects, as well as a pair of sculptures representing communications satellites that satirize Vietnam's plans to enter the Space Age. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400.(Ken Johnson)

BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'EDWARD BURTYNSKY: MANUFACTURED LANDSCAPES,' through Jan. 15. Large, expertly made color images by a Canadian photographer show industrial subjects like marble quarries in India, a tire dump in California and modern development in China. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000. (Johnson)

* THE FRICK COLLECTION: 'MEMLING'S PORTRAITS,' through Dec. 31. Just over 30 portrait paintings by Hans Memling survive from the 15th century. Of those, about 20 are on view at the Frick Collection. That's a whale of a lot of paintings by any major early Northern European artist to be in any one place at one time, and there is little question that this show will figure on any shortlist of outstanding events of the year. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700. (Cotter)

GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'RUSSIA!,' through Jan. 11. This survey of nine centuries of Russian art ranges from 13th-century religious icons to a smattering of 21st-century works, achieving its astounding effect without resorting to a single egg, or anything else, by Faberge. It immerses us in two enormous, endlessly fascinating narratives: the history of painting and the history of Russia, forming a remarkable tribute to the endurance of the medium and the country, and the inescapable interconnectedness of art and life. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3600. (Roberta Smith)

* JAPAN SOCIETY: 'HIROSHI SUGIMOTO: HISTORY OF HISTORY,' through Feb. 19. A personal, whimsical exhibition by this well-known Japanese photographer, who incorporates into his work artifacts that he has collected, particularly from East Asia and Japan. Mr. Sugimoto's reach is long and his range is broad, from fossils to textiles to undersea dioramas to Japanese calligraphy to the Trylon and Perisphere (a minisculpture) that symbolized the 1939 New York World's Fair. It may not be all that enlightening, but as an artist's personal survey, it comes off. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155. (Grace Glueck)

* JEWISH MUSEUM: 'THE JEWISH IDENTITY PROJECT: NEW AMERICAN PHOTOGRAPHY,' through Jan. 29. Who's Jewish, who isn't, and, by the way, what is a Jew, anyway? These are not easy questions, as this intense who-are-we exploration makes clear. Ten projects by 13 artists try to help break the stereotype of American Jews as uniformly white, middle-class and of European descent. Using photography and video, the artists have interpreted their missions broadly, from the Korean-born Nikki S. Lee's meticulous staging of a Jewish wedding with herself as the bride, to Andrea Robbins and Max Becher's look at the thriving shtetl established by Lubavitcher Hasidic Jews in rural Postville, Iowa. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200. (Glueck)

* METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'FRA ANGELICO,' through Jan. 29. An exhibition as rare as it is sublime brings the divine Angelico down to earth, showing how he had the best of both worlds, using the innovations of the Renaissance to parlay the radiant colors, gilded surfaces and doll-like figures of Gothic art into a final flowering. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. (Smith)

* MET: 'THE PERFECT MEDIUM: PHOTOGRAPHY AND THE OCCULT,' through Dec. 31. Hands down, the most hilarious, not to mention the most charming, exhibition the Met has done in years: an assemblage of 19th-century and early-20th-century spirit photographs, seance reportage and other examples of transparent tomfoolery. Like all examples of great humor, it is, at heart, also a sneakily serious affair. Its subjects include the depths of human gullibility and the conjuring power of photography, whose technology, we may forget in the cynical day of digital manipulation and Photoshop, seemed unfathomable to so many people a century and more ago. The exhibition's deeper subject is the dreamer in all of us. (See above.) (Michael Kimmelman)

* Met: 'VINCENT VAN GOGH: THE DRAWINGS,' through Dec. 31. Think again before deciding you've got a case of van Gogh fatigue and skipping this exhibition -- not just because the focus is on drawings, which on the whole are less well-known than the paintings and were so important to the early spread of his reputation, but also because in the flesh, great art, no matter how often it has been dully reproduced or mistaken for a price tag or overrun by crowds, retains its dignity and originality and utter strangeness. Frankly, the whole show, even including the bad drawings, is unforgettable. (See above.) (Kimmelman)

* MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: BEYOND THE VISIBLE: 'THE ART OF ODILON REDON,' through Jan. 23. The timing was off for the big Odilon Redon retrospective in Chicago in 1994. The art world's mind was on identity politics and neo-conceptualism. Fin-de-siecle drawings of moony monsters and lamp-bright flowers existed on some other planet. Now there's another Redon survey, smaller, very beautiful, culminating in his lush, pixilated late paintings. And the timing for it is just right. 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400. (Cotter)

* MUSEUM OF MODERN ART : 'ELIZABETH MURRAY,' through Jan. 9. Here is the complete range of shape-shifting, dizzily colored pictures that Elizabeth Murray has produced over four decades. The colors are noisy, the harmonies pungent, the scale big and bold. While art-world fashion has drifted here and there, Ms. Murray has stuck to her craft, with all its difficulties and at the occasional cost of failure and neglect. Her show is a meaty, openhearted, eye-popping event. (See above.) (Kimmelman)

NEUE GALERIE: 'EGON SCHIELE: THE RONALD S. LAUDER AND SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTIONS,' through Feb. 20. This extensive exhibition mostly of works on paper gives an informative account of the regrettably brief career of one of the 20th century's great draftsmen and romantic rebels. Schiele's self-portraits, drawings and watercolors of sexy young women still burn with fires of narcissistic yearning, erotic desire and bohemian dissent. 1048 Fifth Avenue, (212) 628-6200. (Johnson)

* P.S. 1: 'PETER HUJAR,' through Jan. 16. When Peter Hujar died in 1987, he was a figure of acute interest to a small group of fans and unknown to practically everyone else. His photographs of desiccated corpses in Sicilian catacombs and studio portraits of New York's downtown demimonde were a gorgeous shock, and their cocktail of Nadar, Weegee and Vogue shaped the work of many younger artists. This surveyish sampling includes several of his recurrent themes: portraits of people and animals, landscapes, still lifes and erotica. Sensuality and mortality are the binders throughout, inseparable. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084.(Cotter)

* P.S. 1: 'THE PAINTED WORLD,' through Jan. 30. Though this 23-artist exhibition of mostly contemporary abstractionists lacks bite as a whole, every individual painter in it is worthy of attention. In addition to ancestral figures like Myron Stout and Moira Dryer, the show includes Philip Taaffe, Mary Heilmann and Chris Martin. (See above.) (Johnson)

* STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'FREQUENCY,' through March 12. Despite some marked unevenness, this display of new and recently emerged talent confirms the current vitality of black art, contemporary art and mid-size New York museums. Names to look out for include Kalup Linzy, Leslie Hewitt, Jeff Sonhouse, Shinique Amie Smith, Demetrius Oliver, Michael Paul Britto, Nick Cave, Mickalene Thomas and Michael Queenland, but don't stop there. 144 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 864-4500. (Smith)

* WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'OSCAR BLUEMNER: A PASSION FOR COLOR,' through Feb. 12. Not exactly a well-known name today, except to devotees of American Modernism, this German-born architect-turned-painter (1867-1938) was one of the major American artists of the early 20th century. Most of his compositions are unpeopled landscapes depicting houses and building fragments in brilliantly stylized settings in which trees, clouds, smokestacks, telephone poles, water and snow are rendered as rhythmic and dramatic shapes that play off one another almost musically. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676. (Glueck)

* WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'THE ART OF RICHARD TUTTLE,' through Feb. 5. For 40 years Richard Tuttle has murmured the ecstasies of paying close attention to the world's infinitude of tender incidents, making oddball assemblages of prosaic ephemera, which, at first glance, belie their intense deliberation and rather monumental ambition. Out of cord, tin, Styrofoam, florist's wire and bubble wrap he has devised objects whose status is not quite sculpture or drawing or painting but some combination of the three, and whose exquisiteness is akin to that of jewelry. His outstanding retrospective is a cross between a kindergarten playroom and a medieval treasury. (See above) (Kimmelman)

Galleries: 57th Street

EDWARD MAYER: 'DRAWING OUT' A single work designed for and occupying the entire front exhibition space of this gallery, ''Drawing Out'' looks both sturdy and fragile, a skeletal open-work modular passageway 18-feet-long, put together as if from a giant Erector set. At once disciplined architecture and intuitive sculptural drawing, the piece invites you to enter and explore it, while conveying a disturbing sense of matter out of place. How often do you get to view a drawing from the inside out? Zabriskie Gallery, 41 East 57th Street (212) 752-1223, through Dec. 3. (Glueck)

TOM WESSELMANN: 'WORKS ON PAPER, RETROSPECTIVE' Typed as a Pop artist early on for his portrayals of commercial foodstuffs as well as of stylized women's bodies (or parts thereof) that mingled classic odalisque and sexy pinup, Tom Wesselmann (1931-2004) had other strings to his bow, among them an interest in landscape and, later in his career, large abstract cutouts in metal. His provocative nude icons are here in abundance, but also evident is his interest in Matisse, Picasso and Mondrian. This lively show of 44 works on paper, arranged by his daughter, Kate, also reveals that Wesselmann was a compulsive draftsman, producing and revising many color and compositional studies for his finished works. Maxwell Davidson Gallery, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 759-7555, through Dec. 23. (Glueck)

* 'THE WOMEN OF GIACOMETTI' A museum-quality show of paintings and sculptures focuses on Alberto Giacometti's curiously asexual representations of his mother, sister, wife and other women in his life. PaceWildenstein, 32 East 57th Street, (212) 421-3292, through Dec. 17. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

POLLY APFELBAUM: 'CARTOON GARDEN' Give Ms. Apfelbaum credit for trying one of her signature fabric floors without color. Still, though the wide rectangular plot of cartoon blossoms drawn with black markers on pieces of white velvet is graphically lively, the aesthetic payoff as a whole is not worth the sacrifice of color. D'Amelio Terras, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 352-9460, through Dec. 23.(Johnson)

'THE ART OF CHESS' Updating a historical show of chess sets by mid-20th-century artists on view at the Noguchi Museum, this entertaining exhibition presents fantastic, funky and elegant chess sets designed by, among others, Damien Hirst, Jake and Dinos Chapman, Tom Friedman, Paul McCarthy and Yayoi Kusama -- whose optically ravishing set of dotted gourdlike pieces enclosed within a big, leather-clad pumpkin-shaped container steals the show. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9100, through Dec. 23.(Johnson)

* JEREMY BLAKE: 'SODIUM FOX' The best animated video of this innovative artist's career is a dense, briskly based fusion of formalism and underbelly, both indubitably American, propelled by the words and voice of the poet David Berman. Feigen Contemporary, 535 West 20th Street, (212) 929-0500, through Dec. 3. (Smith)

* JEREMY COMINS While neither especially original nor current, Mr. Comins's small carved wood sculptures evoke the history of the medium with assured sophistication, impeccable craft and that unmarketable commodity called integrity. Denise Bibro, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 647-7030, through Dec. 10. (Smith)

TRACEY EMIN: 'I CAN FEEL YOUR SMILE' This British artist presents embroideredand stitched works about unrequited love that look as if they were made by a distracted teenage girl and also include an internally lighted tower of sticks that alludes to witch burning. Lehmann Maupin, 540 West 26th Street, (212) 255-2923, through Dec. 17. (Johnson)

BRIAN FINKE: 'MOST MUSCULAR' Whether bodybuilding is a sport, an art form or a neurosis, the physiques of people who have devoted themselves to growing their muscles are always fascinating to see. Mr. Finke's photographs of scantily clad, extraordinarily pumped-up men and women on stage and behind the scenes at competitions are riveting. ClampArt, 531 West 25th Street, (646) 230-0020, through Dec. 17.(Johnson)

MONA HATOUM: 'MOBILE HOME' The playful side of this often politically motivated sculptor prevails. The centerpiece, ''Mobile Home,'' is an arrangement of domestic objects strung on fine cables between metal traffic barriers; it takes a moment to realize that the toys, chairs, suitcases and other items are slowly rolling back and forth on tiny wheels. An installation upstairs consists of a circle of slowly pulsing light bulbs plugged into intricately interwoven cables. Alexander and Bonin, 132 10th Avenue, between 18th and 19th Streets, (212) 367-7474, through Dec. 22. (Johnson)

JAMES HAYWARD A veteran Los Angeles-based abstract painter selected for this show by Mike Kelley, Mr. Hayward presents a recent series of single-color paintings made of extremely thick, crisscrossing brush strokes. The optical and tactile combine to exceptionally satisfying effect. Cue, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 206-3583, through Dec. 3. (Johnson)

GARY KUEHN Since the 1960's, Mr. Kuehn has been inventively exploring material dimensions of sculpture while swerving back and forth between pure abstraction and semiabstract representation. This show features paintings that juxtapose gridded colored dots and skittery black lines made by whipping surfaces with ink-soaked lengths of rope. Esso, 531 West 26th Street, (212) 560-9728, through Dec. 3. (Johnson)

MEL LEIPZIG A Trenton-based realist who began exhibiting in the mid-1960's, Mr. Leipzig paints affectionate, exhaustively detailed portraits of people in their homes or workplaces with a deliberately unpolished touch. One subject is a man with a shaved head and a goatee relaxing on his living room sofa in the midst of an amazingly extensive collection of sports memorabilia. Henoch, 555 West 25th Street, (917) 305-0003, through Dec. 3. (Johnson)

* ANN LISLEGAARD: 'BELLONA (AFTER SAMUEL R. DELANY)' An entrancing animated video based on a famous science-fiction novel tours a mazelike series of empty rooms. Murray Guy, 453 West 17th Street, (212) 463-7372, through Dec. 3. (Johnson)

* JULIA OSCHATZ: 'PARALYZED PARADISE III' A talented artist who is rare for being simultaneously German and female paints, dances and hikes (in video) her way through an impressive multimedia debut in a slyly personalized version of Northern Romanticism. Leslie Tonkonow Artworks + Projects, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-8450, through Dec. 30. (Smith)

Other Galleries

HANS HOFMANN: 'THE LEGACY' Hofmann was one of the few who made it into the art history hall of fame as both teacher and painter. Along with three works by the master himself, this exhibition presents abstract and semiabstract paintings by disciples who were either directly taught or deeply influenced by him, including Ludwig Sander, Robert De Niro, Louisa Matthiasdottir and Laurie Fendrich. Painting Center, 52 Greene Street, SoHo, (212) 343-1060, through Dec. 24. (Johnson)

RAY MORTENSON: 'CEDARS/SEA AND SKY' Alternating between the land and sea of Rhode Island, this quietly gripping show of mostly small black-and-white photographs presents soft and misty images of bushy cedars and extraordinarily clear and luminous pictures of ocean waves. Janet Borden, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 431-0166, through Dec. 4. (Johnson)

* 'THE SPLENDOR OF THE WORD: MEDIEVAL AND RENAISSANCE ILLUMINATED MANUSCRIPTS AT THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY' Few objects encapsulate their times like the exquisite full-service concentrations of text, image and decoration that are illuminated manuscripts, and few institutions in North America have as many great ones as New York City's favorite library. New York Public Library, Fifth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 869-8069, through Feb. 12. (Smith)

Last Chance

* 'IF IT'S TOO BAD TO BE TRUE, IT COULD BE DISINFORMATION' Old-style political art said yes or no, told you what to do. New-style political art, as often as not, obscures its intentions, makes you wonder what it's up to and goes for confusion, as in this shrewd, dematerialized group exhibition on the subject of disinformation, a passive form of political deceit that tells lies through the omission of facts. The idea is that the less people know about what their government is doing, the less likely they are to raise a fuss. Apexart, 291 Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 431-5270, closing Saturday. (Cotter)

* ANDRE KERTESZ From tiny, wonderfully intense pictures made in the teens in Budapest, where Kertesz was born in 1894, to formally acute views of Paris in the 20's and 30's, to emotionally and metaphorically resonant images of New York, where he lived from 1936 to his death in 1985, this beautiful exhibition covers the career of a giant of 20th-century photography. International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, closing Sunday. (Johnson)

KIM SIMONSSON Under the influence of Japanese manga cartoons, this Finnish ceramicist makes large, monochromatic sculptures of wide-eyed, otherworldly girls and deer. Nancy Margolis, 523 West 25th Street, (212) 242-3013, closing Saturday. (Johnson)

'SYSTEM IN CHAOS: NEW ART BRUT FROM THE CZECH REPUBLIC' Four fascinating Czech outsiders: Zdenek Kosek's small, congested bubble diagrams chart unfathomable verbal associations; Lubos Plny's expansive, finely detailed drawings offer delirious lessons in human anatomy; Zbynek Semerak's small, delicately busy works on paper convey what seems to be a medieval iconography of religion and architecture; and Leos Wertheimer's large drawings portray locomotives with mechanical precision. Cavin-Morris, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 226-3768, closing Saturday. (Johnson)

ROBERT THERRIEN, 'TABLE AND SIX CHAIRS' In a vast corporate atrium stand a table and six chairs that are wholly ordinary-looking except for their gigantic size -- the chair backs rise to almost nine feet, and the top of the table is over six feet. Mr. Therrien transformed his own kitchen furniture into painted metal monuments that make the viewer feel like the protagonist of ''Jack and the Beanstalk.'' The Atrium of 590 Madison Avenue, at 56th Street, (212) 980-4575, closing Monday. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: Photos: ART -- Far left, a still from Hank Willis Thomas and Kambui Olujimi's video, ''Winter in America,'' is part of ''Frequency,'' a showcase for emerging black artists at the Studio Museum in Harlem, Page 33.
DANCE -- Left, Megumi Eda and Felix Fan (with cello) perform in ''In this dream that dogs me,'' a new work by Karole Armitage, which will be presented at the Duke in Manhattan, Page 32.
MOVIES -- Above, Robbie Coltrane plays Rubeus Hagrid in ''Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,'' the latest edition, directed by Mike Newell, of the saga of the young wizard with the zigzag scar, Page 31 (Photo by Courtesy of Hank Willis Thomas and Kambui Olujimi )
(Photo by Warner Brothers Pictures)
 (Photo by Matthu Placek)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); MUSIC (77%); WRITERS (75%); FILM (72%); THEATER (58%); SUICIDE (56%); IDENTITY THEFT (54%); AIDS & HIV (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



496 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Chief Won't Count On Consensus

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
Just before Christmas in 1991, Arthur Dunkel distributed what by international trade standards was a radical document.
 Fed up with five years of inconclusive talks on liberalizing global trade, Mr. Dunkel, who ran the organization that was the precursor to the World Trade Organization, distributed a 500-page draft agreement to 108 member nations. It spelled out exactly what he thought a fair compromise should be for dozens of different disputes, from textiles to banking.
Two years later, with fairly few changes, the ''Dunkel Draft'' had evolved into the international pact that led to the formation of the more powerful World Trade Organization, from its weaker elder, the body governed by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
 Pascal Lamy, the director general of the W.T.O. since Sept. 1, now faces a similar challenge: global trade talks that are at least equally deadlocked after four years under the Doha Development Round, which began in Doha, Qatar, in 2001. But it is a measure of the even greater difficulty facing Mr. Lamy in securing an agreement that he does not plan to propose a comprehensive agreement before trade ministers from 149 nations and customs territories gather here on Dec. 13.
 Instead, this Friday evening, Mr. Lamy intends to issue a fairly broad outline of where the different sides stand on a range of issues, said Keith Rockwell, the chief W.T.O. spokesman. ''He's not going to try to force a consensus that's not there,'' Mr. Rockwell said in a telephone interview this week. 
 Mr. Lamy, a dapper and energetic French economist, confronts a harder task than Mr. Dunkel partly because of the expansion in the W.T.O.'s membership in the last dozen years; Saudi Arabia will become the 149th member on Dec. 11. Many developing countries used to follow the lead of the United States and the European Union in trade talks but now they are becoming more involved in day-to-day negotiations, further complicating the talks.
 The Geneva-based W.T.O. makes decisions only by consensus. So a single nation can block progress, as Botswana did in bringing the last W.T.O. ministerial conference to a standstill two years ago in Cancun, Mexico.
 ''We have much more members, we have much more active members, the size of the agenda is much bigger and the combination of size of the agenda and the number of active members makes the odds of a resolution much lower than they were before,'' Mr. Lamy said in a recent interview here.
 American officials have welcomed Mr. Lamy even though he is French and is a member of the French Socialist Party. He rose swiftly through the French civil service and then became a senior adviser to a succession of top French officials in Paris and Brussels. But during Mr. Lamy's tour as trade commissioner of the European Union from 1999 to 2004, he repeatedly pressed the French government and others to allow more free trade.
 ''Now we've got someone who is really hands-on and willing to assert himself more, which I think can be really positive,'' said Rob Portman, the United States trade representative. The previous round of trade talks, called the Uruguay Round, toughened the enforcement of international trade rules, causing national governments and industry lobbyists alike to scrutinize new proposals more painstakingly than they did when Mr. Dunkel ran the GATT.
 The United States accepted a provision as part of the Uruguay Round that has since prevented it from restricting Americans' access to offshore Internet gambling sites, a provision which American trade negotiators have tried and failed to remove in Geneva.
 ''What people commit to W.T.O. they watch much more carefully than they did before,'' Mr. Lamy said.
 Mr. Dunkel, a quiet Swiss bureaucrat who died earlier this year, may have also eroded the power of the trade organization's leadership with his draft, instead of enhancing it. The reason is that many developing countries later concluded that his draft paid too little attention to their interests, and vowed never to be pushed into a similar pact by a director general again.
 The director general of the W.T.O. has no formal authority under either the previous GATT rules or the current W.T.O. rules. Teddy Roosevelt used to describe the American presidency as mainly a bully pulpit, and the director general of the W.T.O. has a similar role, at least among trade negotiators, lawyers and others interested in hearing about the intricacies of global agreements.
 Mr. Lamy's reputation as an aggressive negotiator stands in contrast to his predecessor, Supachai Panitchpakdi of Thailand, who devoted more of his energy to building consensus during his three-year term, which ended on Aug. 31. Mr. Lamy, who is 58 and married with three grown children, has been given a four-year term by the W.T.O.'s member nations.
 Mr. Lamy has particularly tried to develop closer relations with the many nongovernmental organizations that now pay attention to trade negotiations. Wearing a light gray, collarless cotton shirt and a darker gray sports coat, he sat through a three-hour public meeting with advocates here last month.
 When protesters stopped his car as he left -- one even climbed on the hood -- Mr. Lamy hopped out of the vehicle to accept their petition himself. Showing up an hour later in a dark suit and tie for a dinner speech, Mr. Lamy remarked that to defuse such confrontations, ''You have to go as near as possible to the people who want to punch you.''
 With few trade negotiators now expecting a big breakthrough in the Hong Kong ministerial meeting, Mr. Lamy may need the stamina he has developed through years as a runner. He has long tried to run in both the New York and Paris marathons each year; his best time is 3 hours and 30 minutes, Mr. Rockwell said.
 But in a sign of how grueling his next task will be, Mr. Lamy has had little time since taking office for running, which he now confines to weekends and the occasional jog at lunchtime.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pascal Lamy became head of the World Trade Organization on Sept. 1. (Photo by Paul Yeung/Reuters)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (94%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%) FRANCE (93%); QATAR (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); BELGIUM (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BOTSWANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



497 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: A New Orleans Bank Faces Mold, Ruins and Tough Choices

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
At one bank branch, vandals whacked futilely at a vault with what must have been a crowbar. At another, looters worked over an outdoor cash machine, stripping its plastic molding and exposing the metal and wire innards but never reaching the stack of bills locked inside. After smashing through a glass door, the intruders took a sledgehammer to the cinderblock wall housing the bank vault. They bashed a hole large enough to crawl through--if not for the thick steel plate on the other side. 
 These are some of the depressing scenes that met Alden J. McDonald Jr., the chief executive of Liberty Bank and Trust, the largest black-owned bank in New Orleans, as he toured the eastern half of the city in early November. This vast stretch--encompassing the 9th Ward, the 7th Ward and New Orleans East--is home to most of Liberty's customers as well as the bank's headquarters prior to Hurricane Katrina. 
The visit was in part a field trip to inspect the moldy, stinking remains of bank branches hit hardest by flooding and looting. But mainly Mr. McDonald was on a scouting expedition. Here, in the predominantly black, eastern half of New Orleans, he was searching for signs of activity that might justify the reopening of some of Liberty's six closed New Orleans branches. The bank is operating only two of its eight New Orleans branches, both located in the western half of the city. 
 Mr. McDonald found little cause for optimism. 
 Nearly three months after the storm, reconstruction of the New Orleans economy is turning out to be slower and more complex than many people first thought. Basic services like electricity, water and sewer are still lacking in large swaths of the city, including the New Orleans East neighborhood, home to four of Liberty's eight New Orleans branches. 
 The New Orleans school district optimistically said it would open a small number of its schools by the start of November, but that deadline has passed without any action. Residents from low-lying areas await word on the city's plans for their neighborhoods. Meanwhile, toxic mold clings to everything it touches and permeates the air, sickening even occasional visitors. 
 Looted buildings have yet to be cleaned up and wrecked structures yet to be leveled because there are not enough workers to haul away the debris. And some businesses, including Liberty, are trapped in limbo as they try to negotiate settlements with insurance companies.
 ''Depending on the settlement, I'll clean up or I'll tear it down,'' Mr. McDonald said. 
 Liberty's slow progress returning to New Orleans, despite Mr. McDonald's best efforts, is the wider tale of the Crescent City. And just as Liberty is dependent on the local economy's rebirth, the city needs Liberty to write commercial loans and home mortgages to start the painstaking rebuilding progress. Mr. McDonald, who is chairman of the New Orleans Chamber of Commerce and serves on the commission the mayor appointed to devise a rebuilding plan for the city, is never quite sure if he is helping his bank or his city, in large part because they are often one and the same.
 ''Anything we do to get people back in town helps my bank,'' he said. ''Anything we can do to help New Orleans get back on its feet helps me.'' As Mr. McDonald drove the streets of the 7th Ward, a working-class community of bungalows where he grew up, he found only scant traces of life. There were almost no people on the streets for blocks on end, and virtually no cars traversed thoroughfares that would normally be crowded at midday. So instead he pointed at skeletons -- businesses Liberty had helped to underwrite and that, since Katrina, have been boarded up, and homes the bank financed that are now sitting unoccupied. 
 ''This here was my customer base, and it's just gone,'' he said. He shook his head, and his normally sleepy eyes bulged in disbelief. It is a phrase and look he would repeat a half-dozen times during a three-hour excursion, as if still trying to bend his brain around the immensity of it all. 
 More than half the journey was spent crisscrossing the streets of New Orleans East in the city's northeast quadrant. If anything, this corner of New Orleans, where the city's black middle class and professional class was concentrated, offers a picture even more disheartening than the low-income 7th Ward. In select pockets of the city, such as Uptown and the West Bank, where two Liberty branches have reopened, lights blaze in windows at night and restaurants and bars along major thoroughfares are sometimes so packed that one must hunt for a nearby parking space. 
 Yet if life in communities such as Uptown once again spool by in Technicolor, life in New Orleans East still plays out in black and white. 
 There's something ghostly about the area that, pre-Katrina, was home to about 90,000 people. Trees still lean on collapsed rooftops. Yellow insulation bleeds out of homes; gutters sit at odd angles, like fractured limbs. Everywhere, cars sit at whatever angle the floodwaters left them. 
 Virtually all of New Orleans East is still without electricity. Homes and businesses still have no drinkable water or working toilets --and will not for a minimum of six months, according to the city's Sewerage and Water Board. The only people in evidence are crews of men in hard hats, dressed in jeans and hooded sweatshirts and wearing bandanas across their faces, bandit-style. 
 ''When people talk about the city repopulating, it's all in Uptown New Orleans, it's on the West Bank, it's in the Quarter,'' Mr. McDonald said. ''None of this is repopulated.'' 
 The bad news for Liberty is also good news: The bank will not have to spend the cash it does not have to fix boarded-up branches in the eastern half of the city, nor will it need to dispatch the personnel it does not have in a tight labor market to staff outposts in deserted parts of town.
 Liberty's branches in the eastern half of the city lay in ruins. The floors are still strewn with broken glass. Desks and chairs and dead plants, all of them coated with a thin film of muck, lie toppled over. 
 The bank's operations center, a bunker-style building in New Orleans East that had formerly housed Liberty's main computer and paper files, is another disaster. The building took water almost to the roof, and now it is ''unsalvageable,'' Mr. McDonald said. 
 In far better shape is the bank's main headquarters, a six-story glass box located a few blocks from the operations center. That building, which Liberty had occupied for less than six months prior to Katrina, suffered both wind damage and flooding, but little damage above the first floor. 
 ''We were all set to move our computer center on to the third floor but'' -- Mr. McDonald never finished the thought. Instead he shook his head and chuckled. Last month the bank spent $500,000 on a new mainframe computer. He sees loss everywhere in the eastern part of the city, so what's another half-million dollars?
 To stop the mold from spreading inside the bank's main offices, Liberty is spending $1,500 a week on fuel to operate an emergency generator that blows dry air into the building. 
 Mr. McDonald has not taken similar steps to save his own home in Lake Forest Estates, a pricey section of New Orleans East. His was a handsome brick house complete with a swimming pool, an exercise room and two-car garage -- before it was flooded by at least four feet of water. Instead of trying to gut the home, as a small percentage of his neighbors are doing, he has given it up as ''destroyed.'' 
 It is no wonder. A dark, evil-looking mold has taken over the walls, and the home still smells as if bathed in fetid swamp water. 
 ''We'll retrieve whatever we can and start over,'' said Mr. McDonald, 62, who is married with three grown children. 
 Mr. McDonald had one additional stop to make after leaving New Orleans East. Liberty runs a small branch inside a supermarket in the Gentilly neighborhood. He had heard that the grocery store was planning on reopening by mid-November. That branch suffered little damage, so he figured on assigning a team of four people to run it -- the same number that had worked there prior to Katrina. 
 But that was before stopping by the store and driving around the neighborhood, a middle-class enclave just south of Lake Pontchartrain. He saw an occasional car in a driveway. He spotted a gardener working on someone's front lawn.
 But mainly he saw a community still in stasis. Large sections were flooded, and parts were still without electricity.
 ''Who's going to bank here?'' he asked. ''There are small signs of life, but it's spotty. It's spotty at best.'' By trip's end, he decided he would dispatch one person to that branch -- if he dispatched anyone at all. 

A Bank Rebuilds
 Articles in this series are examining the struggle by the Liberty Bank and Trust Company to recover from Hurricane Katrina. Five previous articles can be found online at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At a Liberty Bank branch, looters were not able to breach the vault. (Photo by Robert Caplin/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Alden J. McDonald Jr. at his home, which was devastated by flooding. (Photo by Robert Caplin/The New York Times)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK BRANCHES (90%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); PLASTICS (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MOLDS & FUNGI (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (69%); HURRICANES (67%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (62%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (60%); EXECUTIVES (55%); INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LIBERTY BANK & TRUST OF OKLAHAOMA CITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



498 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

In Europe, Disagreement Continues Over Whether Interest Rates Should Rise
The European Central Bank has settled the debate over when it plans to tighten credit, signaling a rate increase next week. The debate over whether it should do so rages on. The bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, left, has invoked the specter of rising inflation as the main reason to lift rates from 2 percent -- a level, he notes, that is historically low. Inflation in Europe is running at roughly 2.3 percent, above the bank's threshold of 2 percent. Some economists, however, forecast that it will fall back below 2 percent by next summer. [Page C1.] 


European stocks paced declines by stocks worldwide after a measure of German business confidence fell more than economists had predicted. DaimlerChrysler and Siemens were among the shares that fell. [C5.]

W.T.O. Chief Not Counting on a Consensus
Pascal Lamy, the new director general of the World Trade Organization, does not even plan to propose a comprehensive agreement before trade ministers from 149 nations and customs territories gather in Hong Kong on Dec. 13. Instead, Mr. Lamy intends to issue a fairly broad outline of where the different sides stand on a range of issues, said Keith Rockwell, the chief W.T.O. spokesman. ''He's not going to try to force a consensus that's not there,'' Mr. Rockwell said. [C1.]

An Ambitious Plan for a Chinese City
The extensive chemical spill in the Songhua River that threatens the water supply of Harbin in northeastern China has focused attention on the environmental and economic challenges faced by the country's withering rust belt. Long before Harbin's officials were forced to confront the contamination of the city's water supply, however, they had embarked on a radical step, one increasingly common among cities in China: they had begun efforts to move the center of the city north, across the winding Songhua, to a large plot of farm land. [C1.]

New Orleans Bank Continues Its Struggle
Nearly three months after Hurricane Katrina, reconstruction of the New Orleans economy is turning out to be slower and more complex than many people first thought, as businesses like Liberty Bank and Trust are discovering. Basic services like electricity, water and sewerage are still lacking in large swaths of the city, including the New Orleans East neighborhood, home to four of Liberty's eight New Orleans branches. [C1.]

At Lehman, a Different Kind of Risk Management
In preparing for the unlikely but frightening possibility of a bird flu pandemic, Lehman Brothers is focusing on two issues: how to enable people to work from home -- which requires resolving connectivity and technology issues -- and, as an industry, how to connect companies to one another to prevent a financial panic. Street Scene. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (87%); INTEREST RATES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (72%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (63%); HURRICANE KATRINA (61%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (50%); EPIDEMICS (50%); INFLUENZA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (61%); SIEMENS AG (56%); LIBERTY BANK & TRUST OF OKLAHAOMA CITY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (56%); SIE (LSE) (56%); SIE (FRA) (56%); SIE (BIT) (56%); SI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (73%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (91%) LOUISIANA, USA (91%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (70%) EUROPE (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



499 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-25

Iraqi Government Labors To Track Lost Prisoners
The Iraqi government has stepped up its hunt for insurgents, acting on tips from hot lines and rounding up suspects in neighborhoods near bombings. But the influx of new prisoners has overwhelmed the Iraqi authorities, human rights groups say. And while the scandal in Abu Ghraib prison ushered in reforms in American-run jails, the mushrooming Iraqi detention centers operate virtually unchecked. A1

In a rapidly growing prison population that now totals nearly 13,000 detainees in American military custody and another 12,000 held by Iraqi authorities, the American military is finding it difficult to distinguish insurgents from people rounded up who pose no security threat. 
 A1

Korean Cloner Admits Lying
The South Korean stem cell researcher who won world acclaim as the first scientist to clone a human embryo and extract stem cells from it apologized for lying about the sources of some human eggs used in his research. A1

Pope's Rule Takes Active Turn
For many church experts, Pope Benedict XVI's document banning most gay men from the priesthood was an overdue sign that his papacy would be an active one -- though perhaps quieter, more deliberative and more surprising than many expected when this very subtle man took office seven months ago. A3

Ancient Greenhouse Gases
Shafts of ancient ice pulled from Antarctica's frozen depths show that for at least 650,000 years three important heat-trapping greenhouse gases never reached recent atmospheric levels caused by human activities, scientists are reporting. A14

China Blames Oil Company
The Chinese government blamed the country's biggest oil company for a pollution spill that allowed a 50-mile slick of toxic benzene to reach a northern city of almost four million people and threaten the safety of its drinking water. A16

Iran Referral Delayed for Talks
The International Atomic Energy Agency delayed taking any action on Iran's nuclear program even as the British delegate said that a process described in documents offered to Iran ''has no other application other than the production of nuclear warheads.'' A24

U.S. to Close Italy Naval Base
The United States intends to close a base in Italy that is one of its two foreign naval bases that service nuclear submarines, a Navy spokesman confirmed. A10

E.U. Rebukes Israeli Policy
The European Union's diplomatic representatives in East Jerusalem and Ramallah have sharply criticized Israel's policies in East Jerusalem, saying they ''are reducing the possibility of reaching a final-status agreement on Jerusalem that any Palestinian could accept.'' A12

NATIONAL A26-34

Most States Experience Better Fiscal Outlooks
After four years of tight budgets and deepening debt, states from California to Maine are experiencing a marked turnaround in their fiscal fortunes. The windfall is leading to the restoration of school financing, investments in long-neglected roads and bridges, debt reduction and the return of money borrowed from cities and counties. A1

The Vanishing Light Poles
Some 130 aluminum light poles have vanished from Baltimore's streets in the last several weeks, the authorities say, presumably sold for scrap metal. But so far the case of the pilfered poles has stumped the police and left many local residents wondering just how someone manages to make off with a metal pole some 30 feet tall. A26

Ocean Water for Sale
A Japanese company, the Koyo USA Corporation, has begun bottling desalted water pumped from 2,000 feet below the surface of the Pacific Ocean, off the coast of Hawaii, and marketing it to Japanese consumers as the purest, most nutritious beverage on earth. It is selling so fast that Koyo is expanding rapidly to keep pace with demand. A30

Giving Thanks After Hurricane
It was not a traditional Thanksgiving on Salt Bayou. The hostess, who lost her house in Hurricane Katrina, has been sleeping in a van. And the turkey had to be cooked over a barbecue pit. But it was a celebration nonetheless for a band of survivors thrown together by the storm. A1

A Governor's Overstatement
Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico has admitted that his claim to have been a draft pick of the Kansas City A's in 1966 was inaccurate. The claim was included in a brief biography released when Mr. Richardson, a right-handed pitcher who played at Tufts University, successfully ran for Congress in 1982. A33

Nixon's Nuclear Worries
Widely considered a military hawk, President Richard M. Nixon fretted privately over the notion of any no-holds-barred nuclear war, newly released documents from his time at the White House reveal. The recently declassified papers show that Nixon wanted an alternative to the option of full-scale nuclear war. A26

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Balloon Accident Hurts 2 At Thanksgiving Parade
A giant balloon in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade, swinging out of control in sudden bursts of wind, struck a light pole in Times Square. Two spectators were injured in a replay of an accident in 1997 that had prompted pledges of safety reforms. A1

Conservative Party at Risk
The Conservative Party in New York, a minor party that has profoundly shaped the state's modern-day politics, is at risk of losing its place on the statewide ballot next year, political analysts say, and some Republicans are openly questioning the value of their longtime alliance with the party. B1

Four Injured in Fire
At least four people, including a city firefighter, were seriously injured in a blaze at an apartment building in Brooklyn that forced a 16-year old girl to jump out of a third-floor window, the authorities and residents said. B3

Neediest Cases B8

WEEKEND E1-36; E37-44

ESCAPES F1-8

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-6

Football Coach Files Suit
The football game between the East Brunswick Bears and the Old Bridge Knights in New Jersey appeared to offer a heaping helping of tradition. But it was not Thanksgiving Day as usual for the Bears, whose coach Marcus Borden filed a lawsuit earlier this week against East Brunswick Public Schools, alleging that the district, by barring Borden from praying alongside his players, has infringed on his constitutional rights. D1

OBITUARIES A37

Kingsbury Browne
A prominent Boston tax lawyer and outdoorsman whose initiative and knowledge of land trusts spared large and small swaths of the American landscape from headlong development, he was 82. A37

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Rift on Rates in Europe
A debate continues over whether the European Central Bank should raise interest rates, with a series of troubling economic reports seeming to challenge the notion that Europe is on a sustainable growth path. C1

Cities on the Move in China
Across China, dozens of cities, including Harbin in the northeast, are relocating their town centers or creating entirely new ones, hoping to revitalize their urban areas and cash in on the real estate surge. C1

Challenges for W.T.O. Chief
Pascal Lamy, the new director general of the World Trade Organization, faces a number of challenges as he tries to secure an agreement in global trade talks that have been deadlocked for four years. C1

Slow Progress After Katrina
The ongoing struggles of Liberty Bank and Trust, the largest black-owned bank in New Orleans, underscore how reconstruction of the city's economy is turning out to be slower and more complex than many people first thought. C1

Advertisers Turn to Blogs
New campaigns from Budget Rent a Car and Hasbro are a sign of the increasing appeal of blogs and other nontraditional media to once-conservative mainstay marketers. C2

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A38-39

Editorials: The million-year health standard; Bosnia, 10 years later; Verlyn Klinkenborg on demolition.

Column: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E28
TV List E34-35
Weather D7

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CLONING (90%); PRISONS (90%); NAVIES (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); CLIMATE CHANGE (86%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HUMAN CLONING (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); RELIGION (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); NAVAL VESSELS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); WATER POLLUTION (68%); BUDGETS (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); BENZENE (63%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (62%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ANTARCTICA (69%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%); ITALY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



500 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Hawaii Finds New Exportable Resource: Ocean Water

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

DATELINE: KONA, Hawaii 

 BODY:
For decades, tourists have paid thousands of dollars for the chance to surf, snorkel and splash in the crystalline waters here. Now they're paying $5.50 a bottle to drink it.
 In perhaps the most bizarre consequence of a failed municipal electricity experiment, a small Japanese company, the Koyo USA Corporation, has begun bottling desalinated water pumped from 2,000 feet below the surface of the Pacific Ocean and marketing it to Japanese consumers as the purest, most nutritious beverage on earth.
And the Japanese are buying it -- so much so that Koyo, which built its bottling plant in 2003, is expanding rapidly to keep pace with demand and to prepare for entry into the mainland American market. Meanwhile, four other companies have begun lining up to compete in the sweltering fields south of Kona International Airport, where Koyo set up shop. Rock crushers and bulldozers have been working feverishly in recent months, turning petrified lava rivers into factory-ready lots. 
 The sound of metal on lava is sweet music to state economic officials, who have long bemoaned the dearth of exports in Hawaii's economy after sugar and pineapple farmers failed to beat back foreign competition.
 ''When I first heard about this, my imagination wasn't big enough to handle it,'' said Mark Anderson, the acting deputy director of Hawaii's Department of Economic Development. ''But it looks like we have another product we can be proud of.''
 Mr. Anderson said that thanks to Koyo, bottled water had become the fastest-growing export in Hawaii, ''and might soon be in the top five, which is an amazing development.''
 If Hawaii becomes a water exporting giant, it owes a debt of gratitude to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. In 1974, as the nation was reeling from the effects of the Arab oil embargo, Hawaii created a Natural Energy Laboratory on 322 acres near the leeward shore of the Big Island.
 The idea at the time was to revive a theory proffered in the 1880's by Jacques-Arsene d'Arsonval, a French scientist who created a way to generate electricity by combining cold and warm water. The state hoped to take deep ocean water, at temperatures of roughly 50 degrees, and combine it with warmer surface water to generate steam. As in other power plants, the steam would set turbines spinning.
 The idea failed beyond the experimental stage. But the investment in a 2,000-foot-deep seawater pipeline did not go to waste. The state found that marine biologists and aquaculture businesses could use the water for commercial purposes. Among other things, companies have used the water to create controlled breeding tanks for fish, oysters and algae, from which some nutritional supplements are made. 
 Such supplements were part of the core business of Koyo, a 30-year-old Japanese company owned by Yasuki Takano. In 2001, Mr. Takano heard about Kona's pipeline and saw opportunity. Japanese companies had already been selling desalinated water from 600 feet below the Pacific.
 Those companies claim deeper seawater contains more nutrients and fewer pollutants than surface water. Kona's water, according to Koyo's chief operating officer, Kozo Kayama, is better because its source is deeper and older. 
 ''The water you're drinking is older than Jesus,'' Mr. Kayama said of Koyo's Mahalo water.
 Maybe not older than Jesus, but old enough. According to marine biologists, a current circulates below the 2,000-foot level from the shores of Greenland to the North Pacific, where it surfaces and begins its return journey. Biologists say the first half of that trip takes at least 1,000 years -- enough time, Koyo claims, to avoid the modern pollutants that sully surface water. Meanwhile, deep seawater contains traces of minerals like phosphorus and calcium that surface waters lack.
 Armed with a marketing message of purity and nutrition, Koyo sells every 1.5-liter bottle it currently makes for $5.50 apiece in Japan. Its plant produces 300,000 bottles a day, five days a week. When a new plant is finished next year, the company's capacity will reach 800,000 bottles. 
 The desalination technology is not sophisticated. ''It's like you'd find in someone's kitchen,'' Mr. Kayama said. ''Just much bigger.'' 
 The company expects to recoup its $20 million in setup costs later this year and expects to post its first annual profit. 
 Hawaii also benefits: Koyo pays about 1.5 cents per bottle to the state for the right to have the water pumped via a milelong underground pipe to its factory.
 With that success, of course, has come competition. Jan C. War, operations manager for the Natural Energy Laboratory of Hawaii Authority, which manages the 322-acre land through which the pipeline runs, said four other companies were either about to start bottling the water or had already begun. 
 Some of these companies hope, like Koyo, to find customers in the $8.3 billion American bottled-water market. But Gary Hemphill, senior vice president of the Beverage Marketing Corporation, a consulting firm in New York, said Koyo and other companies might find it difficult to sell their product for around $4 a bottle, as Koyo does, when waters like Fiji, at just under $2 a bottle, represent the extreme high end of the market. 
 ''It's not that they can't be successful,'' Mr. Hemphill said. ''It's just that the bulk of the market in the U.S. tends to be middle- and low-price brands. You really have to tell a compelling story to convince people to pay more.'' 
 After years of waiting, Koyo can finally tell that story here, after gaining approval from the Food and Drug Administration to sell its water where it is produced. (Mahalo is now available at Neiman Marcus in Honolulu, with a wider rollout expected next year.) Until Koyo came along, American regulators had never envisioned a time when consumers would pay to drink seawater, even if it came from Hawaii.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Koyo USA Corporation bottles water pumped from 2,000 feet under the ocean near Hawaii's Big Island. (Photo by Cory Lum for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); OCEANS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); BIOLOGY (77%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (77%); MARINE BIOLOGY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); CARTELS (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); NUTRITION (66%); PINEAPPLE PRODUCTION (66%); AQUACULTURE (62%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (60%); AIRPORTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (95%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



501 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: STATES' COFFERS SWELLING AGAIN AFTER STRUGGLES

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
After four years of tight budgets and deepening debt, most states from California to Maine are experiencing a marked turnaround in their fiscal fortunes, with billions of dollars more in tax receipts than had been projected pouring into coffers around the country.
 The windfall is a result of both a general upturn in the economy and conservative budgeting by state officials in recent years, and it is leading to the restoration of school funding, investments in long-neglected roads and bridges, debt reduction, and the return of money borrowed from cities and counties.
In Sacramento, officials are setting aside part of a multibillion-dollar revenue windfall to build up California's depleted cash reserves. Delaware has appropriated money for a pilot program for full-day kindergarten, and Florida will spend nearly $400 million on a new universal preschool program for 4-year-olds. Some states, including New York, New Jersey, Hawaii and Oklahoma, are pouring significant new sums into public colleges and universities after several years of sharp cutbacks. 
 One sign of the improved fiscal health, according to the National Association of State Budget Officers, is that only five states were forced to make midyear budget cuts, totaling $634 million, in the fiscal year that ended, for most states, on June 30. In 2003, by contrast, 37 states cut spending in the middle of the budget year, by a total of $12.6 billion, the association said. 
 But the good news is not universal and may prove short-lived. The Great Lakes States continue to be hammered by the loss of manufacturing jobs, and full recovery from the hurricanes in the Gulf Coast States will take years. 
 And experts warn that even though tax revenues are rising in most of the country, demands on state budgets -- particularly for education, health care and pensions -- are growing even faster. 
 ''The general picture is that revenue is coming in better than expected for quite a few states,'' said Scott Pattison, executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers.
 ''The problem,'' Mr. Pattison said, ''is that the states are like the guy who had been laid off and his income went way down, and now he's got a job again. But in the meantime, he put a lot of expenses on his credit card, his kids' tuition went up and he tapped into his retirement fund. That's exactly what a lot of states did.''
 During the lean years, states resorted to a lot of one-time fixes to balance their budgets while maintaining services. They cut spending, raised taxes, drew down their rainy-day funds, relied on federal programs, delayed payments to employee pension funds and borrowed heavily. Now they are coping with the hangover from those stopgap solutions.
 In California, for example, increased tax collections and the cumulative effect of state spending cuts produced a turnaround in the state's budgetary fortunes, to the tune of nearly $4 billion, according to analysts for the governor's office and the Legislature. Officials now project a surplus of $5.2 billion at the end of the current fiscal year, up from an earlier projection of $1.3 billion. But all of that excess revenue will be consumed during the coming fiscal year, and the state will find quickly itself back in the red unless Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and lawmakers agree on longer-term solutions to the chronic imbalance between revenue and spending.
 ''We still have to control the rate of growth in spending,'' said H. D. Palmer, spokesman for the California Department of Finance.
 Governor Schwarzenegger, a Republican, sponsored a ballot measure this fall that would have forced reductions in state spending when revenue fell short of projections, but it was soundly rejected by voters, who responded to heated warnings from state employee and teachers unions that it would mean steep cuts in education and other services. Mr. Palmer said the governor would work with the Legislature on another approach.
 The picture in New York is similar to that in California. New York entered the fiscal year that began in April with a projected deficit of $4.2 billion. Instead, because of a sharp rise in personal income taxes and capital gains receipts, the state now expects to end the year with a surplus of $1 billion, a $5 billion turnaround in one year. But Michael Marr, the communications director for the New York state budget office, said rapidly rising costs for Medicaid, education and other state programs demanded continued fiscal caution.
 New York City has also seen a significant brightening of its fiscal picture. Income, sales and real estate transfer taxes are coming in above forecasts, cutting the projected deficit for the next fiscal year to $2.25 billion from $4.5 billion, the City Hall budget office reported this week.
 New Jersey's finances, too, have benefited from the upturn in the economy and a relatively strong stock market, with state tax revenue growing at a double-digit rate over last year. New Jersey is one of several states considering tax cuts in the current fiscal year. The newly elected governor, Senator Jon Corzine, a Democrat, promised property tax relief in the recent campaign.
 Indiana is also considering property tax cuts, perhaps offset by an increase in cigarette taxes. Lawmakers in Utah are looking at ways to reduce sales or income taxes after the state took in $90 million more in taxes than anticipated in the first four months of the current fiscal year.
 Michigan's economy remains in the doldrums because of the deep slump in the auto industry, and its state budget woes have eased only slightly, said Jay Wortley, senior economist at the Michigan Senate Fiscal Agency. Revenues are expected to grow by a modest 3.2 percent in the current year over the year just ended, Mr. Wortley said. But that rate of growth will not begin to make up for five years of cutbacks in virtually all state services, he added.
 Mr. Wortley said prison costs were rising, local governments were not getting promised payments from the state and financing for state universities remained tight. The state is selling publicly owned property and is borrowing against anticipated revenue from the nationwide settlement with tobacco companies to make ends meet.
 Despite all that, Michigan officials are debating a package of business tax cuts to attract and retain high-technology companies to replace the jobs lost in manufacturing.
 State officials know that the tax cuts will create additional stress on the budget, Mr. Wortley said. ''But they feel they have to do something to turn the economy around,'' he said. ''The only thing state government can do to help business is to cut taxes.''
 And then there are Mississippi and Louisiana.
 Both states entered the current fiscal year on a high note. In Louisiana, oil and gas royalties were coming in at a record pace and sales tax revenue was growing at a double-digit clip. Mississippi ended the last fiscal year with a healthy surplus, and the current year began strong, with sales, corporate and individual income taxes exceeding estimates in July alone by $22 million.
 Then Hurricane Katrina hit in late August, followed by Hurricane Rita.
 ''In the absence of these storms,'' said Greg Albrecht, chief economist for Louisiana's legislative fiscal office, ''we were rocking and rolling. Just before they hit, we were sitting around saying, Look at all the money we're going to have. We were finally going to come back from the recession of 2001.''
 ''Then the storms came along and just pulled the rug out from underneath us,'' Mr. Albrecht said.
 Louisiana has emptied its rainy-day fund and cut $600 million from its $7.3 billion annual budget, and the state is still looking for ways to fill what has become a gaping hole in its finances. 
 Mississippi, which was also hit hard by Hurricane Katrina, took out a $500 million line of credit to make up for lost sales and income taxes and to provide disaster assistance to state residents. J. K. Stringer Jr., executive director of the Mississippi Department of Finance and Administration, said that despite the devastation after the storm, revenue rebounded in October because of heavy spending by federal workers, insurance companies and thousands of evacuees from neighboring Louisiana.
 But Mr. Stringer said the state faced unknowns that made it impossible to draft a budget for the coming year.
 ''We got things under control here,'' he said, ''other than three little unknowns: how much state revenue we're going to collect, how much this thing is going to cost us and how much money we're going to get from the feds.''
 ''Other than that,'' Mr. Stringer said, ''we've got a firm handle on things.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); TUITION FEES (76%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (66%); WEATHER (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



502 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Chicago Journal; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Such Sound and Fury! Tradition! Einsteins in Food Fight of Words

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
The international law expert declared hamantaschen a violation of the Geneva Conventions, symbolizing the eating of an ancient enemy. But the linguistics professor, posing as Plato, said Hermogenes, a k a hamantasch, ''clearly had the better idea'' than Cratylus, stand-in for latkes. 
 And the Irish statistician with the unpronounceable name -- the token non-Jew on this year's bill -- revealed secret data documenting a clear public preference for latkes.
''It's almost insulting to your intelligence to go through these,'' the statistician, Colm O'Muircheartaigh, a professor of public policy, said of the inscrutable table of numbers displayed on a big screen behind him that supposedly factored in freshness and whether the snacks were made by mother or other. ''So I won't.''
 As the law expert, Eugene Kontorovich, said, ''What's great about the Latke-Hamantasch Debate is that at a time when so much academic inquiry is spent on esoteric and irrelevant matters, the debate focuses on the big questions.'' 
 Big questions, indeed. Sweet or savory? Round or triangular? Baked or fried? 
 These and other profound ponderables have made the debate a sacred, if silly, annual tradition at the superserious University of Chicago since 1946, chronicled in a new anthology, ''The Great Latke Hamantash Debate'' (University of Chicago Press). At Tuesday's extravaganza, complete with costumes and a klezmer band, the book's editor, Ruth Fredman Cernea, welcomed a packed auditorium to ''a night of exquisite absurdity.'' 
 ''The things that make this what it is are so deep in Jewish tradition -- being able to laugh at yourself, being able to laugh at the seriousness of life,'' Ms. Cernea, an anthropologist, explained in an interview. ''In Jewish tradition, scholarship is serious, but it's also irreverent. Challenging the text, making fun of the text, is encouraged.''
 Hence, Mr. Kontorovich's extensive references to County of Allegheny v. A.C.L.U., 492 U.S. 573, 585 n. 26 (1989), what he called the Supreme Court's ''most recent and definitive pronouncement on potato pancakes.'' The idea is not so much to determine which iconic Jewish snack is superior -- the book leans heavily latke, as did Tuesday's debaters -- but to celebrate their very Jewishness and inject some levity into the lethal rigor of the campus.
 ''Nobody ever persuades anybody,'' said a laughing Ted Cohen, the philosophy professor who has made fun of speakers for two decades as the debate's moderator. ''I'm not at all clear what the point is, but it's certainly not that.''
 Mr. Cohen, for the record, is a latke man, favoring the potato pancake fried in oil that marks Hanukkah's miracle of a drop of oil lasting eight days. Hamantaschen, three-cornered Purim pastry most often filled with prune or poppy, represent the ears (or hat or purse, depending whom you ask) of the evil Haman, whose plot to kill the Jews was unraveled. The debate always comes just before Thanksgiving -- just before the onset of first-term final examinations and the frigid Chicago winter. 
 It started as a fireside schmooze in the living room of the Hillel House, a postwar vehicle for Jewish students and faculty members to celebrate their culture rather than squelch it. By 1965, the crowd of 700 was more than double the number that attended High Holy Day services on campus. Now, the tradition has spread to more than a dozen campuses.
 Here at Chicago, where 15 percent of the 4,500 undergraduates -- and, Mr. Cohen estimated, ''112 percent'' of the faculty -- are Jewish, it overflows the largest auditorium, with devotees pinning ''I 3/5sheart 4/5 Hamentaschen'' buttons on their T-shirts, including ones that proclaim U.C. the university ''where fun goes to die.'' Despite its reputation, Mr. Cohen noted, Chicago is not only where the atom was first split but also where Second City, the improvisational comedy giant, was born -- not that long after the latke-hamantasch debate.
 Among the eminent Hyde Park humorists -- and debaters -- highlighted in the book are the Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman, who said the matter could be settled by the equation L=qH2/3; Hanna Holborn Gray, then the university's president, who explained that Machiavelli was not only Jewish but loved the latke; and Allan Bloom of the Committee on Social Thought, whose talk was titled, not surprisingly, ''Restoring the Jewish Canon.'' 
 There have been dissertations on ''The Hamantasch in Shakespeare'' and ''The Hermeneutics of the Hamantasch;'' feminist critiques that take both sides (Judith Shapiro, now president of Barnard College, suggested that Haman was a transvestite, ''his aggressive machismo'' overcompensation); and odes like this one by the linguist Edward Stankiewicz:
 But I, I am in a blissful state
 When I see a well-stacked latke plate.
 And what is in a hamantasch?
 A hamantasch is but a nash!
 On Tuesday, the debate began in the audience even before the speakers, in academic robes and funny hats, paraded with all their pomp and circumstance under the competing latke and hamantasch banners.
 ''They made hamantasch Republican!'' said Will Cohen, 19, a sophomore sociology major, recalling in horror a political analogy from last year's debate.
 His friend Al Shaw, 20, who is studying philosophy, said, ''They should be,'' adding, ''They're doughy.''
 Mr. Cohen, betraying his blue-state sympathies, countered, ''But the latkes are greasy and slimy.'' 
 Mr. Shaw interrupted, ''And working class,'' adding, ''Only the rich elite eat a hamantasch.''
 Onstage, one debater used the latke-hamantasch divide as a metaphor for Chicago's baseball rivalry, vilifying the Purim pastry as the poppy-laced North Side scourge that accounted for the slugger Sammy Sosa bulking up when he abandoned the White Sox for the Cubs. 
 Mr. Kontorovich, the visiting law professor, said he had been constructing his argument in his head for at least a decade, since his days as an undergraduate here, while Mr. O'Muircheartaigh, who began his talk in Gaellic, said he tasted the first latke of his life -- and hamantasch, too -- after last year's debate. 
 Long before Rabbi David Rosenberg, the Hillel director, counted the postdebate ballots -- 72 latke, 44 hamantasch, 2 disqualified for unexplained reasons -- the winner was clear: people were searching the empty chafing dishes for scraps of burnt potato, while boxes of hamantaschen sat yet unopened.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Latke? Hamantasch? Some in the audience just couldn't make up their minds.
 Carmel Levy, left, with Eugene Kontorovich, a law professor who had just weighed in on the 59th annual latke-hamantasch debate. (Photographs by Sally Ryan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LINGUISTICS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PHILOSOPHY (67%); INTERVIEWS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



503 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Rebuke Israeli Jerusalem Policy

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
The European Union's diplomatic representatives in East Jerusalem and Ramallah have sharply criticized Israel's policies in East Jerusalem, saying they ''are reducing the possibility of reaching a final-status agreement on Jerusalem that any Palestinian could accept.''
 In an unpublished report presented to European Union foreign ministers, the representatives recommend a more aggressive European stance toward Israeli policies in East Jerusalem, whose annexation by Israel has not been recognized by the European Union or the United States. 
 The report, a copy of which was sought by The New York Times and obtained from someone who wanted to publicize it, accuses Israel of increasing illegal settlement activity in and around East Jerusalem and of using the route of its separation barrier ''to seal off most of East Jerusalem, with its 230,000 Palestinian residents, from the West Bank'' and to create a ''de facto annexation of Palestinian land.''
 In general, the report asserts, ''prospects for a two-state solution with East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine are receding,'' and it warns that ''Israeli measures also risk radicalizing the hitherto relatively quiescent Palestinian population of East Jerusalem.''
 The European Union diplomats, who deal with the Palestinians, made a number of recommendations, including having political meetings with Palestinian Authority ministers in East Jerusalem instead of in the West Bank, as they currently do, and requesting Israel ''to halt discriminatory treatment of Palestinians in East Jerusalem, especially concerning working permits, building permits, house demolitions, taxation and expenditure.''
 Last Monday in Brussels, European Union foreign ministers issued a statement expressing ''grave concern'' about Israeli policies ''in and around East Jerusalem, including construction of the separation barrier, settlement building and house demolitions.''
 But the ministers decided not to release or acknowledge the report at a delicate time in European-Israeli relations, instead asking for a ''detailed E.U. analysis on East Jerusalem to be adopted and made public'' at their next meeting in mid-December. European countries, as well as the United States, keep embassies to Israel in Tel Aviv, while maintaining consulates in East Jerusalem and Ramallah to deal with the Palestinians.
 Marc Otte, the European Union's special representative to the Middle East peace process, played down the report, saying that it was a routine response to a request to keep foreign ministers apprised of trends in East Jerusalem. The ministers also request and receive reports about Kosovo and Iran, he said.
 ''There was no report on the table,'' Mr. Otte said in an interview. ''There's nothing exceptional or extraordinary about it. It's not like ministers of foreign affairs lie awake at night thinking about a report on East Jerusalem. They get lots of reports.''
 Mr. Otte emphasized that with the European Union plan to put observers in Gaza to monitor the Rafah crossing between Egypt and Gaza -- starting on Saturday -- the European Union ''is actively involved in helping disengagement with people on the ground and a lot of money.'' 
 The Europeans know that most Israelis regard them as pro-Palestinian, an attitude that the East Jerusalem report is bound to reinforce. But Mr. Otte said that the Europeans had serious criticism of the Palestinians, too, especially on the topic of security and terrorism. 
 Europe is committed to the document known as the road map as the only path toward peace, he said.
 ''There is no European crusade here,'' he said. ''Our relations with Israel are very improved, more operational and pragmatic. But it's our obligation as a member of the quartet to monitor events on the ground.'' Israeli officials would only speak anonymously because they had not seen the report and it is still an internal European Union document. 
 ''The foreign ministers decided not to publish the report and not to act on it now,'' a senior Israeli Foreign Ministry official said. ''Officially, it's an egg not born yet, and our assessment is that with the Israeli election campaign starting this week and the good moment of European involvement in Rafah, the Europeans decided that this is not the right moment to open up Jerusalem as an issue.''
 The official acknowledged that Israel and Europe disagreed about the legal status of East Jerusalem and of Jewish settlements within it.
 Israel does not regard the Jewish inhabitants of East Jerusalem as settlers. Israel seized East Jerusalem from Jordan in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war and later annexed it, promising that the city would never again be divided. Both the Europeans and the United States oppose any measures that would prejudge the outcome of a peace treaty, including the status of East Jerusalem.
 ''We claim full sovereignty over Jerusalem, and the Europeans think East Jerusalem is occupied territory,'' the official said. ''But to say that the timing is wrong is an understatement. My guess is that it will be put aside.''
 What exercises Israeli officials is the suggestion that European diplomats and ministers renew contacts with Palestinian Authority ministers in East Jerusalem, and not in Ramallah. In the past, European envoys met Palestinian politicians at the Orient House in East Jerusalem, but after a terrorist attack in 2001, Israel shut down all Palestinian Authority institutions in East Jerusalem.
 The first stage of the dormant road map calls for these Palestinian institutions to be reopened. But Israel remains strongly opposed to the idea.
 The report says that Israel is making it increasingly difficult for Palestinians to travel between East Jerusalem and the West Bank. ''Israel's main motivation,'' the report asserts, ''is almost certainly demographic -- to reduce the Palestinian population of Jerusalem, while exerting efforts to boost the number of Jewish Israelis living in the city.'' 
 The report is particularly explicit about what it terms ''increasing settlement activity'' in three areas in and around East Jerusalem. 
 The first area is formed by new Jewish neighborhoods in the Old City and in the surrounding Palestinian neighborhoods, including Silwan, Ras al-Amud, Wadi al-Joz and Sheik Jarrah. The second is in existing East Jerusalem neighborhoods running from Ramot and French Hill through the new Israeli neighborhoods to East Talpiot, Har Homa and Gilo. And the third is in ''greater Jerusalem,'' which links the city to the settlement blocs of Givat Ze'ev to the north, Maale Adumim to the east and Gush Etzion to the south.
 The Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, says the larger settlement blocs will remain a part of Israel in any final settlement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); PROPERTY ANNEXATIONS (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); EUROPE (95%); ISRAEL (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); BELGIUM (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



504 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Jordan's King Tells New Premier to Fight Militants and Back Change

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
King Abdullah II of Jordan appointed a new prime minister on Thursday, urging him to adopt a tough stance against Islamic militancy but to ensure that political liberalization is not jeopardized. 
 The new prime minister, Marouf al-Bakhit, 58, had held the post of national security adviser since Nov. 15. The king asked him to form a new government to address security concerns that had increased after the triple suicide bombings that killed 60 people on Nov. 9, officials said. Mr. Bakhit is a former ambassador to Israel with a long career in military intelligence.
 ''We have to speed up adopting a law that counters terror in all its forms,'' the king said in a designation letter to Mr. Bakhit. He added that the nation must ''fight an all-out war on schools of thought that thrive on bigotry, extremism and feed on the ignorance of simple and naive people.'' 
 Mr. Bakhit is expected to form his government in the next few days. He was named hours after his predecessor, Adnan Badran, 69, an academic educated in the United States and appointed last April, resigned along with his government. He had been criticized for pushing a pro-Western reform agenda while ignoring tribal sensitivities.
 Security concerns have become a priority here after the suicide bombings at three luxury hotels on Nov. 9. Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, whose leader, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, is a Jordanian, has claimed responsibility for those attacks. The blasts have harmed Jordan's reputation as one of the most stable countries in the Middle East. 
 Senior officials say that the appointment of Mr. Bakhit signals that King Abdullah wants to give more influence to old-guard military figures who have a reputation for integrity and are untainted by corruption.
 Officials say King Abdullah will rely on Mr. Bakhit to win support for economic and political changes from the conservative establishment. Its members are the backbone of the king's power base, and they fear that accelerated changes could erode their grip on power.
 One senior official said Mr. Bakhit ''will balance security concerns with the need to push forward his majesty's reform agenda to move the country toward greater political liberties.'' 
 The change in government is part of a wider shuffle that had been planned for months but was probably accelerated by the bomb attacks. The changes included bringing in new advisers to the king this month, a move under which Mr. Bakhit was appointed national security adviser.
 Tough criticism of Mr. Badran by Parliament has been viewed as the most direct challenge to King Abdullah since he took the throne in 1999.
 Political insiders said the king had been frustrated with conservative politicians with extensive powers who had tried to slow democratic changes. Most powers rest with the king, who appoints governments, approves legislation and can dissolve Parliament. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); POLITICS (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); RELIGION (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%) JORDAN (96%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



505 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Bosnia, 10 Years Later

 BODY:
Anniversaries have the effect of forcing people to take stock of neglected problems. Ten years ago, an agreement cobbled together at an Air Force base near Dayton, Ohio, put an end to a brutal civil war in Bosnia. The war among Bosnian Muslims, Catholic Croats and Orthodox Serbs left 200,000 dead and millions homeless, so the agreement was hailed as a triumph. But the price of peace was to leave Bosnia a broken country of two entities and 10 cantons, with three presidents. One reason it has muddled along since then is that a lot of power is still vested in a foreign overseer backed by foreign troops. 
 Fortunately, the 10th anniversary of Dayton has prompted American and European officials to start thinking about what to do next. Last month an agreement was reached to begin building a national police force. Over the weekend, Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, brought Bosnian politicians together in Washington and got them to agree to work on constitutional changes. They also agreed to press for the capture of the two most-wanted war criminals from the Bosnian conflict, Radovan Karadzic and Gen. Ratko Mladic. Bringing them to trial would be an important sign that the Bosnians are really moving on.
 The task of building a real country out of a battlefield in which former combatants still live largely apart and identify more with their separate tribes than with a country called Bosnia and Herzegovina is daunting. The absence of an effective central government for the past decade has prevented the development of the economy, with the result that unemployment is at about 40 percent and the majority of people subsist on a gray or black market.
 Ten years ago, the foreign mediators, led by the American diplomat Richard Holbrooke, managed quite a feat in wrenching the Bosnians from one another's throats. But the Dayton accords have outlived their usefulness and have become an obstacle to Bosnia's development. 
 So long as the Bosnians remain wards of the international community, they will only slide away from their place among the new nations of Europe. The Bosnians themselves have to take it from here, and the first step is to accept that their only future lies in coming together in a more effective central government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); POLITICS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WAR CRIMES (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); RELIGION (72%); POLICE FORCES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (92%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CROATIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



506 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: China Blames Oil Company For Benzene Spill in River 

BYLINE: By DAVID LAGUE; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: HARBIN, China, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
The Chinese government on Thursday blamed the country's biggest oil company for a pollution spill that allowed a 50-mile slick of toxic benzene to reach this northern city of almost four million people on the river that normally supplies it with running water.
 Residents continued to stockpile bottled drinking water on Thursday, the second day after the authorities shut down the municipal water system and stopped pumping from the Songhua River to minimize the risk of poisoning. 
 Schools and many businesses remained closed, and restaurants in the city center were mostly empty late Thursday as the environmental disaster led the authorities to mount an investigation that could prompt a criminal charges.
 Authorities in Harbin, the capital of Heilongjiang Province, assured residents that adequate supplies of drinking water would be trucked in and warned them to watch for the symptoms of benzene poisoning. 
 They said that the slick was expected to have passed the city by Saturday and that normal water service could resume by Sunday.
 China has also warned Russia about the toxic spill, which is being carried toward Khabarovsk, on Russia's border.
 An explosion on Nov. 13 at a China National Petroleum Corporation plant in Jilin Province, 236 miles upriver from Harbin, spewed an estimated 100 tons of benzene compounds into the Songhua River, Chinese authorities said.
 The state news media reported that five people had been killed in the blast, which was a few hundred yards from the riverbank. As many as 10,000 people were temporarily evacuated.
 ''We will be very clear about who's responsible,'' said Zhang Lijun, deputy director of the State Environmental Protection Administration, at a news conference in Beijing. ''It is the chemical plant of the C.N.P.C. in Jilin Province,'' he said, referring to China National Petroleum. 
 Mr. Zhang said the investigation would consider whether there was any criminal liability for the spill.
 PetroChina Company, a subsidiary of the state-owned China National Petroleum listed in New York and Hong Kong, is responsible for the company's domestic petrochemical production, the China National Petroleum Web site says. China National Petroleum holds 90 percent of PetroChina's shares.
 The official New China News Agency reported that China National Petroleum had apologized. The company ''deeply regrets'' the spill and will take responsibility for handling the consequences, the deputy general manager, Zeng Yukang, was quoted as saying. The vice governor of Jilin Province, Jiao Zhengzhong, also apologized to the people of Harbin, The Beijing News reported Thursday.
 The contamination of one of China's major rivers has drawn attention to the environmental price that the country is paying for a three-decade economic boom. Living standards have sharply risen in many regions of China, particularly the provinces on the east coast, but severe environmental degradation threatens further development.
 China's major cities are among the most polluted in the world, and vast tracts of farmland are being lost to erosion, desertification and industry.
 However, the pollution of vital rivers, lakes and groundwater in China, which is already short of water, looms as the biggest immediate threat, environmental specialists say.
 Even before the benzene spill, the Songhua River had serious problems with water quality, the Asian Development Bank said. 
 The bank is helping local authorities develop plans for pollution control on the river.
 The environmental impact of development is also leading China's authoritarian government to become increasingly open with a public that has become more vocal about pollution and ill-considered industrial projects. Private environmental organizations are flourishing and have occasionally persuaded authorities to block development or revise development plans.
 Provincial and central government environmental agencies reported that benzene and nitrobenzene contamination much higher than allowed levels had been detected upstream from Harbin.
 The official China Daily reported Thursday that specialists had said that the authorities had no choice but to cut water supplies to the city.
 ''Harbin's move to cut off the water supply was not a knee-jerk reaction,'' Zhang Lanying, an environmental specialist at Jilin University, was quoted as saying.
 ''If the contaminated water had been supplied to households, the result would have been unimaginable.'' 
 The spill could also have diplomatic repercussions as it heads toward the point where the Songhua River joins the Heilongjiang River, which then crosses the Russian border in the region of Khabarovsk, about 340 miles from Harbin.
 Russian officials have begun testing water in the Heilongjiang River. Senior Chinese officials rejected suggestions that it had been unfair to wait until this week to inform Russia about the spill.
 Mr. Zhang, from the Environmental Protection Administration, said it would be another 14 days before the contamination reached the Heilongjiang. ''So we don't think we were late in providing information,'' he said.
 A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Liu Jianchao, said that the Russian Embassy in Beijing was briefed twice this week and that the two sides had set up a hot line to share information.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pei Ziyao, 3, waited with his mother yesterday for clean water in Harbin, after the water system was shut to guard against benzene poisoning. (Photo by Reuters)Map of China highlighting Harbin: Harbin, a city of four million, is struggling without running water.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); BENZENE (91%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); POISONINGS (90%); AROMATICS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); RIVERS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); PETROCHEMICALS (78%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (77%); BOTTLED WATER (77%); WATER QUALITY (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PETROCHINA CO LTD (84%); CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (83%)

TICKER: PTR (NYSE) (84%); K3OD (SGX) (84%); 0857 (HKSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (83%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTHEAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (91%); JILIN, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



507 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Bad For the Country

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
''What was good for our country,'' a former president of General Motors once declared, ''was good for General Motors, and vice versa.'' G.M., which has been losing billions, has announced that it will eliminate 30,000 jobs. Is what's bad for General Motors bad for America?
 In this case, yes. 
Most commentary about G.M.'s troubles is resigned: pundits may regret the decline of a once-dominant company, but they don't think anything can or should be done about it. And commentary from some conservatives has an unmistakable tone of satisfaction, a sense that uppity workers who joined a union and made demands are getting what they deserve.
 We shouldn't be so complacent. I won't defend the many bad decisions of G.M.'s management, or every demand made by the United Automobile Workers. But job losses at General Motors are part of the broader weakness of U.S. manufacturing, especially the part of U.S. manufacturing that offers workers decent wages and benefits. And some of that weakness reflects two big distortions in our economy: a dysfunctional health care system and an unsustainable trade deficit. 
 According to A. T. Kearney, last year General Motors spent $1,500 per vehicle on health care. By contrast, Toyota spent only $201 per vehicle in North America, and $97 in Japan. If the United States had national health insurance, G.M. would be in much better shape than it is.
 Wouldn't taxpayer-financed health insurance amount to a subsidy to the auto industry? Not really. Because most Americans believe that their fellow citizens are entitled to health care, and because our political system acts, however imperfectly, on that belief, tying health insurance to employment distorts the economy: it systematically discourages the creation of good jobs, the type of jobs that come with good benefits. And somebody ends up paying for health care anyway.
 In fact, many of the health care expenses G.M. will save by slashing employment will simply be pushed off onto taxpayers. Some former G.M. families will end up receiving Medicaid. Others will receive uncompensated care -- for example, at emergency rooms -- which ends up being paid for either by taxpayers or by those with insurance.
 Moreover, G.M.'s health care costs are so high in part because of the inefficiency of America's fragmented health care system. We spend far more per person on medical care than countries with national health insurance, while getting worse results.
 About the trade deficit: These days the United States imports far more than it exports. Last year the trade deficit exceeded $600 billion. The flip side of the trade deficit is a reorientation of our economy away from industries that export or compete with imports, especially manufacturing, to industries that are insulated from foreign competition, such as housing. Since 2000, we've lost about three million jobs in manufacturing, while membership in the National Association of Realtors has risen 50 percent.
 The trade deficit isn't sustainable. We can run huge deficits for the time being, because foreigners -- in particular, foreign governments -- are willing to lend us huge sums. But one of these days the easy credit will come to an end, and the United States will have to start paying its way in the world economy.
 To do that, we'll have to reorient our economy back toward producing things we can export or use to replace imports. And that will mean pulling a lot of workers back into manufacturing. So the rapid downsizing of manufacturing since 2000 -- of which G.M.'s job cuts are a symptom -- amounts to dismantling a sector we'll just have to rebuild a few years from now.
 I don't want to attribute all of G.M.'s problems to our distorted economy. One of the plants G.M. plans to close is in Canada, which has national health insurance and ran a trade surplus last year. But the distortions in our economy clearly make G.M.'s problems worse.
 Dealing with our trade deficit is a tricky issue I'll have to address another time. But G.M.'s woes are yet another reminder of the urgent need to fix our health care system. It's long past time to move to a national system that would reduce cost, diminish the burden on employers who try to do the right thing and relieve working American families from the fear of lost coverage. Fixing health care would be good for General Motors, and good for the country.

Thomas L. Friedman is on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); IMPORT TRADE (87%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); POLITICS (73%); MEDICAID (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (69%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



508 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Nixon Was Torn by Prospect Of Nuclear War, Papers Show

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
Widely considered a military hawk, President Richard M. Nixon fretted privately over the notion of any no-holds-barred nuclear war, newly released documents from his time at the White House reveal.
 The recently declassified papers, from the first days of the Nixon presidency in 1969 until the end of 1974, show that Nixon wanted an alternative to the option of full-scale nuclear war -- a plan for a gentler war, one that could ultimately vanquish the Soviet Union while avoiding the worst-case situation.
 The papers provided a glimpse behind the scenes at efforts to find choices other than ''the horror option,'' as the national security adviser, Henry A. Kissinger, called the worst-case scripts for all-out nuclear war that were then in place. 
 Qualms about causing so much death were hardly the only motivation. American officials worried that their nuclear threat lacked credibility because it was so awful that adversaries questioned whether the United States would ever use it.
 In a 1969 diary entry, Nixon's chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, recalled the president's taking part in an exercise that day aboard the Boeing 707 outfitted to conduct nuclear warfare from the air.
 ''It was pretty scary,'' Mr. Haldeman wrote. The president asked many questions about ''kill results,'' he wrote, adding about his boss: ''Obviously worries about the lightly tossed-about millions of deaths.''
 The picture was pieced together by William Burr, a researcher at the National Security Archive at George Washington University, from papers released by the National Archives as well as documents obtained under the Freedom of Information Act.
 The documents reveal Mr. Kissinger's chilling insight that government budget-crunchers would prefer complete nuclear warfare because it was already planned for and would be cheaper than recasting American capabilities to permit limited strikes.
 ''They believe in assured destruction because it guarantees the smallest expenditure,'' he said in August 1973 at a National Security Council meeting in the White House Situation Room. ''To have the only option that of killing 80 million people is the height of immorality.''
 The papers show Mr. Kissinger struggling with a reluctant military and intelligence apparatus to sell them on the idea of limited nuclear strikes. Many doubted that the Soviet Union would settle for a tidy little nuclear war. They feared that a conflagration would quickly follow, devouring cities and killing millions.
 But until Nixon took up the matter, the only options in the nuclear playbook involved the highest stakes possible and unspeakable death, and that apparently unsettled him even as he engaged North Vietnam in a war that was claiming civilian casualties.
 By one official estimate, the United States, even if crippled by unprovoked Soviet missiles, could retaliate with missiles killing 40 percent of the Soviet population, or 90 million people. Many more would be killed if the United States struck first. That estimate remains classified.
 Countless studies flowed from the effort to expand nuclear options to include ''smaller packages.'' But it was not until 1974, the year Nixon resigned in the Watergate scandal, that he signed a directive setting that process in motion.
 Mr. Burr said the United States eventually achieved an expanded range of nuclear options, in part because of the development of more accurate missiles and other weapons.
 Historically, Nixon is known as ''unsentimental and sort of callous in some ways,'' Mr. Burr said, but the documents also show a president ''worried about the huge number of casualties involved.''
 But the prime concern may have been the credibility of the American threat. Mr. Burr noted that the narrower options under review singled out centers of the Soviet government and economy, not just military assets, and that any such attack would have created untold casualties, too.
 Mr. Kissinger pushed the idea even as the Watergate crisis unfolded. ''My nightmare is that with the growth of Soviet power and with our domestic problems, someone might decide to take a run at us,'' he said at a meeting in August 1973.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); BUDGETS (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOEING CO (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); VIET NAM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



509 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: How to Botch A Share Sale, French Style

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
FRENCH investors take hope. Maybe the Socialists will bail you out of your folly and buy back the shares you so eagerly purchased. 
 The largest initial public offering in Europe this year, Electricite de France, raised 7 billion euros, or $8.2 billion. It reinforced stereotypes of French workers and disappointed the buyers of shares in France's dominant electric utility.
French capitalism is, of course, a little different from the Anglo-Saxon variety. In the United States, employees celebrate when their companies sell shares to the public. In France, the workers stage protests. That makes sense to the unions. They fear that with private ownership their civil service pay and retirement benefits could be jeopardized. 
 Last year, when the French parliament was debating the law that made this offering possible, workers took job actions that included ripping the electric meter out of the home of France's prime minister. No one was arrested, and no one lost their job for that creative job action, although the prime minister was later replaced for other reasons.
 The current prime minister, Dominique de Villepin, duly reaffirmed that ''it is the state's duty to retain control of E.D.F. over the long term,'' but that did not pacify the unions. The opposition Socialist Party vowed to buy back the stock if it wins the next election. That may be the investors' best hope.
 As E.D.F. began trading, Mr. Villepin had another labor problem to deal with. Workers at SNCF, the national railroad, went on strike to demand that they never be subjected to the same indignity of having investors own stock in their company. President Jacques Chirac was quick to offer reassurances. 
 If it were not for the workers and their power, E.D.F. might be attractive as an investment. It is making good money, thanks to high oil prices that allow it to raise rates on the nuclear power it generates. 
 It has expanded aggressively around Europe, although the results of that are not yet clear, and the government has largely protected it from competition in France, notwithstanding European rules.
 To be sure, those who sneer at French privatizations looked foolish when Gaz de France, the gas utility, leaped 23 percent to 28.50 euros ($33.69) on the first day of trading, after being sold to individual investors for 23.20 euros. Much of that gain has since vanished, however.
 E.D.F. was priced at 33 euros for institutional investors and 32 euros for individuals, in keeping with the European practice of seeming to offer a bargain to retail investors. But institutions shied away, and individuals got 69 percent of the shares, instead of the planned 50 percent. Nearly five million individuals signed up, perhaps spurred by reminders of the Gaz offering. 
 This time the fast profits went to the short-sellers, a group that seems to have included more than a few hedge funds. They have since traded as low as 30.80 euros, but they bounced back, perhaps as shorts closed out positions, and ended Thursday at 31.46 euros.
 The French system has allowed rail and utility workers to hold on to well-paid jobs with good benefits while keeping away the damaging possibility of competition for the employers. But, as was brought home by recent riots, it has done so at the cost of high unemployment and poor prospects for those not in the system, including many Arab youths.
 Buyers of E.D.F. are betting the company can continue to enjoy protection from real competition while cutting labor costs. It is not hard to understand why institutional investors found that wager resistible.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the daily offering price for Electricite de France (individuals and institutions) since Monday.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); STRIKES (89%); EURO (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICS (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); ARRESTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GDF SUEZ SA (81%); ELECTRICITE DE FRANCE SA (EDF) (58%); STE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER FRANCAIS (SNCF) (54%)

TICKER: GSZ (PAR) (81%); GSZ (BIT) (81%); EDF (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (81%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (58%); SIC4939 COMBINATION UTILITIES, NEC (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS482112 SHORT LINE RAILROADS (54%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (54%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (59%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



510 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Street Scene; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Risk Management, for the Highest Stakes 

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Thomas A. Russo, the general counsel of Lehman Brothers, was working out one October morning when he got a call from Marty Evans, chairwoman of the American Red Cross and a member of Lehman's board. The two briefly discussed Lehman before shifting to New Orleans, where Ms. Evans was on the ground dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. She said the situation was dire, but added that the effects of a bird flu pandemic would dwarf even the devastation caused by a storm like Katrina. 
 Mr. Russo, who was preparing a speech on risk management for the Securities Industry Association, took note. Since then, he has discussed the potential dangers of bird flu with everyone from President Bush to Wall Street rivals. 
The result? Lehman Brothers, a firm that was forced out of its building in lower Manhattan by the Sept. 11 attacks, has a team of technology executives, doctors and members of management studying the health, technology and industry implications in the event of a flu pandemic. 
 ''Two or three pandemics a century are not uncommon,'' said Mr. Russo, noting that the same preparations could be used for crises other than bird flu. ''People aren't going to want to go where there are other people, so we need to be able to work without going to work.''
 Wall Street prides itself on risk management. Mathematicians create models to predict how much money could evaporate under a variety of scenarios. In the aftermath of Sept. 11, Wall Street firms ramped up their disaster recovery planning. Disasters like the Asian tsunami prompted firms to hone their ability to locate employees on holiday, and the rise of cyber threats have inspired much investment and work to defend internal data systems. 
 But bird flu requires something that Wall Street can, at times, be short on: imagination. Avian flu remains chiefly a bird disease. There have been about 130 human cases reported, more than half of whom have died, all of them in Asia. 
 An epidemic in New York, however remote the chance, would have an enormous impact. Employees who feared that they were sick would not be allowed to come to work -- a concept that would be difficult to impart to Wall Street's notoriously Type A professionals. And the business of Lehman -- executing trades, underwriting securities and managing money -- might not get done. 
 Lehman is focusing on two issues: how to enable people to work from home -- which requires looking at connectivity and technology issues -- and, as an industry, how to connect companies to each other to prevent a financial panic.
 ''In the case of a pandemic, bringing people together could be the issue,'' said Bridget O'Conner, Lehman's chief technology officer and one of the main executives working on the bird flu scenario. ''We have a disaster recovery site, but if we have people who are afraid to go to work, it won't help us.''
 Enabling people to trade from home creates formidable challenges, both technological and regulatory. Ms. O'Conner is considering options from the use of Internet telephony to the creation of a common address book that would allow workers to find one another. 
 ''The challenge is, how do I move the borders of the firm's network?'' Ms. O'Conner said. ''We all have to be in the game because without each other, we don't have a market.''
 Every Wall Street firm has committees examining bird flu issues from quarantines of employees to the availability of antiviral drugs.
 A strain of bird flu labeled H5N1 first appeared in humans in Hong Kong in 1997. More than 200 million birds have died from this strain, which has a fatality rate among birds of almost 100 percent and kills them within 24 to 48 hours.
 A pandemic is characterized by a highly virulent strain of virus that infects humans, makes them ill and spreads easily from human to human. There is no evidence that humans can pass bird flu to one another, but H5N1 mutates rapidly.
 Ms. Evans, the American Red Cross president and Lehman board member, applauds Lehman management for going beyond just thinking about the issue.
 ''If it's a coffee shop, you close down and just shutter it and absorb the losses,'' she said. ''But when you are talking about a worldwide financial network, the premium, the reward, will go to the companies who figure out how to participate in that network even if a point is significantly impacted.''
 Hurricane Katrina offered evidence that the response to even the most anticipated of crises -- the flooding of New Orleans -- could be abysmal. The challenge is shifting the mindset from ''if'' to ''when.''
 ''The possibility of an outbreak of bird flu could be as high as 5 percent, but it's certainly not zero percent,'' Mr. Russo said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bridget O'Conner, Lehman's chief technology officer, is working on the company's response to a pandemic. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 Earlier this week, a worker disinfected ducks in China's Anhui province. (Photo by China Newsphoto, via Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIAN INFLUENZA (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (76%); TSUNAMIS (76%); DISASTER PLANNING (76%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HURRICANES (72%); BIRDS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); CYBERCRIME (68%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); TROPICAL STORMS (56%) 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (91%); SECURITIES INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%) Lehman Brothers; American Red Cross

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Martin (Dr) Evans; Jenny Anderson; Bridget O'Connor

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) LOUISIANA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (67%); ANHUI, CHINA (57%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



511 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: The Fed, Political Animal

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Alan S. Blinder (''Are the Fed Fights Over?,'' Op-Ed, Nov. 20) doesn't mention an important power factor in why Republicans and Democrats can now agree that the Fed should both fight inflation and promote high employment: 
 The crippling of the union movement by the combined efforts of corporations and Republicans over the last 35 years means that high employment levels are less likely to lead to increased employee power.
 High employment in a low-wage, nonunion economy is politically tolerable because it does not lead to increased bargaining power for workers, who can be laid off or forced to take wage or benefit cuts if need be. 
 Monetary policy remains as much of a political mechanism for controlling the work force as it is a way to regulate the economy.

G. William Domhoff
Santa Cruz, Calif., Nov. 20, 2005

The writer is a research professor of sociology at the University of California, Santa Cruz.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); LABOR FORCE (87%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); WRITERS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: G William (Prof) Domhoff; Alan S Blinder

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (85%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



512 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: European Shares Fall in Tandem With World Markets

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
European shares paced declines by stocks worldwide yesterday after a measure of German business confidence fell more than economists had predicted. DaimlerChrysler and Siemens were among the shares that fell. 
 United States exchanges were closed yesterday for the Thanksgiving holiday, and they will close early today. On Wednesday, stocks in the United States rallied as growing consumer confidence raised investors' expectations for the holiday shopping season.
The Morgan Stanley Capital International World index, which tracks about 1,800 stocks globally, dropped 0.1 percent yesterday, to 1,242.69.
 Europe's Dow Jones Stoxx 600 index lost 0.3 percent, slipping from its 3 1/2-year high. In western Europe, national indexes fell in all 18 markets except Spain, Austria and Portugal. Germany's DAX retreated 0.2 percent. France's CAC 40 dropped 0.5 percent, and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 slid 0.4 percent.
 The MSCI EAFE index of developed markets in Europe and the Far East declined 0.3 percent.
 The Ifo confidence index, derived from a monthly survey of 7,000 German executives, declined to 97.8 this month amid pessimism among retailers and prospects for higher interest rates and tax increases.
 Economists had expected the Munich-based institute's indicator to drop to 98.6, according to the median of 44 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Germany is Europe's biggest economy.
 DaimlerChrysler, the fifth-largest automaker in the world, fell 0.9 percent. Siemens, the biggest engineering company in Germany, lost 0.5 percent.
 Royal Dutch Shell, the second-largest oil company in Europe, dropped 0.9 percent. Eni, Europe's fourth-largest oil company, lost 0.5 percent in Milan.
 Brent crude futures in London fell 1.5 percent amid speculation that United States and European heating fuel stockpiles are large enough to meet demand. Oil did not trade in New York yesterday.
 Canada's benchmark stock index surged the most among the world's developed markets, rising 1.3 percent. Shares of Royal Bank of Canada gained 3.5 percent on a government plan to raise a dividend tax credit.
 In Latin America, Brazil's Bovespa index slipped yesterday, ending a six-session winning streak. Mexico's Bolsa index was little changed.
 Among Asian markets, Japan's Nikkei 225 stock average added 0.2 percent for its sixth consecutive increase, the longest winning streak in five months, led by technology companies including Advantest. The country's exchanges were closed for a holiday on Wednesday.
 The MSCI Asia-Pacific index, which tracks more than 1,000 companies, slipped 0.1 percent, even as all markets in the region except Taiwan rose.
 Financial shares dragged the benchmark lower. Bank stocks already reflect earnings prospects, according to analysts. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, the world's largest lender, declined 1.3 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FUTURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); TAX INCREASES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (69%); ENGINEERING (64%); INTEREST RATES (51%) 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (85%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (80%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (63%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); ADVANTEST CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; Ifo Institute

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (85%); SIE (LSE) (85%); SIE (FRA) (85%); SIE (BIT) (85%); SI (NYSE) (85%); RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); MTU (NYSE) (80%); 8306 (TSE) (80%); RY (TSX) (63%); RY (SWX) (63%); RY (NYSE) (63%); ATE (NYSE) (51%); 6857 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334515 INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING & TESTING ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); MEXICO (92%); BRAZIL (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); TAIWAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); AUSTRIA (56%) Europe; Germany ; Canada; Brazil; Mexico; Japan; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2005



513 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: The Anger And Shock Of a City's Slave Past

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
They have the awkwardness of amateur home videos: background noise, long silences, people looking away from the camera. But inside a booth at the New-York Historical Society, visitors to the exhibition ''Slavery in New York'' are recording their reactions, creating snapshot reflections on race and history in the nation's largest city. 
 ''It allows our young people to understand, really, how this city was born and who carried the brunt of the prosperity that we see in New York, not only then but now,'' a black man from ''Harlem, New York,'' said of the show, the largest in the museum's 201-year history. The man, who appeared to be in his 30's, said he wanted to know what businesses in the city today derived profits in the past from selling human beings.
A white lawyer went into the booth twice to sort out his feelings. ''This has just been devastating,'' he said. As he looked at the exhibition's array of documents, he said, he realized that the some of the laws used to isolate and dehumanize enslaved black New Yorkers became custom after the laws vanished and ''contributed to the way whites look at blacks,'' even today. 
 ''It's striking for any of us who are New Yorkers to realize that the ground we touch, every institution, is affected by slavery,'' he said. 
 Two young African-American brothers crammed into the booth together. ''Slavery in New York was bad, and it's how New York became the richest city in the world,'' one of them declared. 
 The exhibition, which illustrates the centrality of 200 years of slavery to the growth of New York City, opened on Oct. 7 and runs through March 5. The very idea of slaves walking the streets of what is now SoHo or of slave auction blocks in Lower Manhattan -- in a city known for tolerance and diversity -- has attracted people of varied races and ages. There are no specific attendance figures yet, but museum officials said the exhibition galleries had been packed and attendance was up 83 percent over the same period last year, when the museum presented an exhibition on Alexander Hamilton. 
 The $5 million slavery exhibition features more than 400 artifacts, documents, paintings and maps spanning 9,000 square feet in 10 galleries. Visitors can see advertisements for runaway slaves and ''negroes, to be sold''; caricatured drawings of blacks; items like chairs and cribs made by slave hands; and a 1644 document granting slaves ''half freedom'' and land around what is now Washington Square. 
 The visitor response booth is at the end of the exhibition. There, visitors touch a blue-screened computer asking questions about what they have seen: their overall impression, how it added to or altered their knowledge on the subject, what they found noteworthy. They then look at the camera and speak their answers. 
 ''This is a much more qualitative way of knowing who's coming to the museum,'' said Richard Rabinowitz, the show's curator. ''We really wanted to let people talk and think through things. We wanted people to frame a meaning for this as they leave.'' Museum officials plan to use those responses to figure out what and how people learn from such exhibitions. 
 So far, about 400 responses have been videotaped. Some will become part of the ''visitor reaction'' monitors now in three galleries, which showcase selected people who previewed the show.
 In one, for example, a middle-aged white woman says the exhibition can make a difference. ''A difference when you look at a black person on a subway train,'' she says, ''or you're working next to a black person, that you have a little more empathy and understanding and also praising for how far so many people came.'' 
 In the raw videotape, the names given are not clear, one has to guess at ages and there is no consensus on what people found most noteworthy about the show. Some said they were shocked to learn that some slaves fought with the British during the Revolutionary War (in a bid for freedom); others said they had discovered that George Washington owned slaves; and some mused that New York City slavery was no more benign than the Southern variety. 
 After all, slaves in New York worked sunup to sundown. Slaves helped build the wall on Wall Street (and were sold there) and built the first City Hall and Trinity Church. Slavery was the lifeline for hundreds of city businesses. During British rule, about 40 percent of the city's households owned slaves. Institutional exhibitions about America's slave-holding past are relatively new and help foster a national conversation about race, said James Oliver Horton, the chief historian for ''Slavery.'' This show's size and location facilitate that dialogue, he said. 
 ''Back in the 90's, when Bill Clinton asked for a national conversation about race, most people didn't have the context in which to have the conversation,'' said Dr. Horton, a professor of American studies and history at George Washington University. ''This exhibition will help Americans have such a historical context. It will help people start with a common experience.''
 One commonality that emerges from viewing five hours of the visitor videotapes is how much people do not know. Many were unaware of the existence or extent of slavery in New York, which lasted until 1827, longer than in any other Northern state except New Jersey.
 ''It's terrible to know that the city that I love was part of the slave trade,'' said a middle-aged white woman from New Jersey. ''I'm shocked to hear about it.'' 
 An African-American man in the booth with his young daughter said: ''It's just a constant reminder that here in New York, like in other places in the United States, we were nothing more than cattle in the eyes of the owners and were treated that way. It's just amazing that people were able to survive and thrive after that.''
 An elderly white woman who said she had two college degrees said, ''I never knew until I walked in here about slavery in New York.'' Now, she said, ''It just breaks my heart.''
 An African-American woman who identified herself as a graduate of Cornell University said, ''I've actually had people tell me that black people in New York had no history.''
 ''I can now feel that I have information I can share,'' she said.
 A middle-aged white woman who said she lived down the street from the museum noted that her daughter's advanced placement courses in history included only one hour about slavery. ''It made me realize how history doesn't go away,'' the mother said of the exhibition. ''These burdens are carried through generations.''
 Clearly, schools are failing to educate students about slavery, said Louise Mirrer, the society's president. Dr. Mirrer said she would be gratified to see the public schools use the educational materials developed by the society for ''Slavery.''
 While most visitors are admirers, the exhibition comes in for some criticism, too. Some said it was saturated with facts but failed to convey slavery's brutality. One woman wondered why she did not see a single shackle. Dr. Rabinowitz said it was an informed decision to let the facts speak, without graphic depictions of beatings or family separations. 
 But in the reaction booth, a young black man from Harlem argued that the show should be enraging. ''Why are there ghettos in New York City? Because of slavery,'' he said. He learned many facts from the show, he added, but wanted explicit connections between race and class. ''The ramifications of slavery still affect the world,'' he said. ''It's not something to be put in the past, like dinosaurs or fossils.''
 An African-American woman from Washington complained, ''The soul of it was completely gone.'' She added, ''It was spoken about as if it was any economic phenomenon instead of human.'' 
 But some people caught on camera said the show had certainly made them think harder about skin color and the echoes of the past. 
 A woman from Chicago, who described herself as an artist and a second-generation Slovakian, said the exhibition helped her in that way. She watched two African-American children playing in the museum, and it dawned on her that in another time they would have been slaves. ''They had no choice,'' she said. ''They had no power.'' 
 And after learning that at one time 20 percent of New Yorkers were enslaved, the artist said, she went to the lobby of the grand Historical Society building and began imagining the past. ''I'd look around and look around,'' she said, ''and one in five people would be a slave.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A photograph of a slave, Caesar, who outlived three masters is among the 400 artifacts and images in the ''Slavery in New York'' exhibition. (Photo by New-York Historical Society)(pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); SLAVERY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PAINTING (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%) Slavery; Recordings (Video)

ORGANIZATION: New-York Historical Society

PERSON: Felicia R Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



514 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Syria to Let Officials Be Questioned in Lebanon Assassination

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Warren Hoge contributed reporting from the United Nations for this article.

DATELINE: CAIRO, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
Heading off a direct confrontation with the United Nations Security Council, Syria has agreed to allow five officials to leave Damascus to be questioned in Vienna by the prosecutor investigating the assassination of the former Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri.
 The announcement of a deal between Syrian officials and the prosecutor, Detlev Mehlis, was first made in Damascus on Friday and later confirmed in a short statement issued by the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, in New York. 
 ''The secretary general is very pleased at the outcome of Mr. Mehlis's discussions with the Syrian authorities, and he expects their cooperation to continue throughout Mr. Mehlis's investigation,'' the statement said.
 In Damascus, the vice foreign minister, Waleed al-Muallem, held a news conference to announce the deal that called for setting the location in Vienna, and not Lebanon, as Mr. Mehlis had originally asked for. Mr. Muallem also suggested that Mr. Mehlis had guaranteed that none of the officials would be arrested or detained while abroad -- a detail that Mr. Mehlis's office refused to confirm or deny.
 ''In light of the guarantees handed over to Syria, which came in harmony with what Syria was seeking, and after the leadership studied the results of the meetings, it has been agreed to inform Mehlis of our acceptance to his compromise that the venue of listening to the five Syrian persons in the U.N. headquarters is Vienna,'' Mr. Muallem said.
 With just three weeks to go before Mr. Mehlis is scheduled to present his final investigative report to the Security Council, Syria has managed at least to diminish the charge that it has refused to cooperate with the investigation into Mr. Hariri's assassination. In a preliminary report to the Council last month, Mr. Mehlis presented evidence that cast suspicion on top Syrian officials, suggesting that the assassination was planned and carried out by top government officials.
 The report presented statements from witnesses that implicated Asef Shawkut, President Bashar al-Assad's brother-in-law and the head of military intelligence, as well as Maher al-Assad, the president's brother, who heads the presidential guard. The authorities in Damascus, at the United Nations in New York, and at Mr. Mehlis's office refused to say if Mr. Shawkut or Maher al-Assad were among the five officials who would be sent to Vienna for questioning.
 When he presented his report, Mr. Mehlis also sharply criticized Syria, saying it had failed to cooperate with the investigation -- a charge Syrian officials said was surprising and, they contended, more a case of miscommunication between the parties. Syrian officials have insisted that Mr. Mehlis's initial report was politically motivated and that all of the parties identified are innocent.
 After Mr. Mehlis presented his interim report, the Security Council warned Syria to cooperate or face the prospect of further action, which was taken to mean economic sanctions.
 Initially, Mr. Mehlis had asked to interview top Syrian officials in Lebanon, a condition that the Syrian government adamantly refused to accept. The prospect of sending its top officials to Lebanon for questioning was both humiliating for Syrian leaders, who had ruled over Lebanese affairs since the end of the civil war there, and risky in that the Lebanese authorities might have arrested or detained the officials.
 In Damascus, the vice foreign minister said his government had received ''reassurances'' about respect for Syrian sovereignty and ''guarantees concerning the rights of the individuals'' to be questioned and to return to Damascus after interrogation.
 The United States ambassador to the United Nations, John R. Bolton, welcomed the compromise between Syrian officials and Mr. Mehlis. ''We hope this Syrian cooperation continues and grows,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WITNESSES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ARRESTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) SYRIA (95%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



515 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: To See How Gold Is Doing, Check the Rest of the Market

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
GOLD is in a bull market, approaching $500 an ounce for the first time since 1987, and there is talk that the move shows renewed fears about inflation. Gold bugs say it may be that people are starting to lose faith in central banks to preserve the value of paper currencies, while others see evidence of growing demand for gold jewelry as Asia grows richer. 
 But perhaps it shows something else entirely. For the last three years, since the world settled down from the technology stock boom and bust, gold has traded suspiciously like just another American stock. If the stock market goes up, so does gold. And ditto if the stock market goes down.
One of the accompanying charts shows the value of gold in the conventional way, measured in dollars an ounce, over the last decade. It shows a price that slipped in the late 1990's, hitting bottom at $253.70 on Aug. 25, 1999, and then a gradual bull market began, with the price almost doubling since then.
 That is a reasonable way to price gold, but for those considering it as an investment, it does not show how gold has performed relative to alternatives. The other chart provides the answer. It shows the price of an ounce of gold divided by the level of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. If the line is falling, then stocks are doing better than gold. If it is rising, then gold is a better investment over that period. 
 Gold was a poor investment in the 1990's, but was an excellent store of value as the stock market was tumbling after the bubble burst in 2000. It continued to do better than stocks for a few months after the stock market hit bottom in the fall of 2002. But those gains fell away, and stocks have traded in a narrow range relative to gold since then.
 Since the end of September 2002, as the stock market was hitting bottom, the S. & P. 500 is up 56 percent. But over the same period, the nearby gold future has risen 52 percent. Gold and stocks have not marched in lock step over that period, but neither have they moved very far apart. 
 The interesting question is why that should be, and whether it will continue. A possible explanation is that this is an era with an excess of capital available for investment. That explains low interest rates and rising prices for many investments, from stocks to gold. Since the end of September 2002, the major stock market indexes in the United States, Britain, Japan and Hong Kong, measured in dollars, are up 56 percent to 67 percent, none of them very far from the change in gold. The real proof of a bull market in gold will come when, or if, it resumes an ascent that is impressive not only when measured in paper currency, but also when measured against alternative investments.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Is gold soaring ''Gold price, in dollars per ounceGraph tracks Gold price in dollars per ounce since 1996.or just matching stocks?Gold price, in number of S.& P. 500 stock units needed to buy an ounceGraph tracks Gold price, in number of S.&P. 500 stock units needed to buy an ounce since 1996.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); BONDS (77%); FINE JEWELRY (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (60%) Gold; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (90%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



516 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Of Dollars, Deficits and Destiny

 BODY:
The United States' gap in trade and other international transactions is on track to reach an unprecedented $788 billion in 2005. The federal budget deficit, meanwhile, remains intractable. Normally, that would make investors wary of holding dollars. But the dollar, which had been in a long swoon, has unexpectedly recovered in the second half of this year. 
 That is good news for the ''deficits don't matter'' crowd in the White House and Congress. For them, the stronger dollar is evidence, of sorts, that the country can run outsize deficits without suffering their worst effects, namely, sharply higher interest rates, unrelenting downward pressure on its currency and a drop in living standards.
But the dollar's upswing will not last forever. This year, the dollar has been juiced partly by American companies' repatriation of hundreds of billions of dollars from abroad. That will end soon because the money has flowed home to qualify for a one-time tax discount, valid only in 2005. 
 More significantly, the dollar has been buoyed recently by a surge of foreign investment in the United States. Lured by interest rates that are higher than elsewhere in the developed world, foreign investors -- mainly Asian central banks and offshore hedge funds -- have snapped up more than enough Treasury notes and other American assets to finance our widening deficits. 
 Inevitably, the United States will lose its interest rate advantage. The European Central Bank is about to raise rates, while Japanese rates have nowhere to go but up. When other countries can compete more effectively for foreign financing, the United States will still need to finance its deficits, thus provoking the ill effects it has avoided so far.
 It is obvious that the administration and Congress should be taking advantage of this easy- money period to rein in deficits. Waiting to do so will make dealing with them much more painful. And yet, the Republican leadership in both the House and Senate have pledged to pass more unpaid-for tax cuts when they return to Washington in mid-December. The House's tax and spending cuts, taken together, would increase the federal budget deficit by an estimated total of $7.7 billion over five years; in the Senate versions, the deficit increase would total $31.8 billion.
 In their zeal to cut taxes, many lawmakers baldly assert that more tax cuts are vital for economic growth. Tax cuts don't work that way when a country is already running big deficits and has looming obligations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%) Editorials; Taxation; United States Economy

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



517 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Mardi Gras to the Rescue? Doubts Grow.

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
After Hurricane Katrina floored this city, there was widespread hope that Mardi Gras would yank New Orleans back to its feet, helping to reclaim its spirit, its tourists and its economy.
 The two weeks of Mardi Gras parades and parties have for decades been the city's binding cord, bringing together all segments of society and thousands of outsiders for a mix of the sacred and the profane. But with planning for the February Carnival season now under way, Mardi Gras has been plagued by harsh financial realities, indecision, lowered expectations and the possibility that this year's parade lineup could be absent some of its most popular krewes, or social clubs.
After the city announced plans for smaller and fewer Mardi Gras parades, dissatisfied krewes protested. Responding to the pressure, an advisory panel to Mayor C. Ray Nagin recommended Wednesday that an additional weekend be included in an abbreviated Mardi Gras parade season. The mayor is expected to agree to a pre-Lenten Carnival season of eight days, instead of the customary 12, culminating Feb. 28 on Mardi Gras Day (known in English as Fat Tuesday).
 Yet while city officials and merchants are desperate for symbols of recovery and renewal, some residents are concerned about the message that will be projected when New Orleans holds a giant party in a hurricane's catastrophic wake. 
 The coming Mardi Gras will celebrate 150 years of New Orleans's parade tradition and, officials hope, provide a fiscal bloody mary for a hung-over economy that has suffered a shutdown of vital tourism and a layoff of half of the municipal work force.
 Mardi Gras pumps $1 billion directly and indirectly into the local economy each year, the equivalent of several Super Bowls, city officials say.
 While Carnival is intended to signal that New Orleans is open for business again, residents say they also need the celebration for themselves, to affirm the city's essence -- a piquant improvisation evident in the food, music, irreverence and self-indulgence.
 ''If not one tourist comes to town, Mardi Gras will still serve its initial purpose -- entertaining local people,'' said Ed Muniz, founder and captain of the Krewe of Endymion, which holds one of the largest and most lavish Mardi Gras parades. ''I think the locals need a celebration of life. The funeral has got to end, and the recovery has got to begin.''
 City and Mardi Gras officials say they are confident that the 2006 Carnival season can be of high quality. But several issues, mostly financial, remain unresolved. 
 At a tense planning meeting on Monday, Warren J. Riley, the acting police superintendent, said his department welcomed Mardi Gras, understood its social and financial importance and could provide adequate protection for paradegoers. But Superintendent Riley also said there was no money budgeted to pay overtime to New Orleans's 1,442 police officers. All parades will have to follow one route, down St. Charles Avenue, and each day's parading can last no longer than eight hours, he said.
 ''We do not have $5 for overtime,'' Superintendent Riley said, explaining that such costs ran as high as $300,000 to $400,000 on weekends during Mardi Gras.
 The city reconsidered that position on Wednesday, saying it was seeking to raise an additional $1.5 million to extend Mardi Gras over two weekends and to pay for overtime on several days. Krewes have agreed to relax a prohibition on corporate sponsorship of Mardi Gras, but say they will not allow corporate logos on floats.
 Wednesday's recommendation came after warnings by krewes that 10 parades might be canceled or moved. Mr. Muniz, the Endymion captain, said Monday that plans to trim Mardi Gras were sending a message to tourists ''not to come.'' He threatened to move his parade to adjacent Jefferson Parish.
 ''I want to be in New Orleans, but if I've got to cut my parade in half, I'm not going to parade in New Orleans,'' said Mr. Muniz, whose krewe has 2,300 members.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Muniz said he felt assured that overtime money would be raised to accommodate his parade in full. 
 The Krewe of Zulu, established in 1909 and representing a cross section of African-American society, will decide on Dec. 4 whether to participate in the coming Mardi Gras. Many of the krewe's 500-plus members lived in the heavily damaged New Orleans East section and remain out of town and out of contact, said Andrew Pete Sanchez, the club's chairman of Carnival activities.
 ''The feeling is mixed,'' Mr. Sanchez said. ''Those who have returned home support participation. Those in opposition want to be able to come home first.''
 The decorated coconuts thrown by Zulu's members are among the most distinctive and sought-after Mardi Gras trinkets. ''There's no Mardi Gras without Zulu,'' said Arthur Hardy, a Carnival historian and publisher of a definitive Mardi Gras guide. ''They're just too much part of the celebration.''
 Among other possible casualties are the Mardi Gras Indians, African-Americans who dress in elaborately feathered costumes in honor of Indians who helped runaway slaves. The Mardi Gras Indians celebrate with theatrical confrontations among ''tribes,'' but some find themselves short of the material and thousands of dollars needed to make their costumes, said Alfred Doucette, big chief of the Flaming Arrows tribe.
 ''I don't have no more supplies,'' Mr. Doucette said. ''I need feathers and stuff.''
 His costumes require 10 pounds of ostrich feathers that cost about $5 apiece, Mr. Doucette, a singer, said, explaining that it had been difficult to find work as a musician since Hurricane Katrina struck in August.
 Speaking of other chieftains, he said, ''They would like to come, but they're short on money this year.''
 If African-American participation is severely curtailed, Mardi Gras may run the risk of further delineating the class and racial divide exposed after the hurricane. 
 No one seriously considered canceling Mardi Gras in 2006. That would have been ''a big blow to the psychology of New Orleanians,'' said Wayne Phillips, curator of costumes and textiles at the Louisiana State Museum here. ''It is not just a frivolous celebration of costumes and beads, but an ingrained part of our psyche.''
 Still, locals acknowledge, the approaching Mardi Gras will require a delicate balance that validates a city's spirit without minimizing the devastation and dislocation wrought by Hurricane Katrina.
 Some said they worried that outsiders might receive conflicting signals from scenes of partying and drinking in a disaster area at a time when New Orleans has its hand out for billions in federal money.
 ''I have mixed feelings,'' said Barry Barth, a float builder. ''I want my business to go on, but I don't think the rest of the country understands Mardi Gras. I'm concerned they're going to see it as a waste of money instead of New Orleans coming back. Or they may say, 'These guys don't look like they're that bad off.' ''
 City and Mardi Gras officials point to a study indicating that the 2000 Carnival season generated $55 million in tax revenue for local, parish and state governments, including $21 million for New Orleans itself, a nearly fivefold return on the $4.5 million spent on police, sanitation and emergency services.
 New Orleans expects to have 22,000 hotel rooms available for tourists in February. Even with a scaled-down Mardi Gras, ''we can't afford not to do it,'' said Blaine Kern, the city's largest float builder, who is known as Mr. Mardi Gras.
 If only half of the usual tax revenue is generated, Mr. Kern said, ''that's still something.''
 The more satirical krewes are certain to skewer politicians who have been widely criticized for the government response to Hurricane Katrina. According to sketches of the Krewe of Muses parade, its television theme will lampoon Mayor Nagin, who faces re-election in February, as a star in ''The Ex Files'' and ''Sixty Feet Under.'' 
 The canine Krewe of Barkus will celebrate animals rescued after the hurricane and is exploring the theme of ''A Street Dog Named Desire.'' About 700 dogs are expected in the parade, along with a tabby cat, several ferrets and a goat. As usual, the queen will arrive by riverboat to be greeted by a king awaiting with Champagne and a gift, perhaps a rhinestone-encrusted paw-print brooch.
 ''All this will be forgotten when the first float rolls,'' Mr. Hardy, the Mardi Gras historian, said of the current crisis. ''The story is not that New Orleans will have a smaller Mardi Gras, but that it can do Mardi Gras at all.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The huge Mardi Gras crowds of 2004, right, will be only a memory in 2006. Alfred Doucette, above, saved a feathered staff from Hurricane Katrina. Barry Barth, left, salvaged only 40 percent to 50 percent of his papier-mache floats and figurines. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
(Photo by Alex Brandon/The Times-Picayune, via Associated Press)
 (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARDI GRAS (93%); PARADES & MARCHES (92%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); WEATHER (78%); LAYOFFS (69%); OVERTIME (64%) Carnival (Pre-Lenten); Mardi Gras; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Carnival (Pre-Lenten)

PERSON: Jere Longman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (96%) LOUISIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



518 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE LINES SET AS NEW YORK ACTS TO CUT EMISSIONS

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
New York is adopting California's ambitious new regulations aimed at cutting automotive emissions of global warming gases, touching off a battle over rules that would sharply reduce carbon dioxide emissions while forcing the auto industry to make vehicles more energy efficient over the next decade.
 The rules, passed this month by a unanimous vote of the State Environmental Board, are expected to be adopted across the Northeast and the West Coast. But the auto industry has already moved to block the rules in New York State, and plans to battle them in every other state that follows suit.
Environmentalists say the regulations will not lead to the extinction of any class of vehicle, but simply pressure the industry to sell more of the fuel-saving technologies they have already developed, including hybrid systems that use a combination of electricity and gasoline. And that, they say, will curtail one of the main contributors to global warming.
 ''The two biggest contributors to global warming are power plants and motor vehicles,'' said David Doniger, a senior lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''If you deal with them, you deal with more than two-thirds of the problem.'' 
 But automakers contend that the regulations will limit the availability of many sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks, vans and larger sedans, since they will effectively require huge leaps in gas mileage to rein in emissions. The industry also says the rules will force them to curb sales of more-powerful engines in the state, and ultimately harm consumers by increasing the cost of vehicles.
 The standards are the most ambitious environmental regulations for automobiles since federal fuel economy regulations were enacted in the 1970's. They will be phased in starting with 2009 models and require a roughly 30 percent reduction in automotive emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by the 2016 models.
 The new rules will also effectively require an improvement in fuel economy on the order of 40 percent for vehicles sold in the state.
 Ten states follow or plan to follow California's air quality rules, which have previously focused on auto emissions that cause smog, and the latest set of rules would for the first time limit carbon dioxide emissions. And as the largest of the 10 states, New York is being closely watched as it institutes the new rules.
 If all 10 states and California succeed in enacting the rules, they will form a powerful alternative regulatory bloc accounting for about a third of the nation's auto sales. 
 ''That is so much of the market it should reach a tipping point,'' Mr. Doniger said. ''It won't make sense for the automakers to build two fleets, one clean and one dirty.''
 New Yorkers will certainly notice the regulations should they survive the court challenges. The state estimates that the rules will increase the cost of a new car or truck by more than $1,000 when fully phased in, an amount it expects car owners to recoup over time through savings at the pump. Vehicles will need to comply with the new standards to be registered in the state.
 In early August, more than three months before the regulations were even adopted, automakers from Detroit to Tokyo joined in a suit to block them, making New York the latest legal front in the industry's fight against the measures. After California adopted the regulations in their final form in September 2004, automakers sued in state and federal courts, where the battle is still playing out.
 California, unlike other states, has special authority to set its own air quality rules because it did so before passage of the federal Clean Air Act. Other states can pick California's tougher regulations over Washington's. 
 ''If the California regulation actually were in effect today, only a handful of models would meet it,'' said Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, which includes Toyota, General Motors and several other major automakers. 
 Judith Enck, a policy adviser to Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, said she expected more challenges on many fronts, with automakers battling New York every step of the way. ''We're ready for them to file a lawsuit if the state sneezes,'' she said. 
 An analysis by the State Department of Environmental Conservation said it would take one to five years for drivers of cars, smaller sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks to make up for the higher initial cost of their more fuel-efficient vehicles, assuming a gas price of $2 a gallon. For drivers of heavier S.U.V.'s and pickups, it would take one to three years.
 But automakers estimate that the regulation will add about $3,000 to the cost of new cars and trucks and be hard to make up over time. To comply, they say, they will have to restrict sales of their vehicles with the poorest mileage, or redesign them to add new technologies, or to be more aerodynamic and lighter in weight. 
 ''The California legislation would hurt the most the people that rely on large cars, pickups, S.U.V.'s and minivans,'' Ms. Bergquist said. 
 Environmental groups say the rules can be met with technology already on the shelf. 
 ''They said that seat belts would put them out of business; they said that air bags would put them out of business; they said fuel economy and emissions regulations would all put them out of business,'' said David Friedman, a senior analyst at the Union of Concerned Scientists. 
 ''It turns out it's their unwillingness to innovate that's putting them out of business right now,'' he added, referring to the current struggles of General Motors and Ford Motor Company. 
 The legal battles do come at an awkward time. After years of saying that customers cared little about gas mileage, automakers are rushing to assert their green credentials as oil prices have risen. G.M. and Ford have been particularly scarred by the sales slump of their large sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks. 
 In a recent advertisement that has appeared in The New York Times and in many other publications, Ford's chairman and chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., promoted his company's plan to sell 250,000 vehicles next year that can run on a corn-based ethanol blend instead of on gasoline, and 250,000 hybrid vehicles annually by 2010.
 ''Innovation is our mission,'' the advertisement said, adding that the company was building ''smarter, safer, more fuel-efficient vehicles.''
 Industrywide, however, the gas mileage of the average new vehicle sold in the United States is below what it was two decades ago, because leaps in efficiency have been overtaken by increases in the weight of vehicles and in the power of their engines. 
 The 10 states that either follow California's car rules or are in the process of adopting them are New York, Maine, New Jersey, Vermont, Massachusetts, Oregon, Washington, Rhode Island, Connecticut and Pennsylvania. 
 While states are supposed to follow all of California's car rules or stick with Washington's, in practice that has not always been the case. The administration of Gov. George E. Pataki, however, has been an early supporter of the global warming regulations, getting approval from the State Environmental Board on Nov. 9. (The rules do not need to be approved by the State Legislature.)
 Many of the industry's legal arguments against the rules are likely to be drawn from a playbook automakers have used in California. One contention is that the regulation of tailpipe emissions is superseded by Washington's authority to regulate fuel economy. Regulators in California have countered that they have authority to take action on any emissions threatening public health.
 While global warming and what contributes to it have been controversial issues in the United States, a wide body of international science has linked it to health and environmental dangers, including increases in rates of asthma and infectious disease and threats to coastlines from rising sea levels. 
 The auto industry does not dispute the issue of global warming, but says policies should be set nationwide, rather than at the state level. President Bush has shown little inclination to do that, having rejected the Kyoto global climate accord early in his first term, but his administration has modestly increased federal fuel economy standards. 
 In New York, automakers also plan to argue that the regulations were not vetted as thoroughly as the state's laws require. And they will contend that the standards will actually harm the environment by leading to what Ms. Bergquist called ''the jalopy effect'' because higher initial car prices will discourage people from trading in older models that pollute more than newer ones. 
 ''Less efficient autos will stay on the road longer, and that will increase smog-forming pollutants,'' she said. 
 Daniel F. Becker, a top global warming strategist at the Sierra Club, said, ''If there were an Olympics of chutzpah, the auto industry would win a gold medal for suing New York claming that their clean car law is bad for the environment.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stricter automotive rules are intended to curb greenhouse gas emissions from traffic-choked places like the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. (Photo by Casey Kelbaugh for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); SMOG (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); LAWYERS (71%) Air Pollution; Automobiles; Weather; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Fuel Efficiency; Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; California; Northeastern States (US); West Coast (US)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



519 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Shares Up for 7 Straight Days and 5 Consecutive Weeks 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday for the seventh consecutive trading session as speculation that holiday sales would exceed earlier estimates lifted the shares of retailers, including Best Buy. 
 The market has now completed its fifth consecutive weekly advance, spurred by signs the Federal Reserve might soon stop raising interest rates, improving consumer sentiment and oil prices under $60 a barrel.
''As far as holiday sales are concerned, we're well primed for some outperformance,'' said Brian Slater, who helps oversee $500 million at Condor Capital Management in Martinsville, N.J. ''Energy costs have pretty much come down, and that's relieved investors. And now it looks like we have a little more clarity as to when the Fed may actually be done hiking rates.'' 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.64 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,268.25. The Nasdaq composite index gained 3.03 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,263.01. Both indexes are at their highest in more than four years. The Dow Jones industrial average added 15.53 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,931.62.
 The S.&P. 500 and the Dow average have risen 1.6 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively, from Nov. 18 to yesterday. They notched their fifth consecutive weekly gain, for the best streak since July for the S.&P. 500 and September 2004 for the Dow average. The Nasdaq is also up 1.6 percent, its sixth weekly advance and the longest streak since January 2004.
 Markets were closed Thursday for the Thanksgiving Day holiday and trading ended at 1 p.m. Eastern time yesterday. Some 542 million shares changed hands on the Big Board, about a third of the three-month daily average. Five stocks rose for every four that fell on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Shares of Best Buy, the largest United States electronics retailer, increased $1.63, to $50.63, on hopes of increased consumer spending on electronics during the holidays.
 Apple Computer jumped $2.23, to $69.34, on expectations of strong buying of iPod music players. Apple is cutting prices on products, including its new iMac G5 personal computer and iPod speakers. The lower prices were available yesterday only in Apple's retail and online stores.
 Crude oil prices have dropped 17 percent since touching a record $70.85 a barrel in New York on Aug. 30. Trading was halted Thursday and yesterday. 
 Minutes from the Fed's latest meeting showed that some policy makers were concerned about increasing rates too far and had discussed the need to ''before long'' change their outlook for the benchmark interest rate. The Fed voted on Nov. 1 to raise its target rate by a quarter percentage point to 4 percent, its 12th increase in a row.
 The day after Thanksgiving is the start of the holiday shopping season, a period that accounts for almost a quarter of retailers' annual sales. 
 Shoppers may be spending more this weekend than last year, the Washington-based National Retail Federation said in a statement yesterday. Consumers are buying electronics like flat-panel televisions, housewares and toys, the group said.
 On Tuesday, the group raised its sales forecast to 6 percent from an estimate of 5 percent two months ago, citing strong October gains and a decline in gasoline prices. Retail sales for November and December will total $439.5 billion, the group said.
 The S.&P. 500 retail group has climbed 6.4 percent this month, outpacing the 5.1 percent gain by the broader measure.
 A measure of chip makers jumped 0.8 percent for the best performance among two dozen industry groups in the S.&P. 500. Global semiconductor companies raised their factory use to a one-year high in the quarter ended Sept. 30, industry figures from Semiconductor International Capacity Statistics showed.
 Intel, the world's biggest computer chip maker, gained 17 cents, to $26.81. Applied Materials, the No. 1 maker of equipment for manufacturing semiconductors, added 35 cents, to $18.30.
 Taser International, the maker of stun guns, fell 90 cents, to $6.50. The Nasdaq stock market may stop trading its shares because Taser has failed to file a quarterly report with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Taser plans to request a hearing to appeal the decision, which would stop the delisting process until a ruling is made.
 XL Capital slumped $6.32, or 8.6 percent, to $67.42 for the worst performance in the S.&P. 500 yesterday. The company, a property and casualty insurer, expects a reduction of $830 million in fourth-quarter earnings because of a ruling on its purchase of Winterthur units. Treasury prices rose, with the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, falling to 4.43 percent from 4.49 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); THANKSGIVING (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (60%) 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



520 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Cheer? Not So Fast, G.M. Says

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
WHENEVER consumers seem poised to shake off the gathering gloom over the economy, a new cloud appears. Just as retailers began to hint that the holiday shopping season might be better than anticipated, General Motors expanded the number of jobs it planned to shed and identified specific factories for closing.

BIG ENOUGH? -- Buffeted by billion-dollar losses and a shrinking market share, General Motors said it would cut almost a tenth of its worldwide work force and shut all or part of a dozen factories over three years. Seven of the plants are in the United States or Canada.
Over all, the reorganization would reduce G.M.'s costs by $7 billion a year by the end of 2006, $1 billion more than its previous target. That translates to about a sixth of G.M.'s annual corporate spending of $42 billion a year. 
 G.M. plans to close assembly plants in Oklahoma City; Lansing, Mich.; Doraville, Ga.; and Oshawa, Ontario. It will also reduce operations in Spring Hill, Tenn.; Moraine, Ohio; Oshawa; and at seven parts and distribution sites in Pennsylvania, Michigan, Oregon and Ontario. Still, some analysts were skeptical that the changes were enough to stanch G.M.'s losses, which have averaged more than $1 billion a quarter this year.
 Ford, which recently said it would cut 4,000 salaried jobs, is expected to close several of its plants under its own reorganization plan, set to be announced early next year.

COOLING OFF -- Widely watched statistics on oil inventories showed increased slack in the system as the season's first snows arrived, helping to cool off prices. The Energy Information Administration said crude oil inventories rose about 50 percent more than analysts had expected in the week ended Nov. 18, even as refineries increased production.
 Inventories of heating oil and other so-called distillate fuels also rose about 50 percent more than expected, putting them back into the average range for this time of year, the energy agency said. Gasoline inventories, meanwhile, rose less than expected, though imports helped keep prices in check.
 Futures contracts for heating oil and gasoline traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange both fell this week, suggesting retail prices are unlikely to rise significantly in the short term. Natural gas prices were steady, though still more than twice the recent historical average.

HAPPY HOLIDAYS -- Just in time for the start of the holiday shopping season, a survey suggested that consumer confidence was rebounding after hurricanes battered the Gulf Coast and sent energy prices soaring. The University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment rose for the first time in two months, exceeding the gain forecast by economists.
 Even before the consumer sentiment numbers were released, some retailers began to soften their early, gloomy forecasts for the holidays. The National Retail Federation, a trade organization, said it expected Christmas season sales to grow 6 percent over the period last year, up from its estimate of 5 percent made in September. 
 Others, however, stuck to more modest outlooks. The International Council of Shopping Centers forecast a 3 percent to 3.5 percent rise; Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, estimated in November that sales would grow 3 percent to 5 percent. Target, the nation's No. 2 discount retailer, said it expected holiday sales to rise only 2 percent to 3 percent, half the pace of its earlier forecast.

NOT KID STUFF -- Hard-core gamers camped out overnight near electronics stores across the country for the privilege of paying top dollar to be among the first to own Microsoft's latest video game console, the Xbox 360. The console is more powerful than its predecessor, and more expensive. A high-end version is priced at $399; the basic version is $299.
 Microsoft was the first of the Big Three game-console makers to get its next-generation model into stores, and it did so in time for the holiday shopping season. Analysts said that should help Microsoft, which has lagged behind others in the field, close the sales gap with Nintendo and Sony. 
 Sony, the leading console maker, plans to release its own successor, PlayStation 3, in the spring, while Nintendo is expected to follow later in 2006.

SAME OLD SONG -- The Warner Music Group agreed to pay a large fine and stop bribing radio stations to play its songs, four months after Sony BMG made a similar agreeement with New York's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer.
 To settle accusations against it, Warner acknowledged it had given radio station program directors iPods, cameras and other electronics, as well as tickets to sports events and concerts if they would play music from its labels, including Atlantic, Bad Boy and Lava. As part of the agreement, Warner agreed to donate $5 million to support music programs in New York schools and pay $50,000 toward the state's legal expenses in the case.
 New York investigators said they would turn their attention to the conduct of nationwide radio broadcasting companies, including Clear Channel and Emmis. Federal regulators have expressed an interest in the scandal, but have not yet taken any action.

MOST VIEWED -- Following are the most viewed business articles from Nov. 19 to Nov. 25:
 1. For a G.M. Family, the American Dream Vanishes
 2. Where Is Wal-Mart's Fancy Stuff? Try Online
 3. G.M. Announces Decision to Cut 5,000 More Jobs
 4. Mix of Shock and Resignation on G.M. Shop Floors Set to Close
 5. For Fox's 'Idol,' Success Is Set on a Shaky Pedestal 
 Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: General Motors plans to close all or part of a dozen plants, including this one in Doraville, Ga., as it tries to restructure and cut its costs by $7 billion a year by the end of 2006, $1 billion more than its previous target. It will also trim a tenth of its worldwide work force. (Photo by Jessica McGowan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); HEATING OIL (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); LABOR FORCE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); WEATHER (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); MARKET SHARE (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); FUTURES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (62%) 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (59%) General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Energy Information Administration; National Retail Federation; International Council of Shopping Centers; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Target Corp; Microsoft Corp; Warner Music Group

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

PERSON: Mark A Stein; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%) Canada; New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



521 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: As Corporate Ad Money Flows Their Way, Bloggers Risk Their Rebel Reputation 

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
When Anita Campbell started her Web log about small-business trends two years ago, she thought it would simply be a service for her clients and help her consulting business grow. 
 Instead, she said, the blog ''just took off,'' attracting more readers than she had dreamed of. Then, companies offered to pay her to post advertisements and product mentions on her site. There were enough offers, she said, that she could choose to work with only the ones relevant to her readers. And so, her blog, once just a marketing tool, became a money generator on its own.
''I never try to hide the fact that I am writing about an advertiser,'' she said in an e-mail statement. ''But I also don't apologize for accepting advertising, and I make it clear that just like everyone else I have to earn a living and pay the expenses of keeping the site going.''
 After beginning as a vehicle for anti-establishment, noncommercial writers, many Web logs have laid out welcome mats for corporate America in the last couple of years. No one tracks how much advertising money is flowing to Web logs. Nor is it clear how many bloggers, like Ms. Campbell, disclose their sponsors. But when writers have not been completely open, their fellow bloggers have been quick to criticize. 
 Businesses have noticed the growing readership and influence of these Internet postings and are spending $50 million to $100 million this year on blog advertising and marketing, said Charlene Li, an analyst at Forrester Research, a company that looks at the impact of technology on business and consumers. Recognizing that blogs have become more mainstream, companies are paying for advertisements or mentions on blogs, courting blog writers with public relations efforts and inviting writers to come blog on one of their corporate sites. 
 The blogosphere, companies said, is an important place to have a presence, and blog writers are not shying away from the attention. 
 ''The attitude has completely changed from where it was two years ago and even a year ago,'' said Jim Kukral, the publisher of ReveNews, a site about making money from Web logs. ''People have started to realize that, hey, this is fun; we've proven it's fun; I enjoy doing it; now let's apply a few advertising techniques and make some money.''
 There is now an annual Blog Business Summit and several books on how to make money blogging. 
 Many blog writers have signed up for Google's AdSense program, which started in 2003 and pays Web publishers based on how many times advertisements on their sites receive clicks. Google places the ads on participating Web sites using contextual word matching, in an attempt to ensure that the advertisements relate to the content on the page.
 Bloggers are also making money through ''affiliate networks,'' which, in contrast to Google's automated system, allow blog writers to choose which advertisements to put on their pages. They also can be paid based on how often ads on their sites lead to sales rather than how often the ads receive clicks. Shareasale, Commission Junction and LinkShare are three such network companies. 
 ''You have all these self-publishers, people like the bloggers, who suddenly become business partners with Fortune 500 companies,'' said Heidi S. Messer, the president and chief operating officer of LinkShare, which connects Web writers with companies like Dell, Wal-Mart and Apple Computer.
 Sometimes blog writers make money by simply linking to companies' home pages. Companies come up higher in Google, Yahoo and other search engines when they are frequently linked to and mentioned on many sites, including blogs.
 USWeb, an online marketing firm, has run campaigns this year that pay people $5 to mention a company or link to its site. Most of the companies USWeb works with do not allow the company to identify them, said Ed Shull, the chief executive of USWeb, but some that he can mention include Lussori.com, a watch and jewelry company; Dot Flowers; and Terra Entertainment.
 Currently, USWeb is asking people with personal profile pages on myspaces.com, a social networking site, to include a trailer from Terra Entertainment's coming release of the film ''One Perfect Day'' on their pages. In exchange, these Web users will have their names listed on the end of the credits on the film's DVD, Mr. Shull said.
 USWeb has been criticized by some blog writers for not requiring its network of about 5,000 blog writers to disclose payments. It is currently completing guidelines on how bloggers should disclose that they were paid to mention products, Mr. Shull said.
 ''We are still leaving this as an option to bloggers,'' he said in an e-mail statement, ''but we do recommend that they disclose to readers that advertisers do support the site through paid mentions.'' 
 To be sure, most blog writers do not make any money, and those who do often make only enough to pay their site fees. There are now at least 21.5 million Web logs worldwide, according to Technorati, a company that tracks blog postings. Many blogs remain primarily personal postings that Internet users pursue purely because of their own interests.
 Still, large numbers of online writers are interested in making money.
 Large blog Web sites like Gawker Media and Weblogs have offered blog writers another opportunity to cash in. These sites display their postings alongside that of many other writers, increasing bloggers' abilities to attract readers and advertisers. 
 So far, the idea seems to be working. Jason McCabe Calacanis, chief executive of Weblogs, a site acquired by the America Online unit of Time Warner this fall, said the site would generate a few million dollars this year. Weblog's 140 bloggers are paid based on how often they write, he said. A Forrester Research survey found in February that 64 percent of national marketers are interested in advertising on blogs. 
 Audi, for example, paid for about 70 million ads about its A3 compact model on 286 Web logs in the spring. Many of the blog ads featured links to other blogs that mentioned Audi's campaign for the A3, not to Audi's site, said Brian Clark, chief executive of GMD Studios, an experimental media firm that worked with Audi's advertising agency to create the campaign.
 ''It was a substantial buy, and it was a really effective buy for the campaign in terms of the response,'' Mr. Clark said. ''You find that blogs are these series of citational records of what bloggers read. People with blogs read blogs. You get a feedback cycle.''
 Web logs also give advertisers the chance to aim at specific readers. If you want to advertise to New York Mets fans, for example, you can easily find blogs that cater to those readers, Mr. Clark said. 
 Last spring, Volvo spent several million dollars to sponsor Microsoft's MSN Spaces, a site that offers free Web logs and personal pages. The blog investment was worth it, said Anna Papadopoulos, the interactive media director at Euro RSCG 4D, a division of Havas that is running Volvo's Web log campaign. Since April, about five million pages have been set up by individuals, and a million people have visited Volvo's home page directly from the blog site, she said. 
 ''These are people that we wouldn't have gotten through other marketing efforts,'' Ms. Papadopoulos said.
 SBC Communications, which adopted the AT&T name on Monday, has found that advertisements on the blog site it started last fall, ProjectDU.com, have a higher click-through rate to its home page than its advertisements have had on other Web sites, said Michael Grasso, associate vice president for consumer marketing at AT&T. 
 Companies are also starting Web logs on their sites written by their employees. General Motors, for example, created two within the last year. Blogs may eventually replace many of the company's news releases, said Michael Wiley, director of new media for General Motors.
 General Motors has also started to treat some Web log writers as it does traditional journalists, and is deciding which bloggers to invite to media showings of its new cars. 
 ''It's very similar to media relations, but it's a little more grass roots,'' Mr. Wiley said. ''The level of respect for certain influential bloggers is certainly growing.''
 When Piaggio USA, the makers of Vespa scooters, decided to include a Web log on its site, the company recruited Vespa customers who were already blogging about scooters. The two Vespa blogs, which started posting last summer, do not pay the writers and ask the writers not to sell later the material they write for Vespa.
 One Vespa writer, Neil Barton, said he was willing to blog on Vespa's site free because of the visibility it would give his blogs, formerly published only on his own site, UrbanNerd.com. 
 ''I just thought, well you know, no one really knows about UrbanNerd, but a lot of people know about Vespa, so it will be a cool way to get what I'm writing out there,'' said Mr. Barton, who lives in New Jersey. ''The only limit I could see with Vespa is if I wanted to write about a competitor's scooter. I probably would post it on my blog as opposed to Vespa's.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Neil Barton of Bayonne, N.J., writes about Vespa products for the brand's blog. He isn't paid, but says he is able to publicize his own blogs, which are published on his site, UrbanNerd.com. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (97%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WRITERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); PUBLISHING (65%) Computers and the Internet; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Advertising and Marketing; Finances; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: Louise Story

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



522 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Advocate for Coca Legalization Leads in Bolivian Race

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: CHIPIRIRI, Bolivia 

 BODY:
In nearly 50 years of growing coca, Jose Torrico has seen army soldiers swarm across his fields to pull up his plants and heard threats from successive Bolivian governments determined to destroy his crop. 
 And like thousands of other coca farmers in this verdant, tropical region of central Bolivia, Mr. Torrico has refused to stop growing coca, the main ingredient in cocaine, even in the face of a relentless United States-financed effort to stamp it out.
Now, after years of persistence, he and his fellow farmers say they are eagerly anticipating the advent of a new era, one in which growing coca will finally be made legal. That is, they say, if Evo Morales is elected president on Dec. 18. 
 ''It will be legalized,'' Mr. Torrico, 69, said with a broad smile as he showed off an orange nylon tarp loaded with freshly picked coca leaves. ''This is good for us. Evo can do us favors.'' 
 Mr. Morales, a onetime leader of the coca growers federation, has steadily become revered by the left around Latin America as an unbending opponent of globalization. That is worrisome enough to the Bush administration. But more alarming to American officials is that a man who promotes coca farming -- an industry central to cocaine production -- may soon lead this Andean nation.
 Rising in part on his pledge to legalize coca, Mr. Morales has become the top presidential candidate in Bolivia, and he now leads his closest adversary, Jorge Quiroga, an American-educated former president, by 33 to 27 percent, according to a poll conducted earlier this month. 
 Mr. Morales's ascent now, at a time when President Bush holds the lowest standing of any United States leader ever in Latin America, has intensified a clash of cultures with Washington that shows some of its deepest strains here.
 For 20 years, Washington has sponsored efforts to eliminate coca as part of its fight against the illegal drug trade, and Bolivian governments have cooperated, eager for loans and other support from international lenders. 
 But today Washington-backed economic prescriptions are being rejected up and down the continent. And though the presidential race is tight, political analysts say that Mr. Morales may have the upper hand because of the potent anti-establishment fervor that has swept Bolivia, forcing out two presidents since 2003.
 The growing appeal of Mr. Morales, who like most Bolivians is of Indian descent, runs deepest here in the Chapare, a New Jersey-size swath of rivers and thick jungle where coca cultivation has for years made Bolivia one of the world's top cocaine producers. 
 For thousands of years before that, however, Indian highlanders cultivated and chewed unprocessed coca to mitigate hunger and increase stamina. Though the Bolivian government has made growing coca largely illegal, the bright green leaves are taken for granted as part of Andean culture. 
 They are still bought and sold legally across Bolivia for chewing or making tea, with people young and old never giving it a second thought. Indeed, coca tea is sold in supermarkets and it is consumed across the Andes, even in elegant hotels and offices. 
 While acknowledging that cocaine trafficking is a problem, Mr. Morales and the coca growers contend that most coca in the Chapare goes for traditional uses. Mr. Morales says that as president he would allow the ''industrial'' use of coca, to make everything from toothpaste to pharmaceuticals to soft drinks to be exported as far away as China and Europe.
 ''Coca and coca tea can be industrialized to circulate internationally,'' Mr. Morales said during an interview en route to a meeting with coca farmers. ''How can we not legalize, since we are not hurting anybody?''
 Erecting road blockades and battling soldiers, the coca growers have already won victories against the Bolivian government once thought impossible, most recently with a pact last fall that allowed each farmer to plant up to a third of an acre with coca in the Chapare.
 Today the blue, black and white flags of Mr. Morales's party, the Movement Toward Socialism, flutter from houses in the Chapare, and Mr. Morales is treated like a conquering hero during his frequent visits.
 ''Evo came up from the bottom, first as a union leader, then as the leader of the coca growers federation,'' Rene Arandia, a coca growers leader, said as he took a break from a recent meeting between Mr. Morales and several hundred cocaleros, as the growers are called, in the town of Lauca N. ''And now he's on his way to becoming president of the republic. For us, this is a victory.''
 For Washington, however, it is little short of a nightmare. American officials and leading drug policy experts contend that, no matter what Mr. Morales and the coca growers say, most of the coca grown in the Chapare winds up as cocaine. 
 They also say that the recent pact permitting limited coca production in the Chapare has emboldened not only coca farmers, but cocaine traffickers.
 ''The results are pretty clear,'' said Eduardo Gamarra, the Bolivian-born director of Latin American studies at Florida International University, who has closely tracked the drug trade. ''Coca production has expanded considerably in Bolivia, and cocaine production has expanded considerably in Bolivia.''
 The United Nations said in a recent report that Bolivia produced up to 107 tons of cocaine last year, up 35 percent from 2003. The sudden increase has prompted warnings that cocaine traffickers are gaining ground after several years in which Bolivia's drug crops were substantially reduced.
 ''I don't think there's an attractive or viable future by becoming a narco-state,'' John Walters, the White House drug czar, said in an interview.
 American officials, though, have watched helplessly as Mr. Morales's influence has grown. When they have offered opinions -- like claims, with little proof, that Mr. Morales is linked to drug trafficking -- it has only strengthened Mr. Morales's appeal. 
 ''They accuse me of everything,'' Mr. Morales told a crowd on a recent campaign swing. ''They say Evo is a drug trafficker, that Evo is a narco-terrorist. They don't know how to defend their position, so they attack us.''
 As president of the so-called Six Federations, a confederation of coca growers, he molded it into a powerful political force that propelled him to Congress. 
 Mr. Morales is well aware of the debt he owes his base. ''If not for the Chapare, if not for the Six Federations,'' he says, ''there would not be an Evo Morales.''
 Though 20,848 acres of coca was uprooted in eradication efforts in 2004, farmers keep planting it. They say they have no choice but to grow coca, since other crops fare poorly here and American-financed efforts to encourage them to switch to legal crops have stumbled.
 Mr. Torrico's 20 acres are filled with crops like bananas, fruit, yucca, coffee and cacao. On a tour of his plot, though, he listed off the hurdles he faces making ends meet, from high transportation costs to bottom-basement prices for most of his crops. 
 Coca, on the other hand, earns him as much as $162 dollars a month. It is not a windfall, even by Bolivian standards, but it is a living, he said.
 ''With coca, I was able to send my children to study,'' said Mr. Torrico, who has eight children. ''The other stuff, the citrus fruit, the bananas, give us nothing. Coca is what sustains us here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Evo Morales, right, and his running mate donned wreaths of coca leaves at a campaign rally earlier this month in the Chapare region of Bolivia. (Photo by Noah Friedman-Rudovsky for The New York Times)Map of Bolivia highlighting Chipiriri: Many farmers in Chipiriri say coca is their most important crop.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (93%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); ARMIES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); FOREIGN LENDING (61%) Elections; Politics and Government; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Coca (Plant); Cocaine and Crack Cocaine; United States International Relations; Election Issues

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Juan Forero; Evo Morales; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (92%) Bolivia

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



523 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Are Deeply Split Over How to Apportion New Tax Cuts 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25 

 BODY:
Republicans of all stripes want to cut taxes, but rarely have they been in so much disarray about whose to cut.
 If House Republicans and President Bush have their way, more than half of tax reductions over the next five years will go to the top 1 percent of households, those with average incomes of $1.1 million.
House leaders are pushing a $63-billion tax-cutting package that would extend President Bush's tax cut on stock dividends, protect oil companies from a windfall profits tax and shield people caught using illegal tax shelters.
 The Republican-controlled Senate, by contrast, has passed a bill that would cut taxes by $59 billion but ignore Mr. Bush's top priority, and that contains two other provisions that have provoked his wrath. 
 The Senate bill omits an extension of Mr. Bush's tax cuts for stock dividends and capital gains, which are to expire at the end of 2008.
 Instead, almost half of the bill is devoted to shielding middle-income and upper-income families from the alternative minimum tax.
 The Senate bill has also proposed two revenue-raising measures that Mr. Bush has threatened to veto: a one-year, $5-billion tax on major oil companies and a provision that would make it easier to impose steep penalties on people caught using illegal tax shelters.
 The impact of the two bills would be wildly different. According to calculations by the Tax Policy Center, a nonpartisan research group, about 51 percent of the tax cuts in the House bill would go to the top 1 percent of income earners.
 The Senate bill favors upper-income families, but not nearly as much: only about 12 percent of the benefits would go to the top 1 percent of earners.
 The enormous gulf reflects more than just Republican disarray. With budget deficits likely to widen again next year, even as Congress cuts money for programs like Medicaid and child support, Mr. Bush and his allies have to choose between warring constituencies. 
 Business groups are demanding that Congress extend tens of billions of dollars' worth of tax breaks and create new ones. Mr. Bush wants to lock in his legacy, even though his tax cuts do not expire for another three years. And millions of affluent families, especially those with two or more children, want to avoid the alternative minimum tax, which excludes tax breaks for dependents. 
 ''The great middle of America is underrepresented in Congress,'' said Representative Jim Leach, Republican of Iowa, who is critical of the House tax bill. ''The leadership will insist that a compromise be established. But what that final product is, I have no idea.''
 Even staunch supporters of Mr. Bush's agenda are torn. 
 ''We're not going to be left out in the cold,'' vowed Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, a New York Republican whose affluent district in the Rochester area is packed with families who could be battered by the alternative minimum tax. ''There is going to be a lot of negotiation.''
 The budget problems have amplified Republican difficulties. Staunch fiscal conservatives, seeking to attack the budget deficit, forced Republican moderates to vote for politically painful cuts in Medicaid, student loans and child-support enforcement. 
 But Republican moderates are now balking at tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefit the very rich. 
 Democratic lawmakers, hoping to exploit Republican uncertainty, have remained unusually unified and were almost jubilant when Mr. Bush threatened to veto the Senate tax bill because of the tax on oil companies.
 ''It just shows you how outside the mainstream they are,'' said Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan, a senior Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee. ''What they should be threatening is to veto a cut in child-support funds, cuts in student loans or cuts in funds for child health care.''
 Republican leaders betrayed their own anxiety, postponing a vote on the House tax bill just before Congress's Thanksgiving break.
 ''It could be harder to get through the House than the Senate,'' said Representative Devin Nunes, a California Republican on the tax-writing committee. ''What we decided to do is let people go back and think. We said, let's wait and make sure all the members are comfortable.''
 But there is no comfortable way for Republicans to deal with the budget math that confronts them.
 Permanently extending Mr. Bush's tax cuts would cost about $1.4 trillion over the next 10 years, the Congressional Budget Office says. 
 Republican leaders already scaled back their ambitions months ago, and are trying to pass only about $70 billion in tax cuts for the next five years.
 Simply extending Mr. Bush's tax cut on stock dividends for two years, as the House bill would do, would cost $22 billion. Preventing an automatic expansion next year of the alternative minimum tax, which would mean a surprise tax increase for about 15 million households, would cost about $27 billion.
 The alternative tax was created in 1969 as a way to prevent millionaires from using too many deductions. But it is now engulfing millions of additional homes every year, partly because it is not adjusted for inflation and even more because of the way it interacts with Mr. Bush's tax cuts.
 The alternative minimum tax's impact is heaviest on families with many children, because it excludes tax breaks for dependents, and for people who pay high property taxes and state income taxes.
 The Bush administration estimates that, if nothing is changed, the number of families that face the tax will jump to 18 million in 1006 from 3 million this year. 
 More than one-third of all families with incomes below $100,000 would face the tax next year, according to the Brookings-Urban Tax Policy Center. Among married couples with two or more children, 73 percent of those earning less than $100,000 would be hit.
 Senate Republican leaders, bowing to moderates in their party, decided to drop Mr. Bush's tax extension and focus on the more immediate impact of the alternative minimum tax. They also included $7 billion in tax cuts for Gulf Coast areas struck by Hurricane Katrina. 
 House leaders decided exactly the opposite. The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Bill Thomas of California, has told Republican lawmakers that he will take up the alternative minimum tax next year as part of a broader tax overhaul.
 But prospects for a sweeping tax overhaul next year are almost zero, most analysts say, because it would prompt too much opposition from entrenched interest groups in an election year.

 $ 0-10,000
Share of tax cut: 0.1%
Average change in federal taxes paid: $-3 -- -1.5%

10,000-,20000
Share of tax cut: 1
Average change in federal taxes paid: -24 -- -3.3

20,000-30,000
Share of tax cut: 2
Average change in federal taxes paid: -43 -- -1.7

30,000-40,000
Share of tax cut: 2
Average change in federal taxes paid: -50 -- -1.0

40,000-50,000
Share of tax cut: 2
Average change in federal taxes paid: -82 -- -1.1

50,000-75,000
Share of tax cut: 7
Average change in federal taxes paid: -135 -- -1.2

75,000-100,000
 Share of tax cut: 7
Average change in federal taxes paid: -256 -- -1.4

100,000-200,000
Share of tax cut: 16
Average change in federal taxes paid: -471 -- -1.5

200,000-500,000
 Share of tax cut: 14
Average change in federal taxes paid: -1,531 -- -2.0

500,000-1,000,000
Share of tax cut: 8
Average change in federal taxes paid: -5,346 -- -2.8

1,000,000 or more
Share of tax cut: 40
Average change in federal taxes paid: -50,984 -- -5.3

YEARLY INCOME -- SENATE BILL
-$ 0-10,000
Share of tax cut: 0.1%
Average change in federal taxes paid: -$3 -- -1.4%

10,000-,20000
Share of tax cut: 1
Average change in federal taxes paid: -22 -- -3.1

20,000-30,000
Share of tax cut: 2
Average change in federal taxes paid: -38 -- -1.5

30,000-40,000
Share of tax cut: 2
Average change in federal taxes paid: -44 -- -0.9

40,000-50,000
Share of tax cut: 2
Average change in federal taxes paid: -68 -- -0.9

50,000-75,000
Share of tax cut: 6
Average change in federal taxes paid: -126 -- -1.1

75,000-100,000
 Share of tax cut: 11
Average change in federal taxes paid: -400 -- -2.2

100,000-200,000
Share of tax cut: 41
Average change in federal taxes paid: -1,239 -- -3.9

200,000-500,000
 Share of tax cut: 26
Average change in federal taxes paid: -2,931 -- -3.8

500,000-1,000,000
Share of tax cut: 2
Average change in federal taxes paid: -1,648 -- -0.9

1,000,000 or more
Share of tax cut: 8
Average change in federal taxes paid: -10,651 -- -1.2

(Source by Brookings-Urban Institute Tax Policy Center)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Comparing the Two Tax Proposals''The House tax bill, which extends cuts from capital gains and stock dividends but does not provide relief from the alternative minimum tax, provides about half of its benefits to taxpayers making more than $500,000 a year. The Senate bill, which does the opposite, gives most of its benefits to taxpayers in the $100,000 to $500,000 range.YEARLY INCOME-- HOUSE BILL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); VETO (79%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); DIVIDENDS (75%); CHILDREN (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); MEDICAID (63%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (61%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Law and Legislation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); THOMAS M REYNOLDS (59%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2005



524 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Stay Out of the Kitchen, but Follow the Numbers

BYLINE: By ALEXANDRA PEERS

 BODY:
WHEN Stephen Loffredo opened Zoe, a restaurant in SoHo in 1992, his backer was his father-in-law. Earlier this year, when Mr. Loffredo was looking to open another Manhattan restaurant, Jovia, on the Upper East Side, he took a different route. In a structure that echoed the Broadway-angel model of backing musicals, he offered 34 units of the restaurant at $50,000 apiece. Christian Pompa, a real estate developer who was a prep-school classmate of Mr. Loffredo's wife, Thalia, bought three. 
 ''I like to eat, I like to drink and it's right near my house,'' Mr. Pompa said. Still, he added, his greatest hope is that in the current roaring restaurant market, Jovia will be so busy that ''there's no room for me.''
The restaurant business is booming -- both in New York City and, to a degree, nationwide. On average, more than five new restaurants a week open in the city, according to the Zagat Survey; that is the fastest pace since 2000. In October, national restaurant and bar sales reached an estimated $34.6 billion, up 7 percent from 2004, according to the Census Bureau. 
 Eager to get in the game, and inspired by the high-profile success of chefs who, after achieving stardom in one city, open additional restaurants in other places across the country, more people are seeing restaurants as attractive investments. 
 At the same time, the growth in the number of new restaurants, along with banks' traditional reluctance to finance them, has increased the number of restaurateurs looking for capital -- and for ways to let beginners buy in. But chefs, owners and investors warn that the restaurant business, already considered high-risk, may be more volatile than ever. 
 The cost of starting a restaurant varies widely, from perhaps $100,000 for a tiny bakery in a college town to upward of $8 million for a 200-seat dining room -- with a superstar chef, architect and interior designer -- in a large city. What are the odds of success? While an old saw holds that 9 of 10 restaurants fail, a study by Michigan State and Cornell Universities in 1991 and one by Ohio State in 2003 show that about 60 percent of all restaurants closed by their third year. 
 Moreover, the spate of new dining spots is setting off bidding wars for chefs, sommeliers and even contractors and public relations firms, owners say, and is creating higher expectations for diners who dart among restaurants, eager to try the next new thing. ''The customer who used to say, 'Satisfy me,' now says, 'Knock my socks off,' '' said Barry Wine, a restaurant consultant who was the chef and owner of the Quilted Giraffe in Manhattan.
 That is the lofty goal of one investor, David Robkin. He is a backer of the Philadelphia restaurateur Stephen Starr, who plans to open two multimillion-dollar restaurants in the Chelsea Market this winter: Buddakan and Morimoto, which will feature Nobu's former executive chef, Masaharu Morimoto.
 Mr. Robkin was an accountant in Philadelphia when he started investing in restaurants, inspired by the sight of a line of customers around the block at the Buddakan bar and restaurant that Mr. Starr opened in that city in 1996. After a series of successful openings -- and two flops -- he now manages an investor group backing Mr. Starr that, he says, earns ''venture capital returns,'' typically 20 percent or more a year. 
 Many restaurant investors come from the corporate or financial world -- and they often expect similar business methods. But there is a big disconnect between the corporate world and the kitchen, chefs warn. The turnover is much higher, for example, and staff members are often under the age of 30, said Stephan Fortier, who opened Loft, a restaurant and lounge on the Upper West Side, backed by an investor he met at a Crunch Gym. ''But if you know what you are doing, you can make some serious money,'' he said, especially in multiple restaurants, because of economies of scale. Trust in one's partners is crucial, he said. 
 In the last dozen years, Dr. Andrew Feldman, chief of sports medicine at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan, has invested $100,000 apiece in businesses like the Blue Water Grill and It's a Wrap in Manhattan and Best Cellars, a wine store chain. All but one of his choices, a bakery, have made money -- some, lots of money, he said.
 But he did not always earn his expected share of profits. Over the years, ''the lesson I've learned is to be more involved in the day-to-day operations,'' he said. 
 Chefs say investor money never comes without strings. ''You never know the nightmare investors until they've invested,'' said Geoffrey Zakarian, a chef who made his reputation with the 44 restaurant in the Royalton Hotel in Midtown in the early 1990's and has since opened Town in Midtown and, this week, Country on Madison Avenue at East 29th Street. 
 For one opening a few years ago, he said, there were daily e-mail messages at all hours from an investor, reading ''Why didn't you comp my friend?'' ''I don't like that waitress,'' or ''I want the best table at 8.'' 
 ''People like to say, 'I'm the owner; do you know who I am?' '' Mr. Zakarian said.
 The easiest way for investors to enter the restaurant game is to be a friend of a restaurateur and to become a regular customer. Sirio Maccioni, owner of Osterio del Circo and of Le Cirque, which is moving to a new Manhattan site, is among those who have culled backers from their customer bases. 
 Potential investors can also meet chefs and restaurateurs at various food events, like those listed on Web sites like StarChefs.com or held at the James Beard House, a haven for food lovers in Manhattan. Classes in operating a restaurant and raising financing are held at sites including the French Culinary Institute and through the Myriad Restaurant Group, parent of restaurants like TriBeCa Grill and Nobu. 
 But investors should not expect smooth sailing: the tension between a chef and a backer is often literally built into the deal. Investors have a shorter-term horizon than owners do. Backers of a hot restaurant, for example, may want most of their money out after about six months -- just as it's cooling. 
 ''Deals fail when they're structured at cross-purposes,'' said Ira Drukier, who owns, among other properties, the Chambers and the Maritime, two hotels in Manhattan, and has stakes in their restaurants. He builds his deals so that the chef gets a financial incentive when the investors are paid back -- and he stipulates a minimum 12 to 15 percent annual return, with payments made monthly. 
 For the individual investor, pitfalls can extend beyond the financial risk. ''Whether someone slips and falls, gets speared by a swordfish or the business just goes bankrupt,'' the investor can be liable, said Mark Albaum, a New York accountant who has had a couple of clients who were burned in the restaurant business. 
 In general, building a restaurant investment as an equity stake, or as a limited liability partnership, shields the investor. But there is no protection if the investor has signed, or has the power to sign, any business checks or tax returns. 
 MOST of all, owners and experienced backers say, investors should stay out of the kitchen -- no telling the chef how to season the soup -- and do the math. A restaurant's income projections should jibe with its expected average check size, average length of a meal and number of seats. There should be a cushion of six months' worth of expenses, and measures in place to raise extra capital if needed. 
 ''Right now, everybody wants to get into the restaurant business,'' Mr. Zakarian, the chef, said. ''But people who think it's fun and sexy lose their shirt very quickly,'' he warned. Then again, ''It is fun and sexy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Christian Pompa, right, a real estate developer, has invested in Jovia, a Manhattan restaurant owned by Stephen Loffredo, center. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); INTERIOR DECORATING (68%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (61%); CENSUS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



525 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1916 words

HEADLINE: Who's in the Corner Office?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT; Luke Kummer contributed research for this article.

 BODY:
ON some levels, corporate America can learn a lot about diversity from the nation's political elite.
 When, in 1967, Thurgood Marshall became the first African-American to be nominated to the Supreme Court, Franklin D. Raines was just finishing high school in Seattle. More than three decades would pass before Mr. Raines, at Fannie Mae, became the first black chief executive of a Fortune 500 company.
Today, the corner offices of the nation's largest companies are dominated by white men in a way that few other parts of society still are. Only a handful of women hold prominent chief executive jobs, while 81 women are in Congress. There are more female senators from Maine (two) than there are women running Fortune 100 companies (zero).
 Yet the full picture is not as simple as all this suggests. In ways less obvious than race and gender, the corporate elite has become less elite and more diverse over the last decade or two, while its counterpart in Washington has become more homogeneous. 
 They may be paid like kings, but C.E.O.'s seem to come from a wider variety of economic backgrounds -- with growing numbers rising from humble beginnings and fewer having attended Ivy League colleges -- than they once did. Many spent just a few years, or none, at their companies before becoming the boss. Being younger than 50 no longer rules out someone for the top job.
 ''There's much less emphasis on the cosmetic aspects and the cultural aspects and the refinement aspects, as opposed to the down-and-dirty, get-the-job-done aspect,'' said Gerard R. Roche, an executive recruiter for 41 years, whose firm, Heidrick & Struggles, has recently conducted chief-executive searches for Coca-Cola, Disney and Nike. 
 Wall Street, for example, was once seen as a club for the well heeled; today it seems much more open. James E. Cayne, the chief executive of Bear Stearns, didn't graduate from college. E. Stanley O'Neal of Merrill Lynch, one of just three black chief executives of large companies, went to Kettering University in Flint, Mich. Kenneth D. Lewis of Bank of America graduated from Georgia State.
 With the glaring exceptions of sex and skin color, in other words, the mold for a big-company C.E.O. has been broken, and there isn't a new one to take its place. The story is different in Washington, where political leaders are richer, older, more likely to have gone to an expensive college and more likely to have first held another elected office than they were in the past. So in some ways, corporate leaders now mirror the rest of society more closely than elected leaders do. 
 IT is almost as if two separate meritocracies have sprung up. The top of the corporate one remains largely closed to women and minorities. But it also rewards skills -- like communication, real-world smarts and a common touch, executives say -- that require little in the way of a privileged background. 
 ''I think of the people at Whirlpool who failed over the years, and it rarely had to do with their technical skills,'' said David R. Whitwam, the company's former chief, who worked his way through the University of Wisconsin emptying bedpans as a hospital orderly. ''It was usually their leadership capabilities.''
 The rules for advancement in the political system are different. They bear some resemblance to those of the college-application process that many 17-year-olds are now sweating. Women and minorities, both racial and religious, succeed far more often than they did in the past. The Senate now has almost twice as many Catholics -- 24 -- as it did in 1980, and more Jews and Mormons, too. (Data on the religious background of C.E.O.'s isn't readily accessible.) 
 But whether the goal is winning a seat in Congress or a spot in Harvard's freshman class, wealth appears to be more important than it once was. And the types of analytical skills that rarely make the difference at Whirlpool help determine both admissions decisions and Supreme Court nominations. 
 Not since Richard Nixon in 1969 appointed Warren Burger, who had attended the University of Minnesota, has the court had a new justice who attended a public university for college or graduate school. Since then, every new justice has held a degree from one of four universities: Harvard, Yale, Stanford or the University of Chicago. Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr., who is preparing for confirmation hearings, graduated from Yale Law School and Princeton. 
 In fact, the changing educational backgrounds of the corporate and political elite may best sum up the trends. In 1980, about 23 percent of chief executives at big companies had attended one of the eight Ivy League colleges, while only 13 percent of senators had. The boardroom, not surprisingly, was a more elite place than the halls of democracy. 
 Today, the two groups have switched places. The number of senators educated at an Ivy college has risen to 16. Among C.E.O.'s in the Standard & Poor's 500, the share has fallen by more than half, to 10 percent. The University of Wisconsin has tied Harvard as the most common alma mater for top executives, according to Spencer Stuart, an executive search firm. 
 This is particularly telling because students at Ivy colleges have changed relatively little -- in economic terms -- over the last few generations. The same is true at other elite colleges like Duke, Stanford and Williams. If anything, the percentage of them coming from middle-class and working-class households has fallen slightly in recent years, recent research shows. At Harvard, for instance, the median family income was about $150,000 last year, financial aid forms suggest. 
 So the colleges offer a rare way to examine the shifting class backgrounds of the nation's elites. The changes seem to say something about both the business world and the colleges themselves.
 At a time when the economy was not so brutally competitive, when there was less global trade and when technology had not ripped down the barriers between industries, companies could afford to draw from a relatively narrow talent pool, executives and recruiters say. That isn't the case today.
 ''Businesses are more complex. God knows they're much larger than they ever were before,'' said William W. McGuire, chief executive of UnitedHealth Group and a University of Texas graduate. An Ivy League degree ''opens doors,'' Mr. McGuire said. ''I'm just not sure that opening doors is tantamount to success in today's world.''
 The change is not limited to the United States. The number of top executives in Britain who graduated from its most exclusive colleges, Oxford and Cambridge, declined from 1992 to the early part of this decade, The Economist found.
 Thomas J. Neff, chairman of United States operations at Spencer Stuart, said he could not remember the last time a client doing an executive search had asked him to focus on graduates of particular colleges.
 ''I think if a C.E.O. or a board member went to an Ivy League school, there might be a bias. But it's small,'' Mr. Neff said. ''When it comes to senior level appointments, it's 'What have you done for me lately?' ''
 Executives who attended public universities also say that these campuses bear a closer resemblance to the rest of society than those dominated by the upper middle class. Many of the executives went on to business school at Harvard or Stanford, but they say that their undergraduate experience also helped prepare them for the business world.
 ''When you look at today's C.E.O., he or she has to be very comfortable talking about the business with folks on the factory floor or customers who are increasingly diverse,'' said Robert A. Eckert, the chief executive of Mattel and a University of Arizona graduate. ''While private schools have the advantage of smaller classes and the financial wherewithal to attract the world's greatest faculty, the public schools offer the diversity and variety that go along with the size they have there.''
 The high-income students at the Ivies and similar colleges, meanwhile, have been showing less interest in corporate America. First, the antiwar movement of the 1960's and 70's made a business career unappealing to many. About the same time, colleges were changing admissions policies to give more weight to academic skills, said Jerome Karabel, a fellow at the Longview Institute and author of ''The Chosen,'' a history of college admissions. 
 Capitalism is more popular on elite campuses now than it once was, but many students there still do not see corporate jobs as the best match for their skills. Instead, many turn to law, consulting or hedge-fund management. These fields tend to value skills at which the students have long excelled -- skills that can often be measured objectively. Minorities have done better in some of these professions than in corporate America. The pay in these fields also tends to be higher for younger employees, and a career rise can happen quickly. 
 ''The most able students interested in business are increasingly finding their way into entrepreneurial activity, into financial services, into high tech and into consulting,'' Lawrence H. Summers, Harvard's president, said. ''Joining large organizations is no longer the major choice for students interested in business.''
 Frederick W. Smith, C.E.O. of FedEx, attended Yale in the mid-60's and recalls being surrounded by sons of coal and steel executives. In recent years, he has spoken with Yale's president, Richard Levin, about encouraging students to join corporations. Students ''are more interested in Wall Street rather than in manufacturing, transportation and so forth,'' Mr. Smith said. ''They're much more interested in government. They are much more interested in the media.''
 Not only are they interested in government, but running for office often requires wealth that is common among Ivy League students and alumni. Many candidates spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on their campaigns, and sometimes much more. 
 Voters now seem to care less about a candidate's background -- economic, religious or otherwise -- and more about his positions, said Brandice Canes-Wrone, a politics professor at Princeton. The best example may be the willingness of evangelical Protestants to vote for conservative Catholics. But the rise of wealthy politicians from elite schools makes the point, too.
 There are almost as many millionaires in the Senate as nonmillionaires, according to Roll Call, a newspaper covering Capitol Hill. Since 1988, 9 of the 10 major-party nominees for president have held a degree from Harvard or Yale, the only exception being Bob Dole. In the previous 24 years, only 1 of the 12 nominees went to Harvard or Yale. That was Gerald R. Ford, who received a law degree from Yale. 
 ''By traditional measures, we have an elected and appointed elite that is more representative of the American public,'' said Larry J. Sabato, of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia. ''Yet in many ways they're less representative.''
 Of course, it is hard to argue that C.E.O.'s are representative of the public when almost all of them come from the roughly one-third of Americans who are male and white. 
 ''Clearly, it's an area where there's work to do,'' Mr. Eckert of Mattel said. ''We haven't yet achieved the diversity of our work force and our customer base.''
 For all the differences between the corporate and political elite, this may be the biggest similarity: both seem to be missing out on a lot of potential talent.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 4, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the backgrounds of business and political leaders made an imprecise generalization about ''every new justice'' of the Supreme Court since 1969. While it is true that every one of them attended Harvard, Yale, Stanford or the University of Chicago, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg did not graduate from one of the four. She went to Harvard Law School and then graduated from Columbia Law School.

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Cayne, chief of Bear Stearns, didn't graduate from college. (Photo by The New York Times)
E. Stanley O'Neal of Merrill Lynch attended a college in Flint, Mich. (Photo by Getty Images)
Kenneth D. Lewis of Bank of America graduated from Georgia State. (Photo by Bloomberg News)(pg. 4)
(pg. 1)Chart: ''The Changing Profile of Chief Executives''Chief executives of large companies are younger today than they were a generation ago . . .AGEMedian age1980: 592005: 56Percentage under 501980: 6%2005: 16%. . . and have spent less time with the companies they are leading.TENUREPercentage who have been with their company for less than five years1980: 5%1999: 14%2005: 18%Fewer C.E.O.'s attended an Ivy League college . . .COLLEGE EDUCATIONPercentage with bachelor's degrees from an Ivy League* college1980: 23%1990: 19%2005: 10%. . . and some public universities are among the most common alma maters of C.E.O.'s.COLLEGE EDUCATIONC.E.O.'s who are undergraduate alumni of:Harvard (private): 13University of Wisconsin (public): 13Stanford (private): 10Princeton (private): 9University of Texas (public): 9Yale (private): 8University of Missouri (public): 6University of Washington (public): 6Cornell (private): 5Duke (private): 5Northwestern (private): 5Ohio State (public): 5U.S. Naval Academy (public): 5But almost all C.E.O.'s of large companies continue to be men.GENDERFemale: 1.4%Male: 98.6%* The eight Ivy League colleges are Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Harvard, Univ. of Pennsylvania, Princeton and Yale.(Sources by Spencer Stuart [age, tenure and education]
BusinessWeek, Fortune and Spencer Stuart [Ivy League]
 Catalyst [gender])(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (72%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (53%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (59%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%); BAC (NYSE) (52%); BAC (LSE) (52%); 8648 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: FRANK RAINES (72%); STAN O'NEAL (56%); KENNETH D LEWIS (56%); JAMES E CAYNE (56%); JIMMY CAYNE (56%); STEVEN JOBS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); FLINT, MI, USA (85%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



526 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: No Boundaries, Please

BYLINE: By NANCE K. DICCIANI; As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
I GREW up on a dead-end street in Philadelphia. It was a great place for playing stickball in the summer and having snowball fights in the winter. With three brothers, I had to learn to catch a ball for self-defense.
 The principal of my all-girls Catholic high school told me never to let anyone set boundaries for me. It's been my mantra. High school was a great opportunity to test my wings and gain confidence. 
In college, I was the only female in my B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. engineering programs. It was not a popular curriculum for girls at that time. Toward the end of my junior year, we had to talk to our professors and decide on a senior research project. The head of the department said I needn't talk to the other professors, I was going to work with him. My project was to extract materials from crude oil. He pushed me to perform and set tough deadlines. He was the first person to hug me when I graduated, and the first to call when I got my first two jobs.
 But this was the same person who had approached me four years earlier when I was registering for the program. I was in the line for chemical engineering, and he told me I had the wrong line. When I politely stood my ground, he said no girl had ever graduated from his program before, and as long as he was there no girl ever would. I simply repeated I was there to register, and he walked away. 
 I think he was challenging me. He had a reputation for insisting on high performance and took pride in ensuring that not only were his students capable but that they really wanted to be in the field.
 Earlier in my career, I mentored high school and college women. No matter how smart they were, many of them seemed to lack confidence. In college I had noticed that if the highest test grade was ridiculously low, the male students in the class would say, ''Stupid professor, stupid test.'' The women would say, ''I should have studied harder,'' or ''Why didn't I know that?'' I repeated what my high school principal had told me and encouraged young women.
 My first job was working for the Philadelphia Water Department, where most people were not college grads. It taught me that anyone can have good ideas. You shouldn't assume that people don't understand or can't contribute because of their backgrounds. I learn a lot from talking to our hourly workers in our manufacturing area.
 When I started working at Air Products and Chemicals, I was given an assignment to confirm that the process being designed to carry waste away from the plant was the right one. I did some calculations and determined they'd need a tower 150 feet high. It wasn't economically feasible. I told my boss and was afraid I might get fired. The company listened, though, and I stayed on.
 When I arrived at Honeywell, my division -- formerly the Allied Chemical company -- was losing money. There was no obvious way out. One of the things I engineered was to buy the nylon fibers business of BASF, consolidate it with our nylon fibers business and then sell the resulting unit to Shaw, the carpet company. The deals took three years. It was extremely complicated, but if something makes sense, you keep at it.
 Eight years ago, I got my pilot's license. Flying offers the unique combination of having to pay acute attention to detail while at the same time enjoying an incredible sense of freedom.
 I've also coached a Special Olympics basketball team of 12- to 16-year-olds. One season, a boy who had only played a couple of times was scheduled to play in the final game. He said he had never won anything in his life. When he made the final basket and scored the winning points, he put his arms straight up and screamed. It was another lesson about not letting obstacles stand in your way.

NANCE K. DICCIANI
President and chief executive, Specialty Materials Honeywell International, Morristown, N.J.

BIRTH DATE
Oct. 18, 1947

FAVORITE CLOTHING MATERIAL
Wool

BOOK ON NIGHTSTAND
''Churchill: A Biography,'' by Roy Jenkins

PLANES SHE'S PILOTED
Piper Super Cub, Beechcraft Bonanza

GOLF HANDICAP
Fluctuates; now 19

FAVORITE GOLF COURSE
RiverCrest, in Oaks, Pa.


GRAPHIC: Photo: NANCE K. DICCIANI

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); CURRICULA (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); WOMEN (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AIR PRODUCTS & CHEMICALS INC (83%)

TICKER: APD (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



527 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: At Long Last: Growth Stocks, the Comeback Tour 

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
FOR growth investors, it has been one tough decade.
 It's bad enough that growth stocks -- shares of companies with earnings that are expanding faster than average -- have failed to recover fully from the bear market of 2000. What's worse, they have been handily beaten by value stocks in each of the last five years. In fact, $10,000 invested a half-decade ago in the Russell 3000 growth stock index would be worth $8,200 today. By contrast, the same money put into the Russell 3000 value stock index -- which tracks shares of slower-growing companies that trade at relatively cheap prices -- would have grown to nearly $14,300.
But after five years of being dominated by value, growth has begun to reassume market leadership. 
 To be sure, growth stocks, which dominated the bull market of the late 1990's, are still trailing value by a slim margin so far this year. But take away the first quarter, and growth stocks have been on a tear. 
 Large-capitalization blue-chip growth stocks, for instance, have advanced 10.9 percent, on average, since the end of March, easily surpassing the gain of 8.2 percent for large value shares. Growth is also beating value among small-capitalization stocks since the end of the first quarter, 13.0 percent versus 10.8 percent. 
 Does this make a trend? ''I don't think I'd bet the farm on it,'' said Ernest M. Ankrim, chief investment strategist at the Russell Investment Group in Tacoma, Wash. ''But I am willing to bet on it.''
 The good news for growth investors is that Mr. Ankrim is not alone. A recent survey of money managers by the Russell group found that they were most enthusiastic about large-cap growth stocks. Nearly two-thirds said they were bullish about these stocks, while just 32 percent were bullish about large-cap value stocks. When it came to midcap shares, 51 percent were bullish for growth, versus 29 percent for value. And in looking at the small-cap category, 38 percent were enthusiastic about growth shares, versus just 20 percent for value.
 There are other signs that the rally may have legs. For starters, two of the most popular industries among money managers are health care and technology, both of which are classic growth sectors. 
 By contrast, said Robert E. Turner, chairman and chief investment officer at Turner Investment Partners in Berwyn, Pa., a large percentage of the value stock universe is made up of financial sector holdings. And many of the names in it have underperformed over the last year as the Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates to stave off inflation.
 While many growth sectors could also be hurt by rising rates, ''who's going to sell growth now, after all these years?'' Mr. Turner said. After five years of severe underperformance for growth stocks, he said, most people who wanted to dump their shares have probably already done so.
 Investor attitudes, meanwhile, are changing in other ways. For the first time in a year and a half, more investors now want companies to use their excess cash to invest in capital spending rather than return the money to shareholders in the form of dividends or share buybacks, according to a recent survey of money managers by Merrill Lynch. 
 Companies are being pressured ''to stop running themselves for cash and to start running themselves for growth again,'' said David Bowers, chief global investment strategist at Merrill Lynch. If this trend continues, faster-growing companies would certainly receive more emphasis.
 A slowing economy caused by rising interest rates could also have that effect. After expanding by more than 20 percent in the first half of 2004, profit growth among companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 has been slowing. In fact, third-quarter earnings this year are expected to have risen by just under 16 percent and fourth-quarter earnings are forecast to grow at 14.5 percent, according to Thomson Financial.
 Why would growth stocks be expected to excel when economic growth is decelerating? Though it seems counterintuitive, ''when the economy slows and earnings slow, those companies that possess more robust earnings growth tend to trade at a premium,'' said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Advisors in Philadelphia. This is one reason for Mr. Kleintop's recommendation that investors tilt their portfolios slightly toward growth, with a 55 percent weighting for growth stocks versus 45 percent for value.
 For his part, Donald W. Hodges, co-manager of the Hodges Fund, says that ''you're beginning to see a little life showing up in the classic core-growth type of companies.'' These include Wal-Mart, Johnson & Johnson, Home Depot and Lowe's. Indeed, Mr. Hodges said he recently increased his positions in Home Depot, the nation's biggest home improvement chain, and Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer. 
 The Hodges Fund is a so-called go-anywhere fund that has the flexibility to search for all types of stocks, whether growth or value. Roughly 58 percent of the portfolio is now invested in a mix of what he calls ''core growth'' and ''speculative growth.'' The remaining 42 percent is held in value. 
 But Mr. Hodges and others caution that despite the resurgence of growth stocks, investors should not necessarily abandon value. 
 EVEN the most ardent supporters of growth say that this time, things are likely to be different. Many money managers say they now expect greater parity between growth and value.
 And don't make the mistake of confusing growth for technology stocks. While it is true that tech was the engine that drove the growth rally in the late 1990's, investors now say they are finding good growth opportunities in a variety of sectors, including health care, consumer discretionary goods and some industrials.
 ''There are a lot of good companies in almost every sector,'' said Zachary Karabell, senior economic analyst at Fred Alger Management, which is based in New York. ''It's not just tech.''
 Mr. Karabell said that there was another distinction between the current growth rally and the one in the late 1990's. This time, even the tech names that are leading the charge -- including the Internet search engine provider Google -- are actually making money. 
 ''These are companies generating bona fide, high-double-digit earnings and revenue growth,'' he added. ''These aren't ideals, hopes and dreams, but rather real profits.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Return to Growth''Growth stocks have outperformed value share recently, after trailing them for years.Graph tracks mutual fund returns (large growth and large value) through Nov. 23.(Source by Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (57%); TURNER INVESTMENT PARTNERS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (54%) WASHINGTON, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



528 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: A Good Week: Up, Up, Up, Turkey and Up Again

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market rose for the fifth consecutive week, buoyed by rising consumer confidence, moderating oil prices and optimism about the intentions of the Federal Reserve. 
 Stocks rose during every session of trading. Markets were closed on Thursday for Thanksgiving, and closed early on Friday, at 1 p.m. in New York.
But the trend for stocks was unmistakably bullish. Minutes released on Tuesday from the last meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers suggested that the central bank might stop raising short-term interest rates soon. On Wednesday, the University of Michigan's consumer confidence reading for November was stronger than that of the previous month. And the futures price of a barrel of oil in New York closed at $58.71, higher than last week's $56.14 but 17 percent below its August peak.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 165.29 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 10,931.62. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 19.98 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 1,268.25. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 35.94 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 2,263.01. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note declined to 4.43 percent from 4.49 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.IncyteNNM: INCYIncyte said Pfizer would market Incyte's anti-inflammatory drugs and cooperate with it on research. Pfizer will pay it $40 million up front plus additional payments of as much as $743 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $5.95WEEK'S CHANGE: +23.96%EST. '05 P/E: --ValsparNYSE: VALThe maker of paints and coatings reported a 26 percent jump in its fourth-quarter net income. It said that sales climbed 12 percent, to $725.4 million, from $645.1 million in the year-earlier period.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.99WEEK'S CHANGE: +11.02%EST. '05 P/E: 16.18BoeingNYSE: BAThe big aerospace company won orders worth $13.7 billion for 112 aircraft from Emirates Airlines and China. The deals extend Boeing's gains in new business this year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $69.06WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.15%EST. '05 P/E: 22.66SitelNYSE: SWWThe provider of customer support services to other businesses said that it had retained Citigroup to help it explore strategic alternatives, including a possible sale of the company.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $3.17WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.67%EST. '05 P/E: 24.39Campbell SoupNYSE: CPBThe maker of its namesake soup as well as Godiva chocolates and other products said quarterly earnings soared 31 percent, bolstered by higher prices and a tax settlement. It also reiterated its full-year profit forecast.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $31.06WEEK'S CHANGE: +4.58%EST. '05 P/E: 17.73Pain TherapeuticsNNM: PTIEThe biopharmaceutical company said a late-stage clinical trial of Oxytrex, a drug for patients with moderate to severe osteoarthritic pain, was unsuccessful.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $7.57WEEK'S CHANGE: -10.20%EST. '05 P/E: --Hormel FoodsNYSE: HRLShares of the packaged-meats maker fell after the company reported quarterly sales of $1.48 billion, below the $1.51 billion that Wall Street was expecting. The company also lowered its 2006 earnings guidance.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $32.62WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.96%EST. '05 P/E: 16.66Movie GalleryNNM: MOVIThe DVD and video rental chain announced a promotion, timed to coincide with the release of the Microsoft Xbox 360 video game console, to give away one Xbox 360 a day for 60 days.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $5.17WEEK'S CHANGE: +12.39%EST. '05 P/E: 6.31(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); COMPUTER GAMES (74%); THANKSGIVING (72%); INTEREST RATES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



529 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3225 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for Havana

BYLINE: By LUISITA LOPEZ TORREGROSA. 
LUISITA LOPEZ TORREGROSA, an editor at Sunday Styles, is the author of a memoir, ''The Noise of Infinite Longing'' (Harper-Collins).

 BODY:
ON the two-hour ride from Havana to Varadero, on an expressway where light traffic rolls along with only an occasional billboard to disturb the view, you see nothing but palm-covered hills, the lapping aqua sea crashing on craggy shores, deep valleys shrouded in mist, and Matanzas, a historic onetime sugar-rich town, along a sun-sparkling bay. Along the rest of the road, there is only a nearly uninhabited countryside, and breathtaking views of the ocean on the north and vales and mountains on the south. 
 It doesn't take much effort to imagine cliffside resorts here, with sweeping golf courses, sprawling ranches, and roadside restaurants sprinkled up and down the coast.
 Cuba is a large island, three-quarters the size of Florida, and aside from crowded hot spots like Havana and Varadero and a handful of colonial cities and resorts, it is largely underdeveloped -- making it a sleeping giant of Caribbean tourism. 
 ''The travel industry is sitting on the last virgin territory in the entire world,'' says Kirby Jones, the president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade Association. ''Americans want to go there for the same reason that dozens of companies around the world have. There's money to be made.'' 
 Ian Schrager, the New York entrepreneur who helped create the trend for stylish boutique hotels with the Royalton in Manhattan, the Delano in Miami Beach and the Mondrian in Los Angeles, went to Cuba in 1994-95. ''I was completely enchanted with the country,'' he says. ''I was completely taken with it. To me what was interesting was Old Havana, like Venice, a special place frozen in time.'' 
 There's no question he would like to put a hotel in Old Havana. ''My customers are waiting for Cuba to happen,'' he says. 
 In Miami, Frank Del Rio, the chief executive of Oceania Cruises, who left Cuba as a child, is clear on the subject. 
 ''It's got mountain ranges, colonial cities, beaches; it's got everything,'' he says. ''No travel organization in the United States will be caught flat-footed when the travel restrictions are lifted. We are all prepared.''
 Cuba, with its magnificent, unspoiled beauty, seduces in many ways. To American business executives, it is an untapped market of 12 million people eager for American goods. To American hoteliers and cruise ship executives, it represents a tantalizing glimpse of the future -- of future ports for their passengers, of future resorts for their customers.
 To American tourists, it represents the taste of a forbidden fruit -- of a land that has been off limits since 1961.
 And they are all waiting for the one thing they believe will all but certainly make their dreams come true: the end of Fidel Castro.
 WHILE Americans are waiting for Havana, Havana is preparing itself for Americans. To Cuban tourism officials, their island -- onetime cabaret of the Caribbean, beacon of romance and the good life -- is the magnet that will once again attract American vacationers and, with them, American dollars. In a recently published study given to me in Havana, several Cuban economists and tourism officials say that Americans are the most demanding and biggest spenders in the world, a conclusion that has become something of a mantra for Cuban officials. 
 ''We're doing everything we can to upgrade our hotels, to bring up standards to the level Americans expect,'' Antonio Martinez Rodriguez, the director general of the Nacional, Cuba's premier hotel, tells me one afternoon. 
 He's talking not only about his hotel, an updated 1930's Art Deco national monument that once played host to Winston Churchill, Frank Sinatra and Ava Gardner and the mobster Meyer Lansky. His gaze, steady behind thick glasses, his voice raspy, he ticks off numbers and percentages, unrolling existing plans for the further development of international tourism in his country -- 80 percent of the work force at major hotels is college educated, he says, and most are multilingual; contemporary amenities like business centers, e-mail access, satellite television and, of course, air-conditioning are now routine in top hotels.
 Cuba's tourist industry, he says, will revolve not only around sun and sand but will also include ecology-centered and health-oriented ventures. Leaning forward to make his point, Mr. Martinez says: ''We'll be ahead of just about everyone in the world in the health tourism area. And we have culture and history and all our music and our friendly people.''
 By now, I have heard variations on the theme, which boils down to an image of Cuba as a prime world destination, not just a Caribbean resort. Estefania R. Escobar Diaz, an official at the Ministry of Tourism, tells me fervently: ''We see Americans as friends. We want Americans to come see.'' 
 We are meeting in a plainly furnished reception room in the modest ministry quarters, across the Malecon, not far from a wall that bears anti-American slogans. Ms. Diaz, a bubbly middle-aged woman, is leaning back on a 50's-style sofa, a stack of brochures on her lap. An assistant brings a tray with two cups of black coffee, and Ms. Diaz continues, saying: ''This estrangement between you and us is forced. It is not natural.''
 That was a preamble to the sales pitch. In a dark skirt and pale blouse that seem to be standard office wear in Havana, Ms. Diaz hands me new tourism brochures and color-coded graphs tracing the growth of Cuban tourism in the last 10 to 15 years. Even without American tourists, who make up the majority of vacationers in the Caribbean, Cuba ranks No. 3 (after the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico) among destinations in the Caribbean, with more than two million visitors in 2004, a leap from 340,000 in 1990, according to the ministry.
 Now Canadians, Italians, the British, Spaniards and Germans and a trickle of Latin Americans fly to Cuba on direct and nonstop flights. This summer, Virgin Atlantic introduced twice weekly London-Havana flights. Ten airports have been built in Cuba in the past few years to accommodate the flow of travelers who may want to skip Havana and go directly to, say, Cayo Coco or Varadero.
 On the narrow strip of Varadero, a spit of land connected to the mainland by a causeway, as many as 50 hotels crowd fluffy sand dunes along a beach that stretches about 12 miles. There are older, grand hotels like Melia las Americas, with its new golf course, multiple cuisines and bars and all-inclusive rates; the sprawling couples-only Sandals Princesa del Mar, which sells itself as an idyllic honeymoon spot; and other resorts by Sol Melia, the Spanish hotel chain, which manages some of the major accommodations in Cuba in joint ventures with the government. 
 Some of the development is so new that palm trees haven't had time to grow tall enough to give shade from a brutally hot sun.
 BY midafternoon, the cobblestones of Old Havana sizzle, reflecting sun rays so powerful you can't look at the sky without squinting. It is the siesta hour. But people are spilling over the narrow sidewalks and strolling down the streets and into the bars, restaurants and hotels, museums and churches -- all the buildings that make Old Havana one of the most photographed cities in the Americas.
 Sightseers wind into the Ambos Mundos, one of a dozen or more small hotels that have been preserved or carved out of crumbling buildings, waiting to go up the elevator to visit Hemingway's room, a sun-drenched studio where some of his manuscripts and a typewriter he used when he stayed there are kept in glass cases. Pictures of Hemingway abound, and a sculpture of his face is mounted in the lobby. 
 Funny, in these long years when Americans have not been free to travel to Cuba, how much Hemingway figures in the island's tourism -- the Finca de Vigia outside Havana, his bars, his fishing boat, the Hemingway marina. One of the most frequent photos you see in public places shows Hemingway whispering in Fidel Castro's ear. Cubans know an effective image when they see it -- the American Nobel Prize winner with the revolutionary hero. 
 Blocks away, at the Raquel, the cool tiled lobby offers a refuge from crowds and heat, and at the Florida, where an imposing staircase leads to rooms of high ceilings and antique furnishings, guests lounge in the atrium under a stained-glass dome painted by a Cuban artist.
 Just about everywhere in Havana, Cuban art takes a prominent place. Paintings and sketches hang in corridors, in rooms, in hotel lobbies. But there's only graffiti in La Bodeguita. 
 A block west of the Plaza de la Catedral, one of five plazas around which much of Old Havana lives and works, on a dirty alley wide enough for one car, men idle on the sidewalk and in the entryways of dark foyers. The doorway of one tiny place is blocked by a crowd. 
 This is the Bodeguita del Medio, at Calle Empedrado 207, probably the best-known bar in Havana, jammed floor to ceiling with Hemingway memorabilia and the photos and signatures of just about every soul that has stepped into the place. Foreigners, mostly young men in baseball caps, half sauced at 2 o'clock in the afternoon, jam around the bar and scream out their orders -- mojitos! mojitos! mojitos! -- to the bartender, a middle-aged fellow who mass-produces the rum and mint cocktail and, like an assembly line, slides the glasses down the counter.
 AT the end of a long day in Old Havana, I meet the man most responsible for the restoration of the city, Eusebio Leal Spengler, the Historian of the City of Havana, a title that does not begin to convey his importance. He's agile, graying, wearing eyeglasses and short sleeves. There's nothing imperious about his manner. 
 Sitting in a stifling room in a restored building where he has his office, his rooms filled with paintings, plaques, photos and books, he quickly recounts the history of the restoration of Old Havana, which began with his master plan in the 80's. Starting with government funds and a vision, he can now count 16 hotels where there were nearly none, 65 restaurants and the restoration of 36 percent of the area.
 ''I won't see the full restoration of the city,'' he says a bit wistfully, ''so much is left to be done, but this is a start.'' 
 Talking rapidly, like one who has said this many times before, he paints an overview of the restoration movement and his role in it. ''Old Havana is like a small city-state,'' he says, but he is not a solo act. He reports to Fidel Castro; he is a member of the government. 
 ''I am the State,'' he says, and there's a touch of gloating in this, even if it comes with a smile. ''What we're doing here is trying to preserve the patrimony, the memory of the Cuban nation.'' 
 That patrimony presumably includes the decrepit mansion in a slummy area of the city where three young boys, barely visible in the dark stairs, approach me, tugging at my shirt, saying ''money, money,'' their open palms stuck out. I walk by them up to the second floor and open the door to one of Havana's favorite restaurants, La Guarida, a small place that gained a spot of fame when it was featured in the 1994 Miramax film ''Strawberry and Chocolate.'' 
 Posters from the movie are pasted on the walls along with a mishmash of images of santos and Jesus, something out of the hippie 60's. With its funky atmosphere, La Guarida is a hit with foreigners, from diplomats and journalists to drifters. Everybody goes to La Guarida, I am told -- best food in town.
 No, it isn't. Five days in Cuba and I've not had a good meal except at the Cafe del Oriente in Old Havana. But foreigners get the best food money can buy. Foreigners get the best of everything. Most Cubans shop for food at neighborhood markets where dogs sniff around, vegetables are rotting and flies buzz over raw meat laid on bloody counters.
 With incomes ranging from $8 to $20 a month, the working-class Cuban cannot afford the Palco supermarket in the Cubanacan area, with its shelves of Kellogg's cereals and six-packs of Coca-Cola (both made in Mexico) and the slabs of fresh beef in the butcher area. That, and the preserved mansions in Miramar and Siboney (where Fidel Castro has a compound), are within reach only of retired generals like the one I met one morning there, and other members of the Havana elite -- diplomats, foreign entrepreneurs, government functionaries and their families.
 AMERICANS want to believe that only Fidel Castro stands in the way of their vacation plans. ''Ten minutes after his death,'' says Mr. Del Rio, of Oceania Cruises, ''there will be normalization of ties. I believe the regime will end the moment of Fidel's death.''
 He and other tourism executives already see their ships packed with Americans sailing for Cuban ports; ferries zipping back and forth on daytrips to Havana and Varadero; as many as 50 flights a day taking off from Florida for the island; and the flags of Marriott, Hilton, Hyatt and other signature hotels flying there.
 But today's Cuba is not the pre-Castro Cuba many Americans remember -- or fantasize about. 
 ''Americans are wrong if they think that once Castro is gone, everything will be as it was before,'' says Lissa Ree Weinmann, the director of the Cuba Project at the World Policy Institute at the New School in New York. ''Cubans have changed'' -- many Cubans today only know life under Castro -- ''and many of them will not accept any kind of American domination.''
 There does not seem to be a chance of any immediate loosening of the restrictions, says Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, who is a leader in the battle to lift the embargo. But he says that if a vote in Congress were taken secretly, the ban on travel and trade would most likely fall. Cuban experts cite a range of American organizations, from the American Society of Travel Agents to food exporters across the South, which support free travel and trade.
 Lifting the embargo will take as much as a decade, estimates Antonio R. Zamora, a Miami lawyer with the New York firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed who has published at least three studies on United States-Cuba relations. ''The embargo is trade, buying and selling, and it is banking, credit cards, investment,'' he says. 
 There are also knotty property issues, he says, referring to the American-owned companies and industries expropriated by Cuba when Fidel Castro took over. Those issues will take years to resolve, but he is convinced that the travel ban will come down first.
 When that happens, Mr. Zamora, a Cuban exile who fought at the Bay of Pigs, foresees a huge surge in travel to the island. ''Cuba is like having a place as beautiful as Hawaii,'' he says, ''only 90 miles from the United States.'' 
 ''It has a very strong singular culture,'' Mr. Schrager says, ''unlike other islands, like Jamaica and the Dominican Republic, that seem like atolls next to it. Cuba is a real country with a distinct personality. It's exotic and timeless. Whether it's music or some other reason, it captures our fancy. 
 ''And politics aside, Castro, he's the last great world leader on the world stage. He is the last one left, and to me that adds to the legend.''

Getting There
 With a few exceptions, the United States government does not allow Americans to travel to Cuba, just 90 miles from Key West. Among those permitted to travel under a General License (no application necessary) are accredited journalists, full-time professionals traveling for research, and government officials. 
 A permit known as a Specific License, issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury, must be obtained by anyone else, including those traveling for educational activities, to visit immediate relatives, on behalf of private foundations, for research or educational institutes or for religious activities. Though some Americans travel to Cuba from a third country like Mexico or Canada, they risk substantial fines. 
 For more information and travel arrangements, you can contact Marazul Charters, 4100 Park Avenue, Weehawken, N.J. 07086, (201) 319-1054, www.marazul.com, a government-approved agency. Marazul has two flights a week from Miami to Havana (on leased American Eagle or Falcon Air planes); it will also book flights from Montego Bay, Jamaica; Toronto and Montreal; Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic; Mexico City and Cancun; and Nassau, the Bahamas. The company also makes hotel reservations and books air travel in Cuba. 
 All licensed travelers must have a visa from the Cuban government. Visas can be obtained through the Cuban Interests Section, 2630 16th Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20009; (202) 797-8518. The visa fee is $50; consular services, $20. Foreign currency must be changed to Cuban convertible pesos; for the best exchange rate, take euros or Canadian dollars.

Where to Stay
 Hotel Nacional, Calle O at 21, Vedado, (53-7) 873-3564, www.hotelnacionaldecuba.com, the best hotel in Havana, designed by McKim, Mead & White, was built in 1930. The hotel has 457 rooms, a cabaret, several bars and restaurants. Room rates range from $120 to $660. 
 Hotel Ambos Mundos, Calle Obispo 153, Old Havana, (53-7) 860-9529, is a 54-room restored hotel where Hemingway lived in the 30's. Rooms start at $80.
 Hotel Florida, Calle Obispo 252, Old Havana, (53-7) 862-4127, is a 25-room hotel with a high atrium, a stained-glass skylight, and a restaurant and bar. The ample high-ceilinged rooms have colonial appointments, marble floors, wrought-iron beds, satellite TV and minibars. Rates from $90. 
 Hotel Raquel, Calle Amargura at San Ignacio, Old Havana, (53-7) 860-8280, has 25 rooms decorated with art by Cuban painters and an elegant Art Nouveau lobby; the hotel's biblical name evokes Cuban-Jewish culture. Rooms from $80.
 Melia las Americas, Varadero, (53-45) 66-7600), all-inclusive; from $220. 
 Sandals Princesa del Mar and Sandals Royal Hicacos, Varadero, www.sandalscuba.ca, for couples only, all-inclusive; rooms from $170.

Where to Eat
 Cafe del Oriente, Oficios 112, Old Havana, (53-7) 860-6686, an elegant but casual restaurant (with live music), has some of the best food in Havana, with a good selection of wines. A meal with a glass of wine comes to about $20. 
 El Aljibe, Septima Avenida, Miramar, (53-7) 204-1583, is a favorite restaurant with foreigners and the Havana elite. A large, open terrace with a bamboo roof, it's a place for large groups and after-hours drinking and eating. Its specialty is pollo asado el aljibe (roast chicken), which comes in a steaming pot. The meal is a bargain at $15 and should be washed down with Cristal beer ($2 a bottle).
 La Guarida, Calle Concordia 418, Central Havana, (53-7) 862-4940, is Cuba's most famous paladar (as Cuba's home restaurants are called). The food, which runs to chicken and pork and some seafood, is mildly interesting though not excellent. Main dishes run around $12.

What to See and Do
 There's really only one main attraction: Old Havana, with museums, cathedrals, plazas, hotels, restaurants and bars. But the rest of Havana -- mainly Vedado, Miramar and Siboney -- are worth a car tour to get a better view of how the elite lives. 
 Outside Havana: Scenic Pinar del Rio Province (southwest of Havana) is a three-hour drive on bus tours that leave daily from major Havana hotels. Havanatur, a government tourism agency with offices in major hotels, can arrange your tours; (53-82) 75-0100. LUISITA LOPEZ TORREGROSA


GRAPHIC: Photos: A swimmer takes a break on the rocks along the Malecon, Havana's historic seawall. To the right is the Castillo de los Tres Reyes del Morro (El Morro fortress), now a maritime museum. (Photo by TYLER HICKS/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
A view from the pool at Horizontes Los Jazmines in western Cuba.
 Breakfast at the Horizontes Los Jazmines in Pinar del Rio. Lobby of the Nacional, Cuba's premier hotel. Havana's streets are playgrounds for children, top, and adults. A flower seller in central Havana. A band warms up for tourists at Varadero beach. An American car in Havana dating to before the embargo. The Malecon is a place to relax in the evening. (Photographs by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 8, 9)Map of Cuba highlighting Havana. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CRUISES (88%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); BEACHES (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



530 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: A Budding Chef Gets a Taste of Mexico 

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

 BODY:
IF there is a gene for cuisine, Gabe, my 11-year-old son, could splice it to perfection. Somewhere between Greenwich Village, where he was born, and the San Francisco Bay area, where he has grown up, the little kid with the stubborn disposition and freckles on his nose has forsaken Boy Scouts and baseball in favor of wielding a kitchen knife.
 I suppose he is a member of the Emeril generation. Gabe has spent his formative years shopping at the Berkeley Bowl, where over half a dozen varieties of Thanksgiving yams, in lesser mortals, can instill emotional paralysis. When Gabe and his pals veg out after school, they watch shows like ''Unwrapped'' on the Food Network, riveted by the deconstruction of a Marshmallow Peep. He is blessed with a critical eye. ''I think Emeril is really cheesy,'' he observed the other night while watching a puff pastry segment. ''He makes the stupidest jokes. But he cooks really well.''
 He is the only one of us to have inherited his grandfather's ability to make things. But Gabe is also the one capable of being mesmerized for hours at the computer by ''Battlefield: 1942,'' and, like an animal safe in its winter den, it can sometimes be difficult to rouse him from his comfort zone. 
 With its manifold indigenous cultures, Oaxaca seemed the perfect place to push boundaries. Like the mole sauces for which it is justly famous, the region itself is a subtle blend of ingredients -- from dusty Zapotec villages where Spanish is a second language to the zocalo in colonial Oaxaca, a sophisticated town square brimming with street life and vendors selling twisty, one-story-tall balloons.
 Appealing to Gabe's inner Iron Chef seemed like a surreptitious way to introduce him to a place where the artful approach to life presides. There was also a selfish motive: Gabe is my soul mate, a fellow food wanderer who is not above embracing insanity to follow his appetite wherever it leads.
 Months ahead of time, we enrolled via the Internet in the daylong Wednesday cooking class at Seasons of My Heart, the chef and cookbook author Susana Trilling's cooking school in the Etla Valley, about a 45-minute drive north of town. In her cookbook and PBS series of the same name, Ms. Trilling, an American whose maternal grandparents were Mexican, calls Oaxaca ''the land of no waste'' where cooking techniques in some ancient villages have endured for a thousand years. 
 I suspected that the very notion of what constitutes food in Oaxaca would test Gabe's mettle. At the suggestion of Jacob, his older brother, we spent our second night in Mexico at a Oaxaca Guerrero baseball game, where instead of peanuts and Cracker Jack, vendors hawked huge trays piled high with chapulines, fried grasshoppers cooked in chili and lime, a local delicacy. Gabe was bug-eyed as he watched the man next to him snack on exoskeletal munchies in a paper bowl. ''It's probably less gross than a hot dog,'' he admitted. ''But on the rim of the bowl I saw a bunch of legs and severed body parts. That's revolting!''
 Our cooking day began at the Wednesday market in Etla, shopping for ingredients and sampling as we went. Our group met Ms. Trilling and her assistant Yolanda Giron in front of Telefonico Economico, beside the stone steps chockablock with wizened Zapotec women in embroidered aprons displaying green earthenware on straw mats. En route in the van, Gabe had bonded with Cindy and Fred Beams, fellow classmates from Boston, sharing opinions about Caesar salad and bemoaning his brother's preference for plain pizza instead of Hawaiian. Cindy told Gabe about a delicious sauce she'd just had on her omelet at her B & B. ''It was the best sauce -- to die for,'' she said. ''Then I found out the provenance. Roasted worms.''
 The Oaxacan taste for insects, we'd learn -- including the worm salt spied at the supermarket and the ''basket of fried locusts'' at a nearby restaurant -- was a source of protein dating back to pre-Hispanic times. At the market, we saw tiny wild teardrop-shaped avocados with edible purple skins, and cones of brown sugar called piloncillo, artfully arranged on wooden planks.
 Gabe bought ''bunny bread,'' a local specialty in the shape of a rabbit. ''The people here decorate a lot of things,'' he observed. ''Maybe they have more patience than us.''
 His eyes alighted on a row of freshly butchered pigs' heads hanging on hooks. ''We use every part of the animal, even the heart,'' Yolanda explained. 
 ''Why do the pigs have bags on their noses?'' Gabe inquired. The answer -- to prevent blood from dripping from their noses when the pig is killed -- elicited a response similar to when Pierce Brosnan uses automatic machine guns on his Aston Martin Vanquish V12 to demolish the evil Zao in ''Die Another Day.'' ''Cooooooool!'' he exclaimed.
 But somewhere between the lady selling face cream made from conch shells and the man selling pairs of live turkeys and chickens bound in bean sacks, my son got very pale. He got even paler and more glassy-eyed as the van forded a stream to climb the red dirt road to Rancho Aurora, Ms. Trilling's idyllic domed temple to food perched on a ridge overlooking corn, squash and bean fields. 
 About 15 of us -- from Japan, Los Angeles, Albuquerque, Boston and Paris -- divided into groups, with each group choosing one of six courses to cook, all of them centered on estofado de pollo, a light, molelike Spanish stew. Some drank beer; Gabe drank Pepto-Bismol. Wobblingly, he volunteered to make dessert, budin de elote -- a traditional corn pudding drizzled with mezcal sauce. The recipe includes condensed milk, which doesn't require refrigeration. Ms. Trilling explained to my surprised son that in many parts of Mexico, ''refrigerators are a new thing.'' 
 Gabe commandeered a huge and impossibly sharp kitchen knife, slicing the kernels off fresh ears of corn with great authority. ''Watch out, Mom!'' he barked. I didn't know the difference between a saucepan and a sautee pan; Gabe did. ''Look at that knife work!'' he said, admiring the diced peppers on another group's cutting board.
 Though his face was bordering on amphibious green, he expertly cracked dozens of eggs, then stood transfixed as Ms. Trilling's industrial-strength mixer, set on 10, the highest speed, whipped the whites into foamy peaks, barely able to contain himself as he clicked his fingers like castanets in ecstasy. His competence amazed me. 
 By the time we were finally ready to eat, Gabe was lying limp and miserable on a wicker settee. The rest of us attacked the dishes with gusto, starting with the triangular corn turnovers stuffed with red beans, then moving on to the quesillo cheese soup with purslane, critiquing each course along the way. 
 Finally the corn pudding arrived, magnificently decorated -- thanks to the kitchen staff -- with bougainvillea blossoms floating picturesquely in the mezcal sauce.
 ''Who made the dessert?'' Ms. Trilling asked the class. Gabe's feeble hand floated up. Animated by culinary will, he staggered to the table, mustering the courage to dip a fork prong into the sauce. ''Hmm,'' he said. He paused. ''Just an edge,'' he said again, this time tasting a tiny corner. He paused again. ''Just one tiny bit more,'' he said. ''It's so good.''
 I saw a flicker of regret in his face, as though he sensed the world's infinite variety and possibilities in all the dishes he'd missed. ''Mom,'' he said plaintively, surveying the sensual offerings of the table. ''Can we make everything when we get home?''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jillian Tamaki)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (84%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); BASEBALL (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); THANKSGIVING (70%); WRITERS (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); GRANDPARENTS (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); MAMMALS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



531 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Can a City Grow Quickly And Stay Simple?

BYLINE: By LINDA BAKER

DATELINE: Bend, Ore. 

 BODY:
WHEN Tommy Ocel, a 40-year-old software engineer, lived in Sacramento, he spent an hour driving to and from work and another 45 minutes transporting his 9-year-old son to a private school 10 miles from home. But since Mr. Ocel and his family moved here last July, the car has spent more time in the garage than on the road. Mr. Ocel and his wife, Arielle, telecommute to their jobs in Sacramento, and their son, Duncan, rides his bike to a public school less than a mile away. 
 ''Being able to walk and bike downtown and to school is a huge benefit,'' said Mr. Ocel, who lives with his family on the city's west side, just minutes from Drake Park, Bend's downtown greenway bordering the Deschutes River. The clean air is good for his son's asthma, Mr. Ocel said, and he has already bought a season's pass to Mount Bachelor, the state's largest ski area, 20 miles away.
 ''We moved here because we wanted a simpler life,'' Mrs. Ocel said. ''We couldn't be happier.'' 
 The Ocels aren't alone in their enthusiasm for Bend, a city of 65,000 three hours east of Portland by the Cascade Mountains. The high desert city is the sixth-fastest-growing metropolitan area in the United States, according to census figures released in September. The top five are Greeley, Colo.; St. George, Utah; Las Vegas; Naples/Marco Island, Fla.; and Stockton, Calif.
 But if new residents are seeking refuge from city traffic, the traffic is also making its way to Bend. Not only is the 5 o'clock rush hour becoming part of the local vocabulary, but Bend is the only community of its size in the West without a mass transit system. 
 In St. George, which grew from 30,000 to 50,000 in the 1990's, the two-year-old SunTran transit system makes more than 60 stops on three routes. In Bend, voters rejected a ballot measure last year that would have created a transit service district. One obstacle to a public transportation system is the area's rural car culture. Another is the influx of retirees and telecommuters, who may bike and walk but are less likely to ride a bus.
 Mrs. Ocel said, ''One parent told me, 'Is Bend such a wealthy city we don't need mass transportation?' '' Like many newcomers, the Ocels moved to Bend with substantial equity after selling their home in California. ''Let's just say we're not pinched on our mortgage,'' Mrs. Ocel said. The couple's three-bedroom home in Bend cost $410,000. 
 Many local planners see a transit system as an important part of the city's growth strategy. ''We are at a key point in Bend's development, where we have to make choices about how we want to grow,'' said Karen Swirsky, a planner with David Evans & Associates who voted in support of last year's transit measure. 
 But crafting a transportation plan is a difficult undertaking, Ms. Swirsky said. ''There has to be the political demand to make it work,'' she said. 
 Bend's population tripled in the 1990's and is expected to double in the next 10 years. As of August 2005, the city had issued 1,467 building permits for single-family homes, more than twice the number of permits issued in major urban centers like Seattle and San Diego.
 ''We estimate there's a new family moving in every hour and a half,'' said Robert Mathias, Bend's building department supervisor. ''It's pretty staggering.'' 
 The city's new residents fit a specific demographic profile, said Roger Lee, executive director of Economic Development for Central Oregon, a nonprofit organization. ''They are highly educated and predominantly white,'' he said. ''They come for the quality of life.'' 
 Bend is in Deschutes County, which is 97 percent Caucasian. In addition to 300 days of sunshine a year, the city offers proximity to the Newberry National Volcanic Monument, four destination resorts and an array of downtown cafes and galleries. 
 Candy O'Rear, who is 55 and lives in Olympia, Wash., bought a 1,672-square-foot $665,000 town house in Bend's Mill Quarter development, a renovation of a historic lumber mill four blocks from the central core. ''I'm in search of sun,'' said Ms. O'Rear, who expects to spend her time skiing, river rafting and attending performances in the new Les Schwab Amphitheater. 
 Ms. O'Rear said she was looking forward to walking to local shops but would probably not ride a bus even if one existed. She will take the Mount Bachelor ski shuttle, which departs from a nearby park-and-ride lot. 
 The absence of a public transportation system creates hardship for people who work in Bend but must live in outlying communities because of rising housing costs, said Jeff Monson, executive director of Commute Options, a local nonprofit organization that encourages people to ride their bicycles, walk or organize car pools. 
 ''You buy a house in La Pine, get a job in Bend and you can't afford to put gas in your car,'' said Mr. Monson, who commutes by bicycle, even in the winter. 
 La Pine is a community of 6,000 located 30 miles south of Bend. The town's median home price is $140,000, according to the Central Oregon Association of Realtors. In Bend, the median home price is $258,000, up more than $40,000 from last year, the association said. 
 Justin Sayers, a production distribution specialist, car-pools 50 miles round trip to his job at Clear Choice Health Plans in Bend. 
 ''It's kind of a hassle,'' said Mr. Sayers, who spends 13 hours a day in town to fit the schedule of fellow car-pooling commuters. ''A lot of time I'm not at my home.'' 
 City officials expressed cautious optimism for the future of mass transit. Bend recently expanded a shuttle for the elderly and for people with disabilities to include the general public. The Dial-a-Ride service requires 24-hour notice and operates within city limits. 
 Last year, the city formed the Bend Metropolitan Planning Organization, a federally required agency for cities with populations of more than 50,000 that will have responsibility for transportation planning. A new four-year university and research center will anchor a 1,500-acre mixed-use development, Juniper Ridge, on the southern edge of town. 
 ''It's hard to imagine 5,000 college students without the transit piece,'' said Brian Shetterly, Bend's interim planning manager. ''It's not a question of if, but when.''
 Other residents are not so sure. Jon Weishaupt, a land surveyor for Bend's proliferating subdivisions, asked, ''How many people are going to park their Land Rovers and take the bus to get an espresso?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: FAMILIES MOVING IN -- The Ocel family, above, moved to Bend looking for a simpler lifestyle. They live just 10 minutes away from Drake Park, left, the city's downtown greenway bordering the Deschutes River. But as more families like the Ocels relocate to the area, the city, which has no mass transit service, can also expect to see a growth in traffic. (Photographs by Dean Guernsey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); URBANIZATION (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); SIMPLE LIVING (74%); TELECOMMUTING (72%); CITIES (70%); SKIING FACILITIES (67%); SKIING (67%); BALLOTS (64%); REFERENDUMS (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); CENSUS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BEND, OR, USA (95%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); ST GEORGE, UT, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); NAPLES, FL, USA (54%) OREGON, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



532 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/New Jersey; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Condos With Views of Lady Liberty, Skylines and Greens 

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
MAYBE you've already heard this one: There is an upscale condominium development under construction beside the Hudson River on New Jersey's Gold Coast, promising ''Manhattan-style elegance,'' skyline views, a quick commute and resort-quality amenities.
 But Port Liberte is something a little different. Really. 
While it is indisputable that a slew of such developments have gone up in the last 10 to 15 years on to the west bank of the Hudson, transforming the riverfront areas in one town after another from seamy industrial sites to hip new residential havens, this particular one stands out in several respects -- not the least of which is size.
 When complete, the development opposite the Statue of Liberty, near Liberty State Park, will have 1,813 residential units, ranging from three-story town-house-style condos, to units in midrise buildings, to homes in structures 15 stories and taller.
 Close by, but in another development, 932 more condos are planned for three high-rise towers -- 35, 43 and 50 stories -- to be built around a highly exclusive golf course opening next summer on adjacent property.
 ''There will be close to 3,000 homes in the neighborhood eventually,'' said David Barry, president of the Applied Companies, which owns Port Liberte and is a partner in developing the Liberty National Golf Course and the Condominiums at Liberty National -- the high-rise development. ''It's almost like a separate town within Jersey City.''
 Entering Port Liberte, driving in through a Gothic brick and stone arch just off the New Jersey Turnpike, is already like entering a small world of its own. The complex's only current neighbor on what was once gritty industrial turf is a small Army Reserve base, which sold much of its property to Applied for Port Liberte's slow-but-steady assemblage over the past decade.
 The $130 million golf course, which is being built on 155 acres of former Standard Oil property that had to be decontaminated, will not open until July 4. The course, which is said to be the most expensive ever built, is already drawing worldwide attention as a potential future site for the United States Open and as an icon of exclusivity.
 Individual club memberships are for sale at $500,000, which may be a record-setting number too. But the course, designed by Tom Kite and Bob Cupp, as a project for the chief executive of Reebok, Paul Fireman, has one-of-a-kind features like an 18th hole less than 1,000 yards from the statue of Lady Liberty and 12-minute ferry service from Manhattan.
 Port Liberte, where 805 condos are occupied, is marketing 155 units in a 15-story tower, where site work is under way, that will have views of the course -- and also the statue and the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge.
 One-bedroom units in the new tower start at $420,000, two-bedroom units at $635,000 and three-bedroom units at $1.395 million.
 Each condo in the tower will have its own parking space, and there is a ferry station on the site for commuters. The units will feature high ceilings, oversized windows and balconies to maximize the views. And both inside and out, they will offer the sort of amenities that Port Liberte has helped establish as almost required luxuries at high-end Gold Coast communities.
 Kitchens will be equipped with granite countertops, ''European ash wood-grain pillowed-edge'' cabinetry and stainless steel appliances, including an LG French Door refrigerator over a pull-out freezer, a Thermador gas cooktop and a Bosch wall oven, dishwasher and microwave.
 The marble baths will have custom-designed vanities, large soaking tubs, frameless glass-enclosed showers and Kohler fixtures.
 All Port Liberte residents have access to a clubhouse with a social lounge and catering kitchen, a riverfront ''infinity edge'' swimming pool with cabanas, a second pool with lap lanes, a spa area, a children's wading pool and a children's play area, a fitness club with massage room and saunas, tennis courts, basketball courts, a riverfront promenade and a private marina with individual boat slips.
 The complex was envisioned as a grand venture from the first, when the developer Paul Bucha broke ground in 1989 on a project that was to include 8.5 miles of canals winding past European-style town homes under arched Venetian-style bridges.
 A recession hit when only about half the buildings in the first phase of 363 units had taken shape, and Mr. Bucha's crew abruptly stopped work. Applied bought the project out of a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation bankruptcy, taking control in 1994 and finishing the first phase as planned.
 The Applied Companies, founded by Mr. Barry's father, Joseph Barry, was also building the Shipyard, a very large riverfront development in Hoboken, at that time. More recently, it has been at work on the residential and retail redevelopment of the shoreline much farther south in Long Branch.
 The part of Port Liberte that is a decade old is now a well-established neighborhood, set around a canal with walking paths; it already has a reputation as one of the nicest places to live in Jersey City.
 In 1997, Mr. Barry said, the rest of the project was ''replanned'' without the canals, which were judged to be infeasible for both financial and environmental reasons, and expanded, through the acquisition of additional industrial property and part of the Army base that once served as a munitions station and later served as a debris-sifting site after the Sept. 11 attacks at the World Trade Center.
 ''Since then, we've always been in one phase or another,'' Mr. Barry said. 
 Construction of the three high-rise towers is not scheduled to start until after the golf course is up and running, he said. Applied is a partner with Mr. Fireman's development firm, the Willowbend Development Company, on that project. The three towers are designed to be sail-shaped and are to wrap around the edge of the golf course and behind part of Port Liberte.
 Construction of 28,000 square feet to house convenience stores is also planned, but not yet under way, according to Mr. Barry. Currently, there is only one restaurant on the site, at the ferry station.


GRAPHIC: Photos: NOT YOUR USUAL 18TH HOLE -- The 18th hole at the Liberty National Golf Course will look directly on the Statue of Liberty. The course is next to Port Liberte, which will ultimately have 1,813 condominiums. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (89%); GOLF (87%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); STATE PARKS (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); FERRIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ARMIES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



533 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Finding a Path To Energy Efficiency

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Real Energy Savers Don't Wear Cardigans. Or Do They?'' (Economic View, Nov. 13) mentioned the possibility of using the Internet for real-time electricity billing as a way to promote energy savings. 
The Energy-Smart Pricing Plan, a three year-old pilot program in Illinois operated by the Community Energy Cooperative and Commonwealth Edison, has demonstrated the benefits of real-time pricing for residential electricity customers. The participants in this pilot program have reduced their peak demand for electricity, invested in more energy-efficient appliances, used less electricity and saved money.
 The plan has shown that consumers who are given dynamic information about the changing price of electricity can and do respond to those price signals, benefiting everyone. 

Kathryn Tholin
Chicago, Nov. 15

The writer is chief executive of the Center for Neighborhood Technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); ENERGY DEMAND (88%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (88%); PRODUCT PRICING (87%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



534 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Help Wanted: Academic Economists, Pro-Bush 

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
IT'S no secret that hurricanes and wars have swamped the economic agenda that George W. Bush planned for his second term. In the commotion, however, one fact has gone largely unnoticed: much of Washington's expert economic team has disappeared.
 The chairmanship of the Council of Economic Advisers will soon be vacant, and two spots on the Federal Reserve Board that were recently filled by academic economists already are. There is no assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax policy, and the director's chair at the Congressional Budget Office, currently occupied by Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, will soon be empty, too.
The White House and Congress need as many as five academic economists of high caliber, and it's not obvious where they will come from. The Republican Party may be facing something of a shallow bench.
 ''Bush's reputation in at least the academic community is about as low as you can imagine,'' said William A. Niskanen, who was a member of the council during President Ronald Reagan's first term and is now chairman of the Cato Institute, a libertarian research group. ''A lot of people would not be willing to give up a good tenured position for a position in the White House.'' 
 Back in 2003, the choice of N. Gregory Mankiw, a Harvard professor, to head the council initially provoked some wonderment from economists. He had condemned supporters of some Reagan-era tax cuts as ''charlatans and cranks'' in the first edition of his basic economics textbook, and he had suggested replacing part of the income tax with higher taxes on gasoline -- a nonstarter in this White House. But it's possible that the administration had few other options.
 ''It has been true, typically speaking, that Republican administrations have found it harder to find senior, more prominent academic economists for the C.E.A. members and chairman than have Democratic administrations,'' said Michael L. Mussa, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics, a nonpartisan research group in Washington, who was a member of the council during President Reagan's second term. 
 Mr. Mussa explained that the problem was partly one of specializations. ''In the economics profession, on the microeconomic and regulatory side, there you find a substantial number of Republicans,'' he said, ''but macroeconomists tend to lean a bit more to the Democratic side, on average.''
 And politics do matter for the appointments. ''If you have written publicly in strong opposition to the current administration, they will be less likely to be interested in you,'' said Kristin J. Forbes, a veteran of the council who is now an associate professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''On the Council of Economic Advisers, the priority is a very good economist who supports most of the president's economic policies.''
 The same is likely to be true for the positions at the Treasury, the Fed and the Congressional Budget Office. Two of the three spots being vacated by academic economists -- Ben S. Bernanke and Edward M. Gramlich at the Fed, and Mr. Holtz-Eakin at the budget office -- could well be filled with more of the same, Mr. Mussa said. (Mr. Bernanke is expected to become the Fed chairman; Mr. Gramlich has returned to the academic world, and Mr. Holtz-Eakin will join the Council on Foreign Relations.) Mr. Mussa added, however, that the economist at the budget office should have experience in policy and management.
 That's something that many academics lack. ''Generally, economists are not very slick,'' said Alicia H. Munnell, a professor of management sciences at Boston College who served on the Council of Economic Advisers when Bill Clinton was president and spent years working in the Federal Reserve system.
 Economists may not want to be political, either, she added. The reason has to do with incentives. ''Everybody wants to go back into academia and be respected, so you don't want to say anything too foolish that people are going to laugh at you afterward,'' Professor Munnell explained. 
 Professor Forbes recounted that she and her colleagues on the council had pledged never to support policies that they didn't believe in themselves. Nevertheless, the role of the council's chair can take on a decidedly political tilt. That much was clear when Professor Mankiw, the last chairman to serve for more than a few months, appeared before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress in February of last year.
 At times Professor Mankiw, who has returned to Harvard, sounded more like Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, than an economic adviser. ''The president is very focused on putting people back to work, at creating jobs,'' he said. ''The president has said that he wants to make the tax cuts permanent. He believes that is important for economic growth.'' 
 Once he even caught himself, but the result ended up the same: ''The president has -- we've worked with Congress in the past to extend unemployment benefits. The president will continue with Congress on that issue.''
 Quite a few economists might have a hard time acting as the president's mouthpiece today. Plenty of academics, even some who have supported Republicans in the past, have condemned the White House's current policies. In particular, the enormous federal deficit has elicited ire from both left and right.
 ''There are a number of Republicans, both the right-wingers and the moderates, who are very uncomfortable about the deficits, and particularly about the spending that we saw in the first four years,'' Mr. Mussa said. 
 Dismay about the war in Iraq could also prompt many academics to turn down the White House on principle, Mr. Niskanen said.
 One hint that the labor pool is drying up may be in the ages of some recent appointees. Professor Forbes was only 33 when she joined the council in 2003. Katherine Baicker and Matthew J. Slaughter, two academics confirmed as members this month by the Senate, are 34 and 36, respectively. Before taking up their new posts, both were associate professors, as Ms. Forbes is now -- not full professors, like the vast majority of their predecessors.
 Mr. Niskanen suggested that this change could stem from a perceived drop in the prestige of the council. ''Bush has centralized policy decision-making much more than any president in years,'' he said. ''The Council of Economic Advisers has been somewhat bypassed.'' 
 Mr. Niskanen said that there were now fewer meetings between members of the council and members of the president's cabinet than there were during his term. The council's offices have even been moved to a building farther from the White House.
 ALL of these tensions may have resulted in a sort of Catch-22. The president's inability to move forward with much of his second-term economic agenda -- dealing with Social Security, the tax system, immigration and tort rules -- may have dulled economists' eagerness to work with him. Yet he may need them in order to start the wheels moving.
 ''John Snow has talked about turning the tax commission report into legislation,'' Mr. Niskanen said of the Treasury secretary, ''but he does not have the skills on board to do that.'' 
 Professor Forbes, who also spent time at the Treasury, said that working in Washington demanded heavy sacrifices and large commitments of time. Her colleague there, Harvey S. Rosen of Princeton, added that spouses were often unwilling to move for short-term stints.
 But Professor Munnell praised the experience as ''extraordinary,'' adding that it also had a tendency to change the outlook of academic economists: ''Once you taste the real world, it's really hard to ignore it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 11, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Economic View column on Nov. 27, about federal jobs that are likely to be filled by academic economists, referred imprecisely to one such position. While that job, assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax policy, could be filled by an academic economist, it has recently been held by lawyers.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Dave Klug)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); FUEL TAX (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); CATO INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



535 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: The Capitalist Manifesto

BYLINE: By GREGG EASTERBROOK. 
Gregg Easterbrook is a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution, a contributing editor of The Atlantic Monthly and the author, most recently, of ''The Progress Paradox.''

 BODY:
THE MORAL CONSEQUENCES 
 OF ECONOMIC GROWTH
 By Benjamin M. Friedman.
 570 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35.
ECONOMIC growth has gotten a bad name in recent decades -- seen in many quarters as a cause of resource depletion, stress and sprawl, and as an excuse for pro-business policies that mainly benefit plutocrats. Some have described growth as a false god: after all, the spending caused by car crashes and lawsuits increases the gross domestic product. One nonprofit organization, Redefining Progress, proposes tossing out growth as the first economic yardstick and substituting a ''Genuine Progress Indicator'' that, among other things, weighs volunteer work as well as the output of goods and services. By this group's measure, American society peaked in 1976 and has been declining ever since. Others think ending the fascination with economic growth would make Western life less materialistic and more fulfilling. Modern families ''work themselves to exhaustion to pay for stuff that sits around not being used,'' Thomas Naylor, a professor emeritus of economics at Duke University, has written. If economic growth were no longer the goal, there would be less anxiety and more leisurely meals. 
 But would there be more social justice? No, says Benjamin Friedman, a professor of economics at Harvard University, in ''The Moral Consequences of Economic Growth.'' Friedman argues that economic growth is essential to ''greater opportunity, tolerance of diversity, social mobility, commitment to fairness and dedication to democracy.'' During times of expansion, he writes, nations tend to liberalize -- increasing rights, reducing restrictions, expanding benefits for the needy. During times of stagnation, they veer toward authoritarianism. Economic growth not only raises living standards and makes liberal social policies possible, it causes people to be optimistic about the future, which improves human happiness. ''It is simply not true that moral considerations argue wholly against economic growth,'' Friedman contends. Instead, moral considerations argue that large-scale growth must continue at least for several generations, both in the West and the developing world.
 Each American, the World Wildlife Federation calculates, demands more than four times as much of the earth as the global average for all men and women, most of this demand being resource consumption. Some think such figures mean American resource consumption must go down; to Friedman's thinking, any reduction would only harm the rest of the world by slowing global growth. What the statistic actually tells you, he would say, is that overall global resource consumption must go up, up, up -- to bring reasonable equality of living standards to the developing world and to encourage the liberalization and increased human rights that accompany economic expansion. If by the middle of the 21st century everyone on earth were to realize the living standard of present-day Portugal (taking into account expected population expansion), Friedman calculates, global economic output must quadruple. That's a lot of growth.
 ''The Moral Consequences of Economic Growth'' is an impressive work: commanding, insistent and meticulously researched. Much of it is devoted to showing that in the last two centuries, periods of growth have in most nations coincided with progress toward fairness, social mobility, openness and other desirable goals, while periods of stagnation have coincided with retreat from progressive goals. These sections sometimes have a history-lesson quality, discoursing on period novels, music and other tangential matters. And sometimes the history lesson gets out of hand, as when the author pauses to inform readers that the Federal Republic of Germany was commonly known as West Germany. More important, Friedman's attempt to argue that there is something close to an inevitable link between economic growth and social advancement is not entirely successful, a troublesome point since such a link is essential to his thesis.
 For example, Friedman contends that economic growth aided American, French and English social reforms of the second half of the 19th century. Probably, but there was also a recession in the United States beginning in 1893, yet pressure for liberal reforms continued: the suffrage, good-government and social-gospel movements strengthened during that time. It was in the midst of a depression, in 1935, that Social Security, a huge progressive leap, was enacted. Economic growth has sometimes been weak in the United States for much of the last three decades, yet in this period American society has become significantly more open and tolerant -- discrimination appears at an all-time low. On the flip side, the 20's were the heyday of the Klan in the United States, though the ''roaring'' economy of the decade was growing briskly.
 None of this disproves Friedman's hypothesis, only clouds its horizon. Surely liberalization works better where there is growth, while growth works better where there is liberalization -- as China is learning. But the relationship between the two forces may always be fuzzy; the modern era might have seen movement toward greater personal freedom and social fairness regardless of whether high-output industrial economies replaced low-growth agrarian systems. Repressive forces, from skinheads to Nazis and Maoists, may spring more from evil in the human psyche than from any economic indicator. Friedman's thesis is now being tested in China, home of the world's most impressive economic growth. If he's right, China will rapidly become more open, gentle and democratic. Let's hope he's right.
 Though ''The Moral Consequences of Economic Growth'' may not quite succeed in showing an iron law of growth and liberalization, Friedman is surely correct when he contends that economic expansion must remain the world's goal, at least for the next few generations. Growth, he notes, has already placed mankind on a course toward the elimination of destitution. Despite the popular misconception of worsening developing-world misery, the fraction of people in poverty is in steady decline. Thirty years ago 20 percent of the planet lived on $1 or less a day; today, even adjusting for inflation, only 5 percent does, despite a much larger global population. Probably one reason democracy is taking hold is that living standards are rising, putting men and women in a position to demand liberty. And with democracy spreading and rising wages giving ever more people a stake in the global economic system, it could be expected that war would decline. It has. Even taking Iraq into account, a study by the Center for International Development and Conflict Management, at the University of Maryland, found that the extent and intensity of combat in the world is only about half what it was 15 years ago.
 Friedman concludes his book by turning to psychology, which shows that people's assumptions about whether their lives will improve are at least as important as whether their lives are good in the present. Right now, American living standards and household income are the highest they have ever been; but because middle-class income has been stagnant for more than two decades, while the wealthy hoard society's gains, many Americans have negative expectations. ''America's greatest need today is to restore the reality. . . that our people are moving ahead,'' Friedman writes. How? He recommends lower government spending (freeing money for private investment), repealing upper-income tax cuts (to shrink thefederal deficit), higher Social Security retirement ages, choice-based Medicare and big improvements in the educational system (educated workers are more productive, which accelerates growth). Friedman doesn't worry that we will run out of petroleum, trees or living space. What he does worry about is that we will run out of growth.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christopher Serra)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); FAMILY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); WILDLIFE (71%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); LITERATURE (67%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Gregg Easterbrook; Benjamin M Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



536 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; Pg. 106

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Lives; A Close Encounter

BYLINE: By Uzodinma Iweala. 
Uzodinma Iweala is the author of ''Beasts of No Nation,'' a novel published this month by HarperCollins.

 BODY:
I return to Nigeria, after graduating from college. I have been to Abuja, the capital, a couple of times, but that was before my mother was appointed minister of finance.
Two weeks into my stay, on a rare occasion when my mother has time to chat, I tell her that I'm bored. Her response: ''Here are the car keys. Go and buy some fruit.'' Overjoyed, I jump into the car, salute the heavily armed security at the gate and speed off in search of -- fruit. 
 The young boy sees me, or rather he sees the car first -- a silver BMW -- and quickly springs up from his spot under a small tree, eager to sell his bunches of bananas and bottles of roasted peanuts. His dingy shirt hangs low over too-short shorts. His sucked-in cheeks and puckered lips suggest that although he appears to be about 12, he already knows the sourness of life. By the time I stop the car, he is at the passenger door, grunting: ''Banana 300 naira (roughly $2). Groundnut 200 naira. Sah!'' I look skeptically at his black-striped bananas and bargain him down to 200 total for the fruit and nuts. When he agrees, I reach for my wallet and hand him a crisp 500 naira note. He doesn't have change, so I tell him not to worry. He is grateful and smiles a row of perfect teeth.
 When, two weeks later, I see this same boy, I am more aware of my position in Nigerian society. Security people at the house have told me: ''You are the son of a minister! Kai! You should enjoy this country!'' But it's hard to find enjoyment in a place where it's not that rare to see a little boy who should be in school standing on the corner selling fruit in the intense heat. My parents have raised me and my three siblings to be aware of the privilege we have been afforded and the responsibility it brings. ''To whom much is given.. . .'' my grandfather always says. And I have been given much, from education at the best schools in the United States to this car and its 12 speakers, which have changed the way I listen to music. But I worry about what is expected of me. 
 I pull over and wind down my window. He wears the same shirt and shorts and has a bunch of bananas and a bottle of peanuts ready. I wave them away. ''What's up?'' I ask him. He answers in broken English: ''I dey oh. But I no get money to buy book for school.'' I reach into my wallet and pull out two fresh 500 naira notes. ''Will this help?'' I ask. He looks around nervously before sticking his hand into the car to take the bills. One thousand naira is a lot of money to someone whose family probably makes about 50,000 naira ($380) or less each year. ''Thank you, sah,'' he says. ''Thank you very much, oh!''
 Later, I say to my mother: ''That's the way it works? He doesn't have any money so I dash him some. Trickle-down economics, right?'' My mother winces when anyone speaks of the slow progress of the economic reforms. ''No, I'm trying to better his situation first,'' she says. The next morning the Secret Service officers caution me, ''Sometimes in this place, when you give a little, people think you're a fountain of opportunity.''
 It's true that people will take advantage of you in Nigeria, but this happens everywhere in the world. I wonder if my little friend actually used the money for schoolbooks. What if he's a fraud? And then I wonder about my own motives. Did I give to alleviate my own guilt? Am I using him? Later, I realize that I don't know his name or the least bit about him nor did I think to ask.
 Over the next six months, I am busy working in a refugee camp in northern Nigeria, biking across France and Spain and writing. Sometime after I return, I go for a drive, and I see the boy standing on the road next to a man who sells exotic birds. He jumps up and down to get my attention and has a big smile ready when I roll down the window. 
 ''Oga sah!'' he says. ''Long time.'' ''Are you in school now?'' I ask. 
 He nods. 
 ''That's good,'' I say. A silence falls as we look at each other, and then I realize what he wants. ''Here,'' I hold out a 500 naira note. ''Take this.''
 He shakes his head vigorously and steps back as if offended. ''What's wrong?'' I ask. ''It's a gift.'' 
 He shakes his head again and brings his hand from behind his back. His face glistens with sweat. He drops a bunch of bananas and a bottle of peanuts in the front seat before he says, ''I've been waiting to give these to you.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Bob Hambly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2006



537 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Poetry Chronicle; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2864 words

BYLINE: By Joshua Clover and Joel Brouwer. 
Joshua Clover's most recent book is ''The Matrix''; his next collection of poems, ''The Totality for Kids,'' will be published next year. Joel Brouwer is the author of two books of poems, ''Exactly What Happened'' and ''Centuries.'' He teaches at the University of Alabama.

 BODY:
STARTLE RESPONSE. By Heather Fuller. (O Books, paper, $12.) There are as many good poetry books being written as ever, but goodness gets wearisome. Fuller's third book is a relief from this, lacking the steady-handed competence, ingratiating charm and middle-aged melancholia from which much verse suffers. Despite a table of contents promising careful, cubic order -- three sections of nine parts (less one at the end) -- ''Startle Response'' is uneven, unfamiliar and charged with intensity. 
It wants to be new speech: ''G says jargon is like J's new language / like prisoners invent a code in other words'' a poem called ''Comic'' begins, encoding the desires that come when regular speech feels anesthetic. This quest to rescue real experience by telling it in other words is central to poetry, and erotically charged in its urge for raw experience. This can be unsettling. Over and over we're asked to steady ourselves, to recalibrate how that line got us to this one: ''when you sleep you miss / the courtesy service dream,'' Fuller writes in ''Notes on the Tarmac,'' tracking something about mobility and modernity. Prufrock's cheap retreats return as the future's anonymous motels in which the personal is the perishable. Just then, one decides ''dream'' is an imperative commanding what follows, ''the trouble of the ones / who'd slept there but / that is now your trouble.'' Endlessly displacing one another in featureless rooms, we have to share nightmares, the language and displacement itself. One is always trying to catch one's balance, as if startled, as one often is amid this jagged and terrific book. Joshua Clover
AMERICAN SUBLIME: Poems. By Elizabeth Alexander. (Graywolf, paper, $14.) A birthday sweater of a book: substantial, thoughtful, practical, dull. Alexander's concerns are the fine lines between the personal and political, the private and public, the past and present, and she explores them with relentless levelheadedness. Even the collection's arrangement is carefully balanced: it begins with a section of poems mostly about family, friends and fellow writers, culminates with a sequence addressing the 1839 Amistad rebellion and pivots on a center section focused on aesthetics. The poems of the first group are smartly observed and sometimes beguilingly rhythmic, but often ponderous, as in ''Ode,'' which begins with a genial description of a group of mothers on a beach (''thigh flesh shirred as gentle wind shirrs a pond''), but ends with an awkward stab at profundity: ''This is who we are, no, This is what / we have done and continue to do. / We labor in love. We do it. We mother.'' The Amistad sequence stumbles under its burdens of diligent facticity, unconvincing dramatic monologues and stilted rhetorical gestures. (When the captured mutineers are let out of their cells to exercise before a gawking crowd, Alexander writes, ''The Africans do not smile,'' as if avoiding the contraction will imbue the facile image with solemnity.) The best moments are those in which present and past collide, sending off welcome sparks. In one poem, Alexander imagines finding Ralph Ellison's TV antenna in her flower bed (''It picks up mysterious whispers''), and in another the sight of ''a black man . . . nodding and smiling / with both hands visible, mouthing / 'Yes, Officer,' '' sets off a rapid chain of associations, from the poet's father teaching her ''the words 'cooperate,' 'officer,' '' to ''the whisper that separates / obsequious from safe'' to ''Armstrong, / Johnson, Robinson, Mays.'' This is Alexander's greatest gift: her ability to demonstrate, too dutifully but still convincingly, Faulkner's claim that ''the past is never dead. It's not even past.'' Joel Brouwer
 THE LIFE OF A HUNTER: Poems. By Michelle Robinson. (University of Iowa, paper, $16.) Jargon is one neighborhood's language used in another; poems have the grace to be downtown, where kinds of speech clang against each other. In that regard, ''The Life of a Hunter'' is very much a city book. Robinson likes equally the sounds of heightened diction and urban noir: ''How can I describe to you the sadness of my precision?'' one poem asks, and not three lines later, ''We threw down right / there, behind a Mexican grocery store.'' This yoking seems made for the street scenes and wandering monologues that fill the book's cityscape; it brings tension to love poems as well. One begins, ''The things that are false clamor and accost us,'' sounding like Augustine or Marcus Aurelius; soon enough, the narrator's panting ''oh jesus her kleptomania! Those legs legs legs etc!'' Well, love's a mixed bag. That stolen heart, those exclamation points; are they on loan from the 50's, or here from sheer elation? Elsewhere, the book seems anxious about its tactics: ''everything I say is a trembling non sequitur,'' Robinson writes, apologetically, in ''Pepper.'' But the previous line has incidentally described things better, ''not unlike an intermission from madness, greasy and sublime.'' The book concerns what unalikes -- people, situations, tongues -- might have to say to one other. The distances and disparities, implausibly, hold it together. J.C.
 WISE FISH. Tales in 6/8 Time: Poems. By Adrian Castro. (Coffee House, paper, $14.) Castro, a native Miamian of Cuban and Dominican descent and a practicing priest of the Yoruban religion, writes poems about the Caribbean melting pot in sinuous and syncopated lines peppered with Spanish, Creole and West African phrases. The fish of the title have grown wise because they have witnessed so much history passing above them: migrations, invasions and abductions; refugees, conquerors and traders. Castro, too, seems to have mastered the region's complex history, and he moves through his material with fluidity and grace, equally authoritative whether he's writing about conquistadors ''talcumed with salt & sea breeze / old gunpowder . . . Moorish cumin'' or contemporary Miami, ''where the conspiracy of languages bounces off heads like radio / signals.'' The images are rarely this specific; usually Castro reaches for archetypal emblems -- sand, ocean, moon, sun -- in his effort to create a synthetic mythology for all the peoples that have crisscrossed the Caribbean, often in desperation or captivity. The most ambitious poem, ''Misa Caribena,'' imagines a future where integrations of languages, nations, religions and races are transformed from sources of conflict to means of survival: ''because we mix we survive reborn / Misa porque tu con yo yo con tu / todos mezclados -- / Misa caribena.'' These poems are not dry history lessons; they also make music. Castro has given live recitals with accompanying traditional drums, and even a cursory glance suggests his poems -- which seem to be trying to dance their way off the page as they move through whiplash enjambments and elastic line lengths, leaping over white space and letting out occasional ecstatic yelps (''ay dios! / (ay dios!) / ((aaayyy!))'') -- would truly come alive on the stage. ''Wise Fish'' is a serious and seriously enjoyable contribution to our flourishing Latino literature. J.B.
 MIDWEST ECLOGUE: Poems. By David Baker. (Norton, $23.95.) Poetry often stands accused of being prose laid out funny. Baker's newish formalism is prose laid out like traditional poetry, and shoehorned into a simulacrum of taut meter to go with slack language. At his best, Baker finds a spare descriptive mode; ''October Storm'' gets incisively at the ragged clarity found in chaotic crisis. More often, he offers a compendium of trends in quality verse these days: here's the science poem, as it relates to our inner lives; here's the alchemy poem, ditto. There's even a piece for the 19th-century poet John Clare, Joseph Cornell's replacement as the artist with enough cognoscenti appeal to launch a thousand poems. In ''Bedlam,'' Baker does his own language no favors by quoting the broken and astonishing Clare at length. The hard-to-swallow analogy between himself and Clare leads shortly to a position that can only be called compassionate condescension: ''It kills me to think what a decent pill / might have meant to the man.'' If only all poetic problems were as tractable. J.C.
 THIRTY YEARS WAR: Love Poems. By Patricia Ferrell. (Zoo Press, paper, $14.95.) ''Ardent one moment, indifferent the next,'' one of Ferrell's poems begins. That's an apt if unintentional summary of this collection's merits and flaws. Many of the poems are vigorous, tough-minded reports -- conveyed in crisp lines and tightly controlled stanzas -- on the ancient, unending battle between the sexes. (The words ''war'' and ''love'' in the book's title are interchangeable; ''thirty years'' seems to refer to the length of the author's tour of duty on love's front lines.) In ''Refugee,'' the speaker is displaced by an emotional skirmish in her own rooms: ''Sometimes this mound of anger is the only / Earth there is to stand on. One morning / I woke up filled with words because / I was filled with you / And I did not know which was better. To live always / This way would be a misery of such tragic beauty, / Like being shot every day upon / The smile of waking.'' This is steely and convincing stuff, but elsewhere, Ferrell undercuts her authority by lapsing into a strangely self-conscious glibness, as if, suddenly embarrassed (or frightened?) by the gravity of her ideas, she wants to cloak them with frivolity. The snarky ''Dreams of Academe'' takes accurate but hackneyed potshots at poet-professors; ''Pet-Witnessed Crimes'' is a soppy-stern bit of bathos spoken by a dog; and ''City Sparrow'' is so fey and sentimental (''It was so brave and small . . . just a dot / On the black expanse of summer asphalt'') that I can only believe it's meant to be comic. The cumulative impression is of repeated masterly gestures toward seriousness thwarted by a coy reluctance to settle down. Ferrell might be alluding to this conflict in ''The Friend-Boat,'' where she says of ''the honest me,'' ''I will never go to it, but / I feel it is my closest friend.'' I'm not sure why Ferrell lays claim to such a categorical rejection of honesty, since her work is most effective when it's most candid: ''I have a human voice, / It is flawed.'' J.B.
 QUIPU. By Arthur Sze. (Copper Canyon, paper, $15.) Sze turns often to what was once called ''natural philosophy'' -- particularly astrophysics and botany -- to detail worlds for his all-too-human actors. He's not alone. But if a common, unstated goal is to borrow a scientific rigor against poetry's reputation for riot, Sze need not worry. In his eighth book, his lines and logic are thoughtful and sere as ever; few current lyricists so little need to outsource structural soundness. A classically elegant Sze line from the long title poem runs, ''Who can unravel the spin of an elegy and counterspin it into an ode?'' But not all is subatomic metaphor, and much hangs on the sensual; striding an open New Mexico landscape, ''Quipu'' can be a pretty sexy book. The second poem moves swiftly from rice paper and beeswax to hair, nipples and toes. Sometimes this urgency is explicit (''He leaves teeth marks / on her neck; she groans and shows the whites / of her eyes''); sometimes it's immanent, as when ''Earthshine'' ends ''it all goes and comes at once.'' Still, Sze's bone-dry attention sharpens itself often on less pleasant meditations: ''Thoughts inch through / memory,'' he reflects in ''Aqueous Gold,'' ''the way maggots inch through a cepe.'' If the simile structure feels old-fashioned, like several of this book's themes (the calm truth of the natural world; the awful and delightful debacles of the flesh; the effort to reconcile these things), ''Quipu'' is a reminder of how familiarity might not breed contempt but elegant care. J.C.
 LAMPBLACK & ASH. By Simone Muench. (Sarabande, cloth, $20.95; paper, $13.95.) Many poets have developed aesthetic crushes on the French surrealist Robert Desnos; his reputation as the dreamiest of the dreamers in Andre Breton's circle, his enthralling poems and his death in the Nazi camp at Terezin make him a fascinating figure. Muench has fallen for Desnos harder than most, yet despite her poetry's acknowledged debt to his early work, it does not feel derivative. Muench tends to begin a poem with a vague suggestion of setting or theme, and then piles on gorgeous phrases: ''In second-story windows, / girls in fine coal dresses undress, scrim of their slips / lemon light: thin as a bone-button that unfastens / the sky.'' Muench's lush figures give great pleasure to both ear and eye, and her imaginative leaps can feel both mysterious and inevitable, in a way that recalls not only Desnos, but also Neruda. The danger is that such sensory smorgasbords can seem self-indulgent. Carol Muske-Dukes, in her introduction, writes of ''Muench's refusal to pursue the image for its own sake,'' but in fact many of the poems here do exactly that. ''The OED Defines Red-Hot'' is a joyous riff on the color red (''Cerise / streak across her cheeks. Blood -- / blistered. Auburn hair. She lingers / in the arbor beneath mimosa trees, / sipping Madeira'') but seems to have no larger reason to exist, no overarching structure, no real development. The poem could be twice as long or half as long -- you could probably even read it backward -- and its effect would be the same. If Muench can rein in her extravagant language rather than allow it to run away with her, the results might be even more spectacular. J.B.
 COMPANY OF MOTHS. By Michael Palmer. (New Directions, paper, $16.95.) It has been suggested that Palmer, a magnificent San Francisco poet, is the best French poet currently working in English. This is perhaps the most generous thing said about France of late, but it falls short of describing Palmer's astringent blend of surrealism and symbolism, and his prodigious grasp of Western intellectual traditions. He's got a lot of eclat. Inevitably, he gets taken for an aesthete. This isn't much of a complaint, given Mallarme's reminder that ''Everything can be summed up in Aesthetics and Political Economy,'' and the fact that nobody wants a versifying Karl Marx (Louis Zukofsky excepted). Palmer's drifting, moonlit zone (hence all the moths) is absolutely specific as it is dreamily unfamiliar; it pushes up against reality even as it recedes to reveal itself as an artful contrivance. ''The red vowels, how they spill / then spell a sea of red,'' begins one such dialectical fairy scene, a poem called ''The.'' The images tempt recognition, ''the bridge's threads / against flame-scarred hills,'' before remembering the view is made of ink ''And us outside / by other worlds.'' France it ain't; poems seem to come from a country to be named later, where time is out of joint, ''the Future-Past'' creeps unceasingly into the present and the countryside is bedecked with mysterious signage: ''Streets of the Poor Text,'' ''The Paper House,'' ''The Imam's Delight'' and skywriters scrawling ''Rats Rule!'' What's it like to live in a world of mysterious signs? That is the question -- for daily life as much as poetry -- to which these poems are a kind of answer. J.C.
 HERE, BULLET. By Brian Turner. (Alice James, paper, $14.95.) The day of the first moonwalk, my father's college literature professor told his class, ''Someday they'll send a poet, and we'll find out what it's really like.'' Turner has sent back a dispatch from a place arguably more incomprehensible than the moon -- the war in Iraq -- and deserves our thanks for delivering in these earnest and proficient poems the kinds of observations we would never find in a Pentagon press release. Turner served from 2003 to 2004 with the Third Stryker Brigade Combat Team, Second Infantry Division. His poems about his tour of duty have a hurried quality, as if they had been drafted not back home in tranquil recollection but on the ground, in spare moments between patrols. As a result, his lines can have a terrific immediacy. A poem called ''2000 lbs.,'' more than 100 lines long, describes a suicide bomber's attack in a crowded square in Mosul in meticulous detail, from a taxi driver's memories of first love to bridal shop mannequins torn to shreds to a civil affairs officer who one moment is blowing soap bubbles out his Humvee's window -- ''something for the children, something beautiful, / translucent globes with their iridescent skins / drifting on vehicle exhaust and the breeze'' -- and the next is staring at the bloody ''absurd stumps'' from which his hands have vanished. Turner's sentences are sometimes less keen than his observations. Some poems here feel too dashed off, as if literally transcribed from a journal. But Turner's most consistent mode is one of brisk, precise -- and nonpartisan -- attention to both the terrors and the beauty he found among Iraq's ruins. In these poems, Iraq emerges from the fog of political oratory into tangibility, becoming a place of ''artillery shells / sewn into the carcasses of dead farm animals,'' but also a place where ''Thistleweed bursts open in purple / while honeybees drone and hover.'' J.B.


GRAPHIC: Photos: David Baker. (Photograph by Ann Townsend)
Adrian Castro. (Photograph by Pedro Portal)
Simone Muench (Photograph by Kevin Smith)
Michael Palmer. (Photograph by Cris Felver)
Michelle Robinson. (Photograph by Santeri Voutilainen)
 Arthur Sze. (Photograph by Gloria GrahamDrawings (Drawings by Danijel Zezelj)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); POETRY (91%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (89%) Books and Literature; Poetry and Poets; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

PERSON: Joshua Clover; Joel Brouwer; Heather Fuller; Elizabeth Alexander; Michelle Robinson; Adrian Castro; David Baker; Patricia Ferrell; Arthur Sze; Simone Muench; Michael Palmer; Brian Turner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



538 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Nomadic Radio Museum Finds a Home

BYLINE: By THERESA EVERLINE

 BODY:
THE Vintage Radio and Communications Museum has finally found a permanent home. The museum, which has been bouncing from place to place since it was founded in 1990 and had been dark for part of the 90's, has settled down in Windsor.
 Its municipal hosts had hoped the museum would help spur economic development, but for a variety of reasons it has lost one home after another.
Now, after the old factory building it is buying with the help of Windsor is renovated, the museum expects to reopen next summer, and stay open. 
 ''These guys have been thrown around from one place to another,'' said James Burke, the economic development director of Windsor. ''They're resilient. They seem to land on their feet.'' 
 The museum's thousands of holdings include radios mostly from the 1920's through the 1960's, many the size of large suitcases, with Art Deco styling. There are Edison Victrola record players, 1930's Teletype machines, a Crosley Shelvador refrigerator with a radio built into it and an 1895 machine the size of a kitchen table that functioned like a primitive word processor. It also has vintage radios by Atwater Kent and Philco, candlestick telephones from the 1920's and Morse code equipment.
 Over the years, the museum has found itself both dismissed and courted by Connecticut towns. Because of limited finances, the museum has rented several spaces that proved to be only stopovers, often because the property was purchased after it had been improved by the museum's volunteers. Now, having just moved the museum into the sixth location since it was founded, its all-volunteer force is optimistic that they finally have a permanent home. They are completing the $600,000 purchase of a one-story former manufacturing space on Pierson Lane in Windsor.
 The building needs about $160,000 in work, from refinishing the floors in the 18,000-square-foot building to installing insulation. Meanwhile, the museum has set up a one-room display of dozens of its most interesting pieces, itself a significant achievement for a museum that hasn't actually been open since 2000.
 ''One thing that happens when you own a small museum: you don't get a lot of financial support, but you get a lot of stuff,'' said John Ellsworth, the museum's founder and director. 
 Even when the collection has not been accessible for viewing, the museum's volunteers have conducted outreach and educational sessions, going to schools and Scout meetings.
 ''I always thought it could be an educational place,'' said Mr. Ellsworth, 52, of Avon. ''That's still the main focus.''
 For example, during classes for Boy Scouts and other children's groups, ''Kids can learn how to build a crystal radio in an hour and a half,'' Mr. Ellsworth said. Staff members also regularly bring some of the museum's machines to gatherings like antique car shows.
 The holdings and the staff are well respected in the vintage radio collectors' community.
 ''We have a nice club, but it's nothing like what they have up there,'' said Art Kingsley, 82, of Highland Falls, N.Y., a member of the Hudson Valley Antique Radio and Phono Society. ''They have people who are very knowledgeable and very good at organization.''
 Mr. Kingsley was also aware of the museum's logistical difficulties.
 ''It seemed like they were just getting on their feet and then they'd have to move again,'' he said.
 The combination of very little money and constantly growing holdings has caused the museum to be at the mercy of whatever real estate deal it could find. After its 1990 debut in New Britain, the museum closed in 1992. East Hartford officials offered the museum space in a downtown storefront in 1996.
 ''We saw them as a traffic generator,'' said Mayor Timothy D. Larson of East Hartford, who was the administrative assistant to former Mayor Robert M. DeCrescenzo when the museum arrived. ''Several years ago, East Hartford had really turned a corner, and we felt that this would be another arrow in the quiver to help attract people to the downtown.''
 The museum moved in and spruced up the building, which the town sold a year later to a real estate company that raised the rent, forcing the museum to move.
 With the help of city officials, it moved to two other places in East Hartford over the next two years. It had to leave its third East Hartford home when the state said it needed the land to widen I-84.
 ''The state said it would take care of our moving expenses, new letterhead costs, and all that,'' Mr. Ellsworth said. Instead, the museum moved itself and used the $32,000 from the state as a down payment on its own building, in Windsor, after officials courted it with a $35,000 loan and grant-writing assistance.
 ''We went out of our way to do what we could to prop up this radio museum,'' Mr. Larson said. Mr. Ellsworth ''had no money and we had no space, so it wasn't much of a match,'' Mr. Larson added. ''I think we did help him out, but ultimately we couldn't do more.''
 At the time, the radio museum was an asset more in theory than in reality. After all, it had not been able to keep up its monthly rent to East Hartford on the first property it occupied there. While in East Hartford, the museum drew from 2,000 to 3,000 people a year.
 Despite the lack of tangible financial benefits, both East Hartford and Windsor saw the museum's presence as a positive force for downtown revitalization. But John Simone, the executive director of the Connecticut Main Street Center, a nonprofit organization devoted to the revitalization of the state's downtown districts, has his doubts.
 ''The first floor should be retail or a restaurant that will generate foot traffic,'' Mr. Simone said. ''But it appears the radio museum did not generate any foot traffic.'' Its presence, he said, ''would not make a lot of sense where you're trying to create density.''
 Nonetheless, Windsor officials wanted the organization.
 ''From an overall community economic standpoint, cultural attractions add to the interest of the community and the educational attractiveness,'' Mr. Burke said. ''Those guys are very committed volunteers. They also had a very strong educational component. They work with Cub Scouts, school groups and so forth.''
 The museum's first location in Windsor was an 85,000-square-foot factory building next to the train station downtown. The factory's size and poor handicapped accessibility posed overwhelming challenges for the museum, which was never able to open there.
 ''We couldn't advertise, we couldn't say that these are our set hours,'' said Chris Watts, 32, a volunteer from Windsor. ''There are guys who have joined us in the last few years who have never seen the museum up and open for business.''
 The museum gave up on the space and in October sold it to a developer, who wanted to build condos at the site, and the museum was on the move again. 
 The staff has spent the last months whittling down the collection by selling duplicate pieces and equipment not directly related to its communications-themed mission. The sales raised about $12,000.
 ''A couple of volunteers just walked away, because they couldn't stomach it,'' Mr. Ellsworth said. ''We had some knock-down, drag-out arguments.''
 Bernie Michaels, 72, a volunteer from West Springfield, Mass., said that now that the museum was in a smaller space, he hoped it would generate discipline in its acquisitions.
 ''Some of us had to say, we're not junk collectors,'' he said.
 Ed Sax, 76, a volunteer from Bloomfield, pointed to several vintage slide projectors.
 ''Every few weeks we'd find something at the door,'' he said. ''That's the kind of thing people like to give us. It's stuff they don't want to see going into the dump.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Under John Ellsworth, above, the Vintage Radio and Communications Museum is moving to a new location in Windsor, bottom. At left, a Fada radio from the 1930's. (Photographs by M. J. Fiedler for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); CHILDREN (78%) Radio; Finances

ORGANIZATION: vintage radio and communications museum (windsor, conn)

PERSON: john ellsworth; Theresa Everline

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Windsor (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



539 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CROWN HTS./WASHINGTON HTS.; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: An Island Rift, Repaired A World Away

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
The neighborhoods of Washington Heights, Manhattan, and Crown Heights, Brooklyn, are miles apart, separated by almost two dozen intervening communities. Unlike the Dominican Republic and Haiti, countries that supply a large portion of their respective inhabitants, the two neighborhoods do not share an island, or a border. 
 But over the summer and the fall, the talk in both neighborhoods has focused on a single topic: the proceedings of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, which ruled in October that the Dominican Republic was illegally denying birth certificates, and therefore citizenship, to babies born to Haitian immigrants. Without these documents, children risk deportation and are cut off from state services, including education.
The two countries, on the island of Hispaniola, have a fractious history; Haiti occupied its neighbor from 1822 to 1844, and now sends it large numbers of illegal low-paid workers, who are both resented and depended on. Many Dominicans view the court's decision as unjust and believe that their country is ill-equipped to deal with large numbers of immigrants from Haiti, the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.
 But many of New York's Dominicans find themselves unexpectedly sympathetic to the Haitians' situation. ''We're immigrants, and as immigrants we understand what living in another country is about,'' said Dr. Rafael Lantigua, a Dominican-American internist at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital. ''We understand that a human being moves to a town where they can improve their economic situation. You hear often, among the Dominican community, 'We're the Haitians here.' '' 
 The issue even made its way into New York politics. In July, City Councilman Miguel Martinez, who is Dominican-American, introduced a resolution condemning discrimination against Haitians within the Dominican Republic. The resolution passed to widespread praise from Dominican leaders in New York, as well as some rebuke: Maximo Padilla, a special assistant to Leonel Fernandez, president of the Dominican Republic, was quoted as saying that the Council was ''ignorant of private affairs being handled between Haiti and the Dominican Republic.'' 
 Interviews in Washington Heights suggested cautious support for Haitian immigrants. One Dominican-American who fell into this camp was Francisco Campusano, who cuts hair at the Celeste Beauty Salon on St. Nicholas Avenue. ''I think if a child is born on the Dominican side, then he's Dominican,'' he said. ''It's like my son; if he's born here, he's going to be American.'' ALEX MINDLIN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); LITIGATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); DEPORTATION (70%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); INTERVIEWS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%) 

ORGANIZATION: Inter-American Court of Human Rights

PERSON: Alex Mindlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%) Haiti; Dominican Republic; Washington Heights (NYC); Crown Heights (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



540 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; STREET LEVEL/Lower Manhattan; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: The Last Days of the Little Guys

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ. 
E-mail: streetlevel@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AS shopping districts go, the corner of Dey Street and Broadway, in Lower Manhattan, hardly carries the prestige of Madison Avenue or the relentless bustle of Herald Square. Still, for a certain brand of merchant, one who relies partly on tourists and impulse buys, this is one of the city's best locations. Because the A, C, 2 and 3 trains, among others, stop nearby, there is plenty of foot traffic. The popular discount department store Century 21 is a block west, and a bus carrying ground-zero-bound tourists stops on the corner. 
 ''We would have to be in Times Square to equal this location,'' said Geoff Feder, the manager of Cookie Island, a gourmet cookie shop at 189 Broadway, a two-story building. 
Like the five other tenants that occupy the building, Mr. Feder has been thinking about location lately. That is because the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is acquiring 189 Broadway, as well as the larger Corbin Building, across the street, to construct a $785 million transit hub for Lower Manhattan. The buildings will be taken under the state's powers of eminent domain, and while the Corbin Building, a sliver-thin late-19th-century survivor, will be preserved, 189 Broadway will be demolished, and tenants in both buildings will be displaced early next year. 
 More than 100 businesses will be forced to relocate, a cross section of New York commerce that includes a golf shop, several law offices, a Christian Science reading room, two discount jewelers, a beauty shop, a tailor and a temp agency. The M.T.A. has offered to help the businesses relocate, and store owners will be reimbursed for expenses like moving costs. But as often happens when property is acquired under eminent domain, many merchants being displaced feel deeply, almost existentially cheated. 
 ''The money is, like, a joke,'' said Mirza Mamur of the Glamour Art Gallery, which specializes in framing panoramic photos and which opened at 189 Broadway shortly after 9/11. David Sutton, who owns New York Stocking Exchange, a lingerie outlet next door, added, ''I spent nine years building up this business, and I can't even announce a going-out-of-business sale because the city hasn't given me a moving date.''
 The transit center is a federally funded project, meaning that the M.T.A. must follow strict federal guidelines on compensation, said Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the transit authority. The agency, he said, is trying to be as flexible as possible in setting a vacate date, in order to allow the businesses to stay through the holiday shopping season.
 There is a precedent for this sort of disruption downtown. New Yorkers of a certain age will recall Radio Row, the strip of electronic stores on Cortlandt Street that sat at the heart of one of the city's nastier legal tussles. In 1961, the Port Authority announced that it was eyeing the neighborhood as the future site of the World Trade Center. Soon after, Oscar Nadel, proprietor of Oscar's Radio and TV, along with his fellow merchants, waged a bitter battle against the Port Authority, hiring a civil liberties lawyer and holding a funeral procession for the endangered species they described as Mr. Small Businessman. 
 The issue wound its way to the upper reaches of state government, and the trade center went forward only after the United States Supreme Court declined to hear the case. A few years later, a planned civic center near City Hall resulted in the condemnation of more businesses, including Gasner's, a restaurant popular with a string of mayors. 
 Some of the business people being displaced this time around have coalesced as the Ground Zero Small Business Association, and two weeks ago, they gathered for a rally on the steps of City Hall, waving signs with slogans like ''What Are We? Chopped Liver?'' In spirit, the event recalled the Radio Row campaign, but the murky politics of a post-9/11 downtown complicates matters. As Isaac Zafarani, a manager at Renaissance Jewelers, a discount store in the Corbin Building, put it, ''Unfortunately, people don't want to be seen as going against progress.''
 Downtown is moving forward. The crowds are returning. Construction on the transit hub began this month, and the difficult days and months that followed the terrorist attacks are receding in the minds of shoppers and real estate developers. But businessmen like Mr. Zafarani, who stayed open when lower Broadway resembled a war zone, are unlikely to take part in the renewal. The downtown rents are too high for him to stay. 
 Mr. Feder, the manager at Cookie Island, has decided to close. ''On December 24th,'' he said, ''I'll turn the lights off.'' And then? ''I'm going on unemployment,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Corbin Building (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); RETAILERS (89%); PROPERTY LAW (88%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (76%); RETAIL BAKERIES (76%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (76%); RELOCATIONS (74%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (71%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (64%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); RELIGION (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Steven Kurutz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



541 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: A Matter of Scale in Brooklyn

 BODY:
When it was first put forward, the proposed Atlantic Yards mega-development in Brooklyn offered some excellent features, most particularly affordable housing and jobs for local residents. The project seemed promising, if the developer could address the biggest downside: the addition of traffic downtown, where the streets are already clogged. Since then, the plan has become bigger and the number of prospective jobs smaller, and there could be even worse traffic congestion.
 The project has an evolving razzle-dazzle Frank Gehry design and an 18,000-seat arena for the Nets basketball team, which could become a real anchor for development -- unlike the doomed plan for a football stadium on the West Side of Manhattan, which would have deadened, rather than enlivened, the neighborhood around it. But the project has grown by nearly one million square feet since its unveiling two years ago. For economic, aesthetic and practical reasons, it should be pared back. 
Change is normal for a massive project, and this one covers some 21 acres, including the arena, 16 other buildings and 7 acres of green space. But what should remain constant is the spirit of the development. The developer, Bruce Ratner (a partner of The Times in developing its new headquarters), earned much good will by reaching out to surrounding communities and pledging that 50 percent of the housing units would be pegged to low- and middle-income residents. That is no longer the case, given the planned addition of nearly 3,000 apartments for sale at market prices, though another 1,000 moderately priced units could be added off the site. 
 Meanwhile, the number of jobs projected may be a small fraction of the original 10,000 promised, in part because commercial square footage has given way to additional housing.
 Mr. Ratner has always made it clear that he expects government aid in preparing the arena site, and the city and state have each committed to pitch in $100 million in cash to help. There is no reason to expect taxpayer money to be used to help fund a profit-making real estate venture like this one; those costs should be absorbed by the builder. 
 It's understandable that residents bordering the project do not want such drastic change, but that in itself is no reason to stop the development. It is difficult to build in New York as it is. Growth would come to a screeching halt forever if neighborhoods could veto projects to keep the status quo. But the residents are absolutely right in pointing out that traffic in the area, especially at Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues, is already atrocious almost any time of day -- even on weekends. Mr. Ratner wants to promote use of mass transit, which makes sense, considering that the site sits over a major hub for the subway and Long Island Rail Road. Mr. Ratner will also improve the yards as part of the deal. Still, more innovation is needed, like the idea of using a system of shuttle buses and satellite parking for arena events.
 The city's nonpartisan Independent Budget Office calculates the arena would produce a modest benefit for the city and state, $107 million over 30 years. Even that may be optimistic -- the budget office's projections for the Jets stadium of $210 million over a similar period were based on hopeful and maybe unachievable predictions of its use as a convention space. 
 The Nets arena is not destined to be a cash cow, but the borough deserves a sports team, so long as the price is not too high. A basketball arena is more likely to get multipurpose use than a football stadium, and since the team plays several times a week for a long season rather than 10 times a year, its impact on the area's night life should be positive.
 The Atlantic Yards project deserves to keep moving forward. But the focus now needs to be on building something that is still grand but also manageable.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 27, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in The Arts on Tuesday about Frank Gehry's design for the first phase of the Grand Avenue development project in Los Angeles misstated the location of the proposed Atlantic Yards project that Mr. Gehry is designing in Brooklyn. (The error also appeared in sports articles on Feb. 9 and April 11, in the City section on Jan. 15 and in several articles in 2003, 2004 and 2005.) It is on rail yards and other land in Prospect Heights and on a block in Park Slope; it is not in Downtown Brooklyn, although it is near that neighborhood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); BASKETBALL (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



542 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Word for Word Church v. State U.; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Here's the Problem With Emily Dickinson 

BYLINE: By THOMAS VINCIGUERRA. 
Thomas Vinciguerra is deputy editor of The Week.

 BODY:
INTELLIGENT design isn't the only flashpoint in the battle over religion in the nation's classrooms. On Dec. 12, the Federal District Court in Los Angeles will hear a lawsuit filed by a consortium of Christian high schools against the University of California system for refusing to credit some of their courses when their students apply for admission.
 Among those courses are ''Christianity's Influence in American History'' and ''Christianity and American Literature,'' both of which draw on textbooks published by Bob Jones University of Greenville, S.C., which describes itself as having stood for ''the absolute authority of the Bible since 1927.''
The plaintiffs, the Association of Christian Schools International, which represents more than 800 schools in California, and the Calvary Chapel Christian School of Murrieta, Calif., contend that their students are being discriminated against because of their religious beliefs. The university system counters that it has the right to set its own standards. Here are excerpts from the disputed texts. THOMAS VINCIGUERRA 
 ''United States History for Christian Schools,'' written by Timothy Keesee and Mark Sidwell (Bob Jones University, 2001), says this about Thomas Jefferson.
 American believers can appreciate Jefferson's rich contribution to the development of their nation, but they must beware of his view of Christ as a good teacher but not the incarnate son of God. As the Apostle John said, ''Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son'' (I John 2:22).
 Slavery, which most historians look at politically or economically, is seen as ''an excellent example of the far-reaching consequences of sin.''
 The sin in this case was greed -- greed on the part of African tribal leaders, on the part of slave traders and on the part of slave owners, all of whom allowed their love for profit to outweigh their love for their fellow man. The consequences of such greed and racism extended across society and far into the future. It resulted in untold suffering--most obviously for the black race but for the white race as well. The Lord has never exaggerated in warning us of sin's devastating consequences -- for us and for our descendants (Exodus 34:7).
 The book also criticizes the progressive movement championed by Theodore Roosevelt, and the Progressives themselves.
 On the whole, they believed that man is basically good and that human nature might be improved. Such a belief, of course, ignored the biblical teaching that man is sinful by nature (Ephesians 2:1-3). Progressives therefore also ignored the fact that the fallible men who built the corrupt institutions that they attacked were the same in nature as those who filled the political offices and staffed the regulatory agencies that were supposed to control the corruption.
 On the other hand, the ''devout Methodist'' H. J. Heinz is praised for his fine products and humane treatment of workers, which set him apart from the typical 19th-century robber baron.
 Heinz illustrates the Christian's response to the challenge of business management: ''And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not unto men; knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance; for ye serve the Lord Christ'' (Colossians 3:23-24).
 ''Elements of Literature for Christian Schools,'' by Ronald Horton, Donalynn Hess and Steven Skeggs (Bob Jones University, 2001), faults Mark Twain for calling God ''an irascible, vindictive, fierce and ever fickle and changeful master.''
 Twain's outlook was both self-centered and ultimately hopeless. Denying that he was created in the image of God, Twain was able to rid himself of feeling any responsibility to his Creator. At the same time, however, he defiantly cut himself off from God's love. Twain's skepticism was clearly not the honest questioning of a seeker of truth but the deliberate defiance of a confessed rebel.
 Emily Dickinson, too, is criticized for her lack of faith.
 Dickinson's year at Mount Holyoke Female Seminary further shaped her ''religious'' views. During her stay at the school, she learned of Christ but wrote of her inability to make a decision for Him. She could not settle ''the one thing needful.'' A thorough study of Dickinson's works indicates that she never did make that needful decision. Several of her poems show a presumptuous attitude concerning her eternal destiny and a veiled disrespect for authority in general. Throughout her life she viewed salvation as a gamble, not a certainty. Although she did view the Bible as a source of poetic inspiration, she never accepted it as an inerrant guide to life.
 By contrast, the piety of Christina Rossetti, the 19th-century British poet, gets high marks.
 The loneliness she faced is often reflected in her poems. But stronger than her loneliness was her total confidence in and submission to her Lord and Savior. Rossetti filled her mind and heart with Scripture. She gained from it a unique appreciation of the sustaining and sacrificial love of God. Her poetry and uplifting devotional literature are the natural overflow of her complete dependence on God.
 ''Physics for Christian Schools,'' by R. Terrance Egolf and Linda Shumate (Bob Jones University, 2004), addresses the question, ''What is Christian about physics?''
 Some people have developed the idea that higher mathematics and science have little to do with the Bible or Christian life. They think that because physics deals with scientific facts, or because it is not pervaded with evolutionary ideas, there is no need to study it from a Christian perspective. This kind of thinking ignores a number of important facts to the Christian: First, all secular science is pervaded by mechanistic, naturalistic and evolutionistic philosophy. Learning that the laws of mechanics as they pertain to a baseball in flight are just the natural consequences of the way matter came together denies the wisdom and power of our Creator God. Second, physics as taught in the schools of the world contradicts the processes that shaped the world we see today. Trying to believe both secular physics and the Bible leaves you in a state of confusion that will weaken your faith in God's Word.
 Even the abstract laws of energy and matter, the authors write, reflect the hand of God.
 You are about to embark on an adventure. The study of physics reveals the wonderful orderliness of God's creation -- so orderly that it can be comprehended in terms of relatively simple principles (mathematical formulas). Physics is important because through it mankind learns how creation actually works. It satisfies our God-given curiosity about nature. Seeing that God does ''great things and unsearchable; marvelous things without number'' (Job 5:9), men have dedicated their lives to unraveling the rich mysteries of creation.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Whose Standards? -- A group of Christian schools wants colleges to credit Bible-centered courses. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HISTORY (89%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); CHURCH & STATE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); LITERATURE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); RACE & RACISM (63%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (55%) Colleges and Universities; Church-State Relations; Suits and Litigation; Christians and Christianity; Education and Schools; Textbooks; Colleges and Universities; Private and Sectarian Schools

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); ASSOCIATION OF CHRISTIAN SCHOOLS INTERNATIONAL (83%) University of California; Bob Jones University; Association of Christian Schools International

PERSON: Thomas Vinciguerra

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (95%) California

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



543 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; LONG ISLAND JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Preserving the Remaining Farms, at Least on Film 

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER. 
E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
FARMING isn't merely a job for the farm families on Long Island. It is a rich heritage, a way of life that, in the shadow of strip malls, asphalt roads and housing tracts, is becoming harder and harder to pass on to the next generation.
 In 1950, there were almost 3,000 farms on the Island. Now, there are 716, all but a handful of them in Suffolk County. With so many fields of potatoes, cabbage and tomatoes bulldozed for development, it may be difficult for today's suburbanites to imagine the Island's 300-year-old rural traditions or a time when the Island was mostly farmland.
 Enter Ron Rudaitis, 35, an Emmy-winning documentary producer from Huntington with a passion for agriculture and farmland preservation. He has spent much of the past five years weaving interviews, contemporary footage and historical photographs into an hourlong documentary film. ''Farming the Future: Farm Life of Long Island'' will have its premiere on Channel 21 on Thursday at 10 p.m. 
 ''The show is really about farming in suburbia,'' said Mr. Rudaitis. 
 He credited his wife, Sarah Lansdale, with the suggestion that they look at what was happening beyond their Huntington backyard, and produce a chronicle of farming on the Island.
 Ms. Lansdale, 31, is the executive director of Sustainable Long Island, a nonprofit advocacy group for community revitalization whose interests include, not surprisingly, farmland preservation and helping to protect open space. 
 Their mission was threefold: to impart an appreciation of the rich history of farming on the Island, provide a cultural sense of what it is like to live in a farm family and portray the economic and other challenges of farming in suburbia. Mr. Rudaitis let the farmers tell their own stories. 
 One of them, Bill Halsey, an owner of the Green Thumb Organic Farm, raises 150 types of vegetables and flowers on the 100-acre farm in Water Mill that has been in his family since 1700. 
 ''Farming seems to be romanticized,'' Mr. Halsey, a 12th-generation farmer, says in the film's opening montage. ''If farming was that easy and beautiful lifestyle, there would be a lot more farmers around now.'' 
 Instead, problems are mounting and the infrastructure is weakening. Tractor dealers, for instance, have all but disappeared. Land prices are climbing, which is not necessarily a blessing. Crop prices continue to drop. And produce like melons and strawberries, imported from South and Central America, Australia and New Zealand, is available at supermarkets no matter the season. 
 ''Local strawberries tend to lose their significance, because you can buy strawberries year round,'' Mr. Halsey said. 
 John L. Halsey, an owner of the Milk Pail Farm and Orchard in Water Mill, who is a distant relative of Bill Halsey, said that as the number of farmers dwindles, people no longer understand the need for agriculture. He repeated an often-heard joke: ''Why do we need farmers? The supermarkets are full.''
 At a premiere of the documentary on Nov. 3 at Southampton College, Joseph M. Gergela III, the executive director of the Long Island Farm Bureau, called the remaining farmers ''survivors.'' He lauded the film. 
 ''Agriculture is very important to Long Island's economy, the quality of life and to the people that obviously are in the industry,'' Mr. Gergela said. In Suffolk County, agriculture is a $200-million-plus industry that employs about 8,000 people and provides the backdrop for the tourism industry, which touts the Island's wineries and farm stands. 
 Suburbanites who build McMansions next to fields of spinach and string beans like the vistas that farms provide, but they do not understand that farms create odors, noise and dust. 
 ''People have nuisance complaints,'' Mr. Gergela said. '' 'Why do farmers have to spray on weekends when I am trying to sleep at 5 o'clock in the morning?' '' 
 He said he hoped the film would help people understand that farmers need to be cut some slack. 
 Lawrence Foglia operates Fox Hollow Farms, an 11-acre perennials farm in South Huntington that his family has owned since 1963. 
 To survive, Mr. Foglia plans to phase out his container-plant business and concentrate on the profitable aspects of his enterprise, selling cut hostas leaves to wholesale florists in New York City and doing consulting work.
 ''I can't afford to buy out the beneficiaries at Huntington acreage prices and do a flower business,'' he said of the land's co-owners. 
 One problem for farmers is that land on the Island is so valuable. ''It's proximity to New York City, the playland aspect of the Hamptons,'' said Mr. Foglia, who appears in the film. ''It's really a battle between pressure to develop, make a profit, and the value of open space. 
 At the screening, John v. H. Halsey, the president of the Peconic Land Trust, who is a distant relative of the other Halseys, said that more than 8,000 acres of working farms had been conserved since 1983. Despite the suburban sprawl that threatens the Island's remaining farms, Suffolk's agricultural activity produces more income than that of any other county in the state.
 Liz Grossmann Rung, 42, a fourth-generation farmer, lives on a residential block in Lynbrook but still tends her family's five-and-a-half-acre farm in Malverne. Surrounded by two main roads, the Long Island Rail Road and a Long Island Power Authority substation, the farm has become an urban outpost.
 ''We are one of the holdouts of what used to be in that area,'' Ms. Grossmann Rung said at the screening. ''Years and years ago, there were plenty of farms, but now we are the last one remaining on the South Shore.'' 
 In the film, she expressed her determination to carry on. 
 ''We are probably approached three or four times a year with offers to sell, none of which we have taken, obviously,'' she said. ''When you are a farmer, it's your life.'' 
 Connie Farr, an owner of The Farrm, in Calverton, issued a warning: once farms are covered over with condos and tract houses, the land will not be used for farming again.
 ''I haven't heard of too many houses being bulldozed for farms lately,'' Ms. Farr says in the documentary. ''It's really important that people know what they've got and try to keep it.'' 
 Mr. Rudaitis is heeding her words. The film is meant to enlighten audiences, not paint a scrapbook portrait of a bygone era. ''These are issues that we face on Long Island but that other areas in the country are facing,'' Mr. Rudaitis said, calling the Island a leading indicator of where suburbia in America is headed. 
 ''The challenge for us as suburbanites,'' he said, ''is how can we support the efforts and support how the farmers and the farm families have to adapt to changing times?''

Call Her Maestro
 Running a large state university involves a lot of conducting, but usually not of an orchestra. 
 On the stage at the Staller Center the other evening, though, was Shirley Strum Kenny, the president of Stony Brook University. As the drums rolled, Dr. Kenny waved her conductor's baton and the university's 65-piece wind ensemble struck up a rendition of John Philip Sousa's ''Washington Post March.'' 
 ''I can't confess to having much of a musical background other than the usual piano lessons,'' Dr. Kenny said before the concert, admitting that she was way out of her element. She played piano from the age of 10 until she was 15 or 16 and entered a few competitions. 
 ''I played well for a kid, but I realized it was because I memorize quickly, not because I had a great musical talent,'' Dr. Kenny said. 
 But she does have prowess with a baton. Dr. Kenny was a twirler in her undergraduate days at the University of Texas. 
 ''I marched with the band,'' she said. ''I can twirl the baton and be much less nervous.'' She also excels at tossing a baton into the air and catching it, she said. 
 For the concert, Dr. Kenny just wanted ''to hold it and get through the piece.'' 
 She drew parallels between conducting an orchestra and running a university. Both involve ''getting people to work together to accept your vision of what the orchestration should sound like and of making that happen, and that whole business of working with a group of people all working for the same end, all dependent upon one another,'' she said.
 ''The difference is that I feel like I know what I am doing running a university,'' she added. 
 Bruce Engel, the conductor of the wind ensemble, said he invited Dr. Kenny to be a guest conductor on a lark. He gave her a quick lesson during a rehearsal. 
 ''Rule No. 1 when I teach my graduate course in conducting, when the music stops, stop waving your arms around,'' Mr. Engel told her. 
 She did. 
 Dr. Kenny said she hoped to enlist the members of the wind ensemble in a marching band. 
 Perhaps she could lead it.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence Foglia, a farmer, appears in a documentary about vanishing farms made by Ron Rudaitis, at left. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FAMILY (89%); SUBURBS (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%) Agriculture; Motion Pictures ; Colleges and Universities; Music; Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: Sustainable Long Island (Orgn); State University of New York at Stony Brook 

PERSON: Marcelle S Fischler; ron rudaitis; Sarah Lansdale; Shirley Strum Kenny

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (85%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



544 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: Research Labs Experiencing Budget Woes

BYLINE: By NATALIE CANAVOR

 BODY:
MONEY is tight, say Long Island's premier research facilities, Brookhaven National Laboratory and the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, and it is about to get tighter. 
 Both labs depend on federal support for their research, and with the government paying for the war in Iraq, antiterrorism initiatives and hurricane recovery, basic science is losing ground.
This is bad news for Long Island, whose economic future is widely linked to building a strong biomedical and scientific research base. 
 At Brookhaven, where the focus is fundamental physics research, the federal budget announced two weeks ago dictates that the lab's flagship facility -- the Relativistic High Intensity Collider -- be shut down for all or most of the year, instead of operating for about six months. The lab's 2006 budget is $20 million below last year's $465 million; $13 million of the cut is from the budget for the collider. 
 ''All the national labs were affected, but nuclear physics budgets were cut the most, about 8 percent,'' said Praveen Chaudhari, the lab director. ''Why? It makes no sense to me. It took a billion dollars and 18 years to build this facility and it's in discovery mode: every time we run, discoveries are made. We expected major new ones this year.'' 
 Cold Spring Harbor, a private not-for-profit research institution with concentrations in cancer and neuroscience, received nearly two-thirds of its $77 million in research money from the government in 2004, most of it in project grants from the National Institutes of Health. Now the health institutes' next budget is up in the air because the House of Representatives rejected a compromise with the Senate on Nov. 17. 
 It is unclear when the budget will be resolved, but the possibilities for the health institutes are bleak. The American Association for Advancement of Science, a nonprofit group, predicts that the National Institutes of Health will be financed at close to President Bush's request and the House version of $28.7 billion -- an increase of less than 1 percent.
 Bruce Stillman, the Cold Spring Harbor president, said he hoped that the Senate's proposed increase of 3.7 percent would be revived, but added that even that amount would result in stalled projects and fewer successful grant applications. 
 ''At a time of extraordinary opportunity in medical research, particularly cancer, where we have the ability to dig down and understand it, it is very disappointing to face a reduced level in funding,'' Dr. Stillman said. ''We're limited not by talent, technology and ideas, but solely by money to get the job done.'' 
 Elected officials are fighting to improve the financing for both labs. The state's two senators and Congressman Tim Bishop are pressing on Brookhaven's behalf for a meeting with Energy Department officials; 80 percent of Brookhaven's money comes from the Energy Department.
 ''The cuts are baffling,'' Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said in a telephone interview, ''a terrible setback to America's scientific research agenda.'' 
 The budget for Brookhaven is already set, so the effort is to find money elsewhere in the federal budget and determine the Energy Department's ability to redirect it.
 ''We'll push them hard,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''We're not going to quit until we get the funding.''
 She said that the Senate voted to restore a lot of the cut, and that ''I'm hopeful the House will go along with that but don't know if it will.'' 
 Brookhaven is faced with tough decisions. Most of the $131 million budget in 2004 for the Relativistic High Intensity Collider, or RHIC (pronounced Rick), went to maintain the complex equipment, Dr. Chaudhari said, and the loss of $13 million for the collider leaves very little money for its operation.
 Add in the higher cost of energy and the two to three weeks it takes to prepare the collider for operation, and the running time will be down to a few weeks. 
 ''That may not be worthwhile, so we may defer running it till '07, when we hope the money will be restored,'' Dr. Chaudhari said.
 Layoffs are inevitable, he said, although how many is uncertain. He said the lab would defer some expenses, try to shift money around ''and not cut so deep it will affect running RHIC next year.''
 ''The people are hard to get back later,'' Dr. Chaudhari said. ''That is the unfortunate part.''
 The collider's main purpose is to recreate conditions of Earth that are postulated to have existed immediately after the Big Bang, and thus answer some of the most basic science questions about the nature of matter. It is currently the only collider of its type in the world. 
 ''These are RHIC's vintage years,'' said Prof. Stewart Smith, the chief research officer at Princeton University. ''It's producing really first-rate science and on the threshold of truly major discoveries.''
 More than 1,000 scientists participate in collider experiments, as well as graduate and postdoctoral students; all are finding their plans disrupted, said Samuel Aronson, the associate laboratory director for high energy and nuclear physics.
 ''It means a lot of data not taken and a year's delay minimum,'' he said. ''It's a big setback affecting international collaborations and agreements.''
 Terminating the commitments is a big worry, said Steve Vigdor, a physics professor at Indiana University and a collaborator on a major collider experiment, called STAR. About 500 collaborators were to be involved this year in measurements that relate to understanding where the magnetism of a proton comes from. 
 ''Much of the equipment was funded by a Japanese research institute,'' Dr. Vigdor said. But when ''the government makes these sudden decisions that delay the payoff, the message to international partners is extremely negative.''
 Hollis Cline, a neuroscientist who is the director of research at Cold Spring Harbor, said that some neuroscience projects were significantly slowed because, though they were deemed worth financing, no funds were available.
 ''These are the heartbreaking cases, because the science should be done,'' she said. 
 Stalled programs include research for Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia, she said. 
 ''It's right at the time when scientists feel they can reap the benefits of past N.I.H. investments,'' Dr. Cline said, referring to the National Institutes of Health. ''There's been over 10 years of wonderful progress in basic science. Now the big issue is how to take this and directly translate it into impact on human health. But we can't make those final steps.''
 Dr. Stillman, the lab director at Cold Spring Harbor, said the financing situation had broad impact. 
 ''There is relatively little money to pursue the most interesting results,'' he said, ''the things the lab community feels are important. Right now we should be exploiting human genome mapping as fast as we can.'' 
 Lab scientists have made breakthroughs in DNA-based diagnosis, for example, which enables treatment to be customized. But the lack of money hinders scientists in applying the knowledge gained from research about breast cancer to the study of prostate cancer and other forms of the disease. 
 Dr. Stillman said science had become more expensive because it required larger teams to obtain and analyze the huge amounts of information. 
 Government grants also are usually restricted to specific projects, so it is difficult to pool resources or jump on a new direction or technology, he said.
 ''It's hard to get funds for the unproven when grants are so competitive,'' Dr. Stillman said. ''The peer review system tends to be conservative and fund incremental science, which already has data.''
 Dr. Stillman said that financing from private individuals and foundations could help address the problem, and that the lab had drawn an unusually high proportion of such support -- almost $29 million last year.
 But he dreams of an unrestricted extra $3 million to $4 million a year.
 ''What a difference we could make with that,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Scott Lowe, the deputy director of Cold Spring Harbor's cancer center. A lack of money hinders scientists in their research of the disease. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); PHYSICS (91%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); TEST LABORATORIES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); BIOMEDICINE (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (70%); HURRICANES (57%); COUNTERTERRORISM (57%) Physics; Medicine and Health; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider; Physics

COMPANY: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (91%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKHAVEN NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%) Brookhaven National Laboratory; Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory; National Institutes of Health

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); TIMOTHY H BISHOP (50%) Natalie Canavor; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



545 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Act Locally. Fail Globally.

 BODY:
Taken in isolation, the responses to Long Island's Latino situation reported last week seemed perfectly reasonable. 
 In Farmingville, for instance, the management of the 7-Eleven at North Ocean Avenue and Horseblock Road grew weary of always having knots of unemployed men hanging around the parking lot. It called the police to shoo them away, or at least to the sidewalk. A convenience store does not want to be the de facto day-laborer hiring hall for all of Suffolk County, or an open-air auditorium for people using picket signs and car horns to debate the nation's immigration policies. It wants to sell Slurpees. 
In tiny, tidy East Hampton Village, police began taking down the license-plate numbers of vehicles driven by contractors who may or may not have been illegally hiring undocumented immigrants. The crackdown was centered on the train station, which had become an unsightly magnet for loitering laborers -- as many as 100 men a day in the summer, said the village administrator, Larry Cantwell. 
 The village has no authority to enforce federal immigration laws, of course, but there is nothing that says it can't send license-plate numbers of possible lawbreakers to the state and federal authorities. The tactic worked, and the trucks and workers have taken their business elsewhere, like players in a floating crap game.
 No one can seriously fault efforts by local officials and property owners to maintain order in public spaces, if such things are done peacefully and evenhandedly. But no one should confuse what has happened in Farmingville and East Hampton with a solution to the problems posed by undocumented immigrants in the suburbs.
 While those men have gone to ground, this country's response to the outsiders among us remains an unresolved mess. There is a long chain of responsibility here, one that includes not only politicians and policy makers at all levels of government, but employers and homeowners, too. And all too often, it is the weakest links -- the workers themselves -- who get hurt the most when someone decides to challenge the schizoid status quo.
 Immigration is a complex problem requiring a comprehensive solution -- starting in Washington. Such a solution would not have to be needlessly hardline or softheaded. It would entail efforts to make our borders more secure while also finding a way to normalize the status of illegal immigrants who have risked their lives to take a vital place on the lowest rungs of our economy. There has been polarizing and paralyzing debate over various bills, but frustratingly little progress so far. 
 As long as the President and Congress fail to come up with a global response, people acting locally -- from the thoughtful Mr. Cantwell and the beleaguered owner of the Farmingville 7-Eleven to the nutty vigilantes along the Mexico border -- will be taking matters into their own hands. They will be fighting a disease by attacking its symptoms, one symptom at a time. The results may be satisfactory in some places in the short run. But they are nothing close to a cure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); CONVENIENCE STORES (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); REFUGEES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); TRAINS (68%); SUBURBS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Editorials; Hispanic-Americans

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%) Farmingville (NY); East Hampton (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



546 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Lifting the Veil on Pioneers of Public Art

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

DATELINE: SARATOGA SPRINGS 

 BODY:
ON one level, the exhibition ''America Starts Here: Kate Ericson and Mel Ziegler'' at the Frances Young Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery at Skidmore College does a valuable historical service: It gathers and documents a substantial body of overlooked, socially oriented conceptual art by a then husband-and-wife team who collaborated on gallery and public installations until Ms. Ericson's death in 1995.
 Many of the artists' stronger installations were site-specific public art projects, set up outside major art centers and dismantled or destroyed at the completion of the exhibition. In addition, the two were based in rural Pennsylvania and not part of the mainstream gallery circuit. The present touring retrospective, organized by Ian Berry and Bill Arning, seeks to remove the artists from this obscurity. 
Unintentionally, retrospective exhibitions often reveal weaknesses as well as strengths. This handsome show is no exception. The strengths are obvious: The 20-odd installations and several monitors of video documentation suggest that the artist team were among the first to engage in meaningful community-based art, and to adopt an environmentally friendly approach to public art projects. They were, in their own way, pioneers. 
 But the show also throws up troubling questions -- most pressingly, about the historical fate of the work of a generation of postconceptual artists with social and political intentions. Much of this art was well meaning, even admirably intended. Artists, for instance, would collaborate directly with the people who came into contact with the work. Yet it was often fuzzily conceived.
 Then there are the shifting expectations of public art. Throughout the 1970's and 80's, artists sought to develop works that would stimulate engagement, participation or dialogue with the public. But much of what followed was annoyingly preachy, didactic and self-righteous, often only pretending to effect major social or political change. These days we tend to look at such projects with a weary skepticism. 
 Mr. Ziegler's and Ms. Ericson's curriculum vitae are padded with such admirable if dubious projects. For an exhibition in Chicago, in 1992-93, the artists asked a group of residents in a low-income housing project to help them create an alternative paint chart, with each color to be named after a significant event in the history of the project, or after a piece of public housing legislation. ''Urban Renewal Lime'' is my favorite.
 Another work, for a project in Durham, N.C., in 1989, involved scribbling with a black marker the 65-page text of a downtown revitalization plan onto a cracked concrete sidewalk, then cutting up the sidewalk with a jackhammer and loading it into dump trucks that were later parked in front of the Durham Arts Council building during a national public-art conference. 
 What has any of this got to do with art, you may ask. I don't know, if you want the truth, but perhaps the main creativity of the pavement project was in the replacement of the broken old concrete footpath with a new one (after the jackhammers, the sidewalk was repoured). This kind of exchange recurs throughout the artists' conceptual projects, and probably provides the most compelling argument for their work's social relevance.
 For ''Give and Take'' (1986), for example, the artists collected broken tools from three groups that work together maintaining Central Park in Manhattan: the city maintenance crews, a corps of volunteers and the Central Park Conservancy. The pieces were coated with polyurethane and displayed in a gallery. They were sold individually, and a portion of the proceeds was returned to each of the groups to buy new tools.
 Then there are projects that practice socially conscious recycling, like ''Peaks and Valleys'' (1991). Here the artists laid 2,200 asphalt roof shingles on a gallery floor, over which they wrote by hand the name of every street in San Francisco. Later, they donated the shingles to a homeowner in need of a new roof, enabling them to place their work permanently in public. Funds for the project also paid for the reroofing.
 What a pity to have missed seeing this house, I thought, perusing the miscellany of documentation of site-specific works in the catalog. In the end it is the elegance of the artists' ideas that draws you to these projects, many of which provided a benchmark for forming a new kind of public art.

 ''America Starts Here: Kate Ericson and Mel Ziegler,'' Frances Young Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery, Skidmore College, 815 North Broadway, Saratoga Springs, through Dec. 30. Information (518) 580-8080 or skidmore.edu/tang.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Installations at the exhibition ''America Starts Here: Kate Ericson and Mel Ziegler.'' (Photographs by Art Evans)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (75%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery (Saratoga Springs, NY)

PERSON: Benjamin Genocchio; Kate (1955-95) Ericson; Mel Ziegler

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (65%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



547 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASKETBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Geography Is Destiny: Big East Pushes Boundaries

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
Look no further than the Big East Conference's weekly men's basketball honors to see how what started as a quaint little league of seven hatched at a meeting in La Guardia Airport 26 years ago has grown up, and perhaps grown outsized. The player of the week, Roy Hibbert, is from charter member Georgetown; the rookie honors went to Dominic James of newcomer Marquette.
 Throw in DePaul, Louisville, Cincinnati and South Florida, and the Big East has added a Midwest-by-Southeast flavor to become the biggest basketball conference in the nation with 16 teams. It is also the most competitive: five of its teams crowd the top 17 spots of the current Associated Press news media poll.
''We love that type of competition -- it's a good kind of pressure,'' said Louisville Coach Rick Pitino, whose Cardinals are ranked No. 6. ''When we come down to those final weeks of the season, there could be six or seven teams on the bubble for the N.C.A.A. tournament.'' 
 Not all of Pitino's coaching colleagues, however, are thrilled about that prospect. Mike Brey of Notre Dame, whose teams have gone 9-7 in the league the past two seasons and have misssed the N.C.A.A. tournament, has groused about a grueling conference schedule that has the Fighting Irish facing Louisville, No. 13 West Virginia and No. 3 Connecticut on the road.
 Syracuse's Jim Boeheim, the only coach remaining from the conference's inaugural season in 1979, is not happy that only 12 teams will qualify for the Big East tournament at Madison Square Garden. 
 ''I think everyone should have a chance to come to New York, and the opportunity to earn an N.C.A.A. bid,'' said Boeheim, referring to the automatic bid bestowed on the Big East tournament champion.
 Still, in the ever-shifting economic landscape of college athletics, every coach and athletic director understands that big-time football is the architect of this expansive, if muddled, grouping of universities. The football-playing newcomers -- Louisville, South Florida and Cincinnati -- are hoping the Big East's inclusion in the lucrative Bowl Championship Series will boost their coffers as well as stature.
 In explaining the Cardinals' jump to the Big East from Conference USA, Louisville's athletic director, Tom Jurich, pointed out that 12 of the universities were in the nation's top 33 media markets, that 7 of them -- including New York, Boston and Chicago -- were in the top 13, and that the Big East had a storied basketball history. He already had a basketball power -- the Cardinals have won two national championships -- but he was looking for a high-profile home to a rapidly rising football team, currently 7-2 and ranked No. 17 in the A.P. poll.
 ''Basketball has always carried our budget, but with the rise of our football program, we've been able to add four women's athletic programs and rebuild four other sports,'' Jurich said. ''When you have football programs on the upswing like ours and South Florida combined with the rich tradition of Pitt, Syracuse and West Virginia, you have the potential of a really strong conference. In basketball, the Big East is already the best. For us, it is a perfect fit.''
 In turn, the Big East needed to find some football heft if it was to keep its B.C.S. affiliation after the defection of premier programs like Miami, Virginia Tech and Boston College to the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
 ''We've been a hybrid and diluted since Day 1,'' said Big East Commissioner Mike Tranghese, noting that charter members Syracuse and Boston College had strong football programs. ''Having strong college football is a fact of life. This was the best opportunity for all 16 of our institutions. We could have separated two years ago, but none saw any upside in doing that.'' 
 The new Big East looks much like the original league, especially at the end of the bench, where several high-profile coaches sit. The league made famous by legendary coaches like St. John's Lou Carnesecca, Villanova's Rollie Massimino and Georgetown's John Thompson now has two recently inducted Hall of Famers in Boeheim and Connecticut Coach Jim Calhoun, a successful coach with an outsized personality in Pitino and a bevy of up and comers.
 Among them are John Thompson III, who is intent on resuscitating the program his father built; West Virginia's John Beilein, who led the Mountaineers to an N.C.A.A. regional final last year only to lose to Louisville in overtime; and Villanova's Jay Wright, whose No. 4-ranked Wildcats are picked to win the Big East, according to the preseason poll of the conference coaches (a poll conducted well before UConn won the Maui Invitational in impressive fashion).
 In the Big East's new configuration, each team plays 10 opponents once, three teams twice and two not at all. The better teams have been paired to make the 105 games broadcast on CBS and ESPN compelling matchups.
 So the coaches of the elite teams say they are prepared to absorb more losses.
 ''When you talk about the top 10 programs, Louisville would have to be included,'' Pitino said. ''But we have lacked one thing that North Carolina or Kentucky or Indiana or U.C.L.A. had, and that was a marquee league. We always played in the Missouri Valley, the Metro or Conference USA.
 ''Now we're going to have to pay the price for it with tough games night in and night out. I think it's worth it.''
 The expanded league is particularly daunting for programs that are rebuilding, like St. John's, which was 9-18 last year under the first-year coach Norm Roberts.
 ''You're going to have to win games no matter,'' Roberts said. ''But now, instead of playing UConn twice, we play them once and Louisville once.''
 Roberts has had experience in competitive leagues as an assistant in the Big Ten with Illinois and in the Big 12 at Kansas. Beyond the number and level of talent of teams in the Big East, what sets the conference apart is the varied playing styles the Red Storm will have to face.
 ''The Big Ten and Big 12 were man-to-man leagues -- it was pretty much strap it on and go after each other,'' Roberts said. ''In our conference, we got to face Syracuse's 2-3 zone and West Virginia's 1-3-1. 
 ''Louisville is going to pressure you. Georgetown is going to slow it down. The teams that make it to the N.C.A.A. tournament aren't going to see anything new that they haven't seen in our league.'' 
 Still, many Big East coaches worry that the conference may be too big and too talented for its own good. Will the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament committee be willing to go 10 deep when handing out bids?
 Twenty-six years ago, when the athletic directors from Georgetown, St. John's, Providence and Syracuse met at La Guardia and decided to form a multisport conference and invited Boston College, Connecticut and Seton Hall to join, there was no reason to ask such a question.
 ''I've heard it from our coaches that we're so big and so competitive and we're not going to get enough teams in the N.C.A.A.'s,'' Tranghese said. ''Everyone wants to put a negative connotation on it. I don't see it. I'm absolutely convinced that if we have deserving teams, they will be playing in the postseason. We've always been a conference with a lot of history and talent.
 ''Now we're a conference with tremendous depth. We're together because this is how we have evolved, and I do not think anyone will be disappointed at the end of this basketball season or next football season.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from top left, colorful coaches like Lou Carnesecca of St. John's and Rollie Massimino of Villanova helped popularize the Big East Conference, and John Thompson III of Georgetown and Rick Pitino of Louisville carry on the legacy. (Photo by Clockwise from top left, Associated Press
Bob Jordan/Associated Press
Charles Dharapak/AP
Andy Lyons/Getty Images)
 Villanova, under Coach Jay Wright, is the nation's fourth-ranked team. (Photo by Henny Ray Abrams/Associated Press)(pg. 4)Drawing: The Biggest East -- From humble beginnings, the largest and most competitive conference in college basketball has emerged. (Drawing by Bob Eckstein)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); RANKINGS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); YOUTH SPORTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (58%) Basketball

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BIG EAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (91%); VILLANOVA UNIVERSITY (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (59%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (57%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

PERSON: Joe Drape

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); MIDWEST USA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



548 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2032 words

HEADLINE: PENSION OFFICERS PUTTING BILLIONS INTO HEDGE FUNDS

BYLINE: By RIVA D. ATLAS and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Faced with growing numbers of retirees, pension plans are pouring billions into hedge funds, the secretive and lightly regulated investment partnerships that once managed money only for wealthy investors.
 The plans and other large institutions are expected to invest as much as $300 billion in hedge funds by 2008, up from just $5 billion a decade ago, according to a study by the Bank of New York and Casey, Quirk & Associates, a consulting firm. Pension funds account for roughly 40 percent of all institutional money.
This month, the investment council that oversees the New Jersey state employees pension fund said it would put some of its money into hedge funds for the first time, investing $600 million over the next several months. 
 While most pension plans have modest stakes in hedge funds, others have invested more than 20 percent of their assets. Weyerhaeuser, the paper company, has 39 percent of its pension fund's assets in hedge funds. In Congress, there has been a push for amendments that would make it easier for hedge funds to manage even more pension money, without having to comply with the federal law that governs company pensions. 
 Pension officials who have been shaken by market downturns and persistent deficits are attracted by hedge funds' promise of richer, or more consistent, returns. But the trend has caused some consultants and academics to voice cautions. They question whether hedge funds, with risks that are hard to measure, are appropriate for pension funds, whose sole purpose, by law, is to pay out predetermined benefits to retired workers. 
 Those benefits are considered so crucial that they are guaranteed: corporate pension failures are covered by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a federal agency, while pension failures by state and local governments are covered by taxpayers. Given that the benefits are paid out on a set schedule, critics wonder whether it makes sense to rely on investments whose returns are hard to predict, managed by private partnerships that disclose little about their operations and charge some of the highest fees on Wall Street. 
 ''It's very inappropriate when the company is offering a pension plan that is guaranteed by the federal government,'' said Zvi Bodie, a professor of finance and economics at Boston University who is enthusiastic about hedge funds in other contexts. 
 Hedge funds make large, sophisticated investments based on the premise that by swimming outside the currents of the markets, often betting against conventional wisdom, they can outperform other investments. Hedge funds became famous in the 1990's, when managers like Michael Steinhardt and George Soros made huge swashbuckling bets that sometimes produced returns of 30 percent or more. 
 More recently, hedge funds have made headlines when they ran into trouble: Long-Term Capital Management, a hedge fund whose principals included two Nobel Prize-winning economists, nearly collapsed in 1998; and this summer, Bayou Group, a $450 million hedge fund based in Connecticut, shut down after most of its money disappeared. Its two officers have pleaded guilty to fraud charges. Hedge funds have traditionally been only for wealthy, sophisticated investors so regulators have not monitored them as they have stocks or mutual funds, although they are starting to do so. 
 The news of splashy gains and scandals may not paint an accurate picture of a business that in many ways has become more conservative as a result of the flood of pension fund money. To attract that money, many hedge fund managers emphasize stability.
 Among pension fund managers, however, ''the whole mentality has changed,'' said Jane Buchan, chief executive of Pacific Alternative Asset Management, which manages $7.5 billion in funds that invest in hedge funds, primarily for large pension funds. ''They are saying, we need returns and we will be aggressive about getting them. They just don't want any downturns.''
 One of the first pensions to start working with hedge funds is also the nation's biggest corporate pension fund, the $90 billion General Motors fund. It started with a small test investment in 1999 and increased it to about $2 billion in 2003, said Jerry Dubrowski, a G.M. spokesman. 
 The company is using hedge funds, along with other unconventional investments, in hopes of getting something close to stock market returns without the market's volatility, Mr. Dubrowski said. To pay out the $6.5 billion G.M. owes to its retirees each year, the pension fund must produce annual returns of a little more than 7 percent. Otherwise, G.M. will have to dip into the fund's principal. At current interest rates, G.M. cannot get those returns with bond investments, and if it tries to juice returns by betting on the stock market, it will have to cope with market swings.
 ''It's really not helpful to have that up-10, down-10'' performance, Mr. Dubrowski said. ''You want a return that allows you to cover the benefits payments without attacking the capital.'' It is that kind of consistency some pension mangers are seeking. 
 ''We are looking for consistently positive returns rather than the absolute highest returns,'' said Robert Hunkeler, manager of International Paper's $6.8 billion pension plan, which has been invested in hedge funds for around five years. 
 Most pension funds have modest stakes of less than 5 percent, according to a recent J. P. Morgan survey. Verizon has 3 to 4 percent of its portfolio invested with hedge funds, and is considering adding to its investment, said William F. Heitmann, senior vice president for finance.
 Some pension fund managers say that diversifying away from stocks through a modest stake in hedge funds is reasonable, especially as hedge funds offer the promise of returns not linked to stock market performance. In 2000, for example, when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 9 percent, hedge funds rose 5 percent, according to Hedge Fund Research. 
 The New Jersey state pension fund's investment of $600 million represents less than 1 percent of its assets, but it hopes eventually to raise the figure to $3 billion as part of a plan to diversify its portfolio, said Orin Kramer, the chairman of the oversight board. 
 The New Jersey fund has been wrestling with a $30 billion shortfall, after the stock market bubble burst five years ago. ''In recent years, conventional stock investments haven't worked,'' said Mr. Kramer, who is also a hedge fund manager. He said that in general it is good to diversify no matter what the market does.
 Other pension plan managers are far more aggressive. Eli Lilly has about 20 percent in hedge funds and the Pennsylvania state employees' pension fund has 22 percent. 
 Weyerhaeuser's big position has significant benefits for the company. Accounting rules let companies factor expected pension returns into their operating income; Weyerhaeuser's hedge-fund-laden portfolio allows it to claim expected annual returns of 9.5 percent. By comparison, the 100 largest companies that sponsor pension funds predicted last year that their average long-term returns would be 8.5 percent, according to Milliman Inc., an actuarial firm. 
 For Weyerhaeuser, each 0.5 percent increase in the expected rate of return is worth an additional $21 million to the company's pretax income this year, according to S.E.C. filings. Weyerhaeuser did not respond to phone inquiries about its hedge fund investments, but said in S.E.C. filings that its actual pension investment returns more than justify its assumption of 9.5 percent. 
 Hedge fund investors place a lot of trust in the funds' managers, giving them great flexibility in how they produce returns. The managers do not need to give investors specifics about trading activities, and there areno daily updates on the value of investors' holdings as there are with mutual funds. 
 Employees of G.M., Verizon or International Paper, who are involuntary hedge-fund investors through their participation in pension plans, will not find any reference to the funds in those companies' annual reports. In their footnotes, these and other companies drop hints that a sophisticated investor might recognize as a reference to hedge funds, but they do not give the particulars. International Paper's description of its pension asset allocation, for example, breaks it down into ''equity securities,'' ''debt securities,'' ''real estate'' and ''other.'' 
 Some companies and governments, like Pennsylvania, make the argument that hedge funds are not really an asset class at all, but an ''asset management tool'' that does not have to be disclosed as part of the fund's allocation to stocks or bonds.
 That lack of disclosure has some regulators and pension specialists worried. Labor Department officials, who regulate pension funds, declined to discuss the hedge fund phenomenon, but referred to a 1996 letter the department wrote to the United States comptroller of the currency. 
 The letter said that the Labor Department still expected pension officials to exercise prudence when investing in derivatives, a form of trading in which hedge funds often engage. The letter also said pension officials were responsible for understanding and fully vetting their hedge fund investments, and measuring how they might perform -- and how they might affect the pension fund -- under a variety of conditions.
 Susan M. Mangiero, author of ''Risk Management,'' a textbook for pension officials, said she had come across pension executives who had not done that level of analysis. Some did not even know they had derivatives in their portfolios, she said.
 ''A lot of well-intentioned people don't know they don't know,'' she said.
 In Washington, despite concerns over the health of the nation's pension system, there has been little discussion of pension plans' growing use of nontraditional investments. Even as Congress has been working to shore up the pension system and strengthen the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a provision to relax the pension law for hedge funds has been proposed. 
 The provision would raise the limit on how much pension money a hedge fund can handle before it is deemed a fiduciary under the pension law, which would require it to be more prudent and careful than is required under securities law and would bar some trades entirely. The provision was added to a broad pension bill in the House shortly before the Committee on Education and the Workforce approved the legislation.
 Currently a financial institution becomes a pension fiduciary when more than 25 percent of its assets consist of pension money; the bill would raise that to 50 percent. The House bill would also change the definition of ''plan assets,'' so that only corporate pension money would be counted, not pension money from government plans or foreign plans. 
 These two changes are not in the counterpart Senate pension bill that was recently approved, but they could be added soon during efforts to reconcile the House and Senate bills. 
 Wall Street's interest in overcoming these legal barriers shows the allure of pension money, which tends to stick with an investment strategy and is far less likely to fly out the door when the markets turn bad.
 ''Pension money is the stickiest form of capital,'' Mr. Kramer of the New Jersey pension fund noted.
 But the surge of pension money is coming at a time when the returns of many hedge funds have not been as strong as in past years, raising questions about whether pensions are arriving at the party late. Hedge funds actually lost money in four of the first ten months of this year, although they still had an overall average return of 5.7 percent.
 Those returns easily beat the stock market: the S.& P. 500 index was up 1 percent in the same period. But as they continue to attract money, hedge funds may start to more closely mimic the performance of plain old stocks and bonds. 
 ''There is no such thing as a free lunch,'' said Frank Partnoy, a professor at the University of San Diego law school and a former trader at Morgan Stanley whose clients once included large pension funds. ''And even if there were, nobody is offering it to pension funds.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Orin Kramer oversees a pension fund and is a hedge fund manager. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)(pg. 37)Chart: ''Investments Increase''Pension funds and other institutions are investing more in hedge funds.Approximate pension and endowment fund investment in hedge funds1990: $1 billion1995: $52000: $152002: $302003: $502004: $100(Source by Casey, Quirk & Associates)(pg. 37)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); PAPER & PACKAGING (68%); PAPER MFG (68%); NOBEL PRIZES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Hedge Funds; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (66%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (58%) Riva D Atlas; Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



549 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: For Some, Grass Is Greener Where There Isn't Any 

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
When Christina Groza moved from an older building in Astoria, Queens, into a recently built one in College Point, the new home had a major selling point. Unlike the modest front lawn of her Astoria home, the original lawn outside the new building had been paved over with concrete.
 That suited Ms. Groza just fine. Parking is scarce in the area, and although she loves nature as much as the next person, she also likes a guaranteed spot near her front door at the end of the day.
''Anyone who says they'd rather have a lawn than concrete never tried parking a car around here,'' said Ms. Groza, 48, who cleans office buildings in Manhattan.
 ''If you're looking for a lawn, you should move to Long Island or New Jersey.'' 
 The battle against the onslaught of concrete and asphalt was lost long ago in Manhattan.
 While there are no official city figures on pave-overs, it is clear that the fight is still being waged in the other boroughs and in some suburbs, where signs of creeping urbanism threaten the leafy suburban aesthetic.
 New York City has no rules prohibiting property owners from paving over their lawns, but Tony Avella, a city councilman from Queens, hopes to change that.
 Mr. Avella says that he is trying to get city agencies to adopt regulations restricting ''pave-overs,'' and that if this is not successful, he is preparing legislation to make the practice unlawful.
 ''These pave-overs have become an eyesore and an affront to the whole notion of open space in our neighborhoods,'' said Mr. Avella, a Democrat from Bayside who is chairman of the Council's zoning committee. ''We need to preserve green space, not destroy it.''
 The grassy front lawn, once a staple of the American dream, is steadily being usurped by the pave-over. Many homeowners, opting for grayer pastures, are pouring concrete over their patches of green.
 Often the reason is practical -- to make room for additional parking, or to create a low-maintenance home without lawnmowers or landscapers.
 But the trend against turf also represents an aesthetic shift, a decision that grass has lost its class, and that a tastefully paved yard, front and back, is much more elegant.
 ''Not everyone wants that beautiful green front yard anymore,'' said Martha Lucia Marin, a sales agent with listings mostly in northern Queens.
 ''A lot of people are saying the house looks more elegant with nice brickwork instead of grass. It's also an economical decision. You can park in front of your door, and you don't have to take care of a lawn. It saves work and makes for a low-maintenance home.''
 But Mr. Avella called pave-overs a blight on the area he represents, much of which has tree-lined streets and single-family homes with lawns.
 Many times, he said, lawns for single-family homes are paved over because the house has been illegally converted to accommodate additional tenants.
 Also, he said, the paved space contributes to flooding, diverting rainfall onto a neighbor's property or directly into the city's storm drain system.
 Mr. Avella said he was trying to coordinate discussions among several city agencies, including the Departments of Environmental Protection, Buildings and Transportation, which all have some jurisdiction in the matter.
 The pave-over issue, he said, strikes at the heart of the current state of the boroughs and the suburbs, said Mr. Avella, who has been a staunch opponent of overdevelopment, like developers' conversions of small homes into large, gaudy dwellings on small plots.
 New York City has no regulations against the paving over of lawns, said Ilyse Fink, a spokeswoman for the Buildings Department.
 Paving over for the sake of parking, however, can run afoul of restrictions on the number of cars that may be parked on a residential property, which is determined by the area of the plot and the local zoning, she said.
 Mr. Avella said he would like to explore solutions adopted by other municipalities across the country, including setting percentage limits on how much driveways can be expanded and how much lawns can be covered.
 Paving over has become so commonplace that it is spurring differences between neighbors and debates within households about whether to dispense with the lawn.
 Jack Casaro, 31, a technology systems executive, recently completed a major reconstruction, turning a modest house on a 40-by-100-foot plot in Whitestone into a brick fortress of a domicile. Now he is spending $25,000 to pave the property in brick.
 Mr. Casaro stopped short of paving the entire front yard, as his next-door neighbor has done. He is keeping two small patches of grass out front.
 ''I want to keep a little grass, but a full lawn is too much maintenance,'' he said. ''The grass absorbs the rain, and when the water table gets full, it seeps into the basement. Now, with the brick pitched the right way, the rain runs right off.''
 His mother, Angela Casaro, stepped outside to voice her preference for brick over grass.
 ''Lawns have ticks and disease and worms and stuff,'' she said. ''This way, it's safe and sterile. It's a cleaner area for the children to play. I love nature and I love grass, but I don't want my family exposed to disease.''
 ''Either way,'' Mr. Casaro said, ''I don't think the city should be able to tell you what to do with your own property.''
 Peter Oppedisano, 40, a home builder with a huge waterfront home in the Malba section of Queens, built a huge house that stands out from the mostly older, stately homes in the expensive neighborhood. It has a large veranda overlooking the water, and a pool presided over by four large lion statues. But it has no lawn.
 Mr. Oppedisano opted to cover his entire half-acre plot with ornate paving stone, to accommodate his antique car collection and to provide a ''cleaner and nicer place for the kids to play.''
 Dennis Gonzalez, 31, a computer systems manager, said that when he and his wife, Jennifer, moved into their home on 14th Avenue in College Point, they saw that neighbors on either side had paved over front lawns and they agonized over whether to do the same with their tiny patch of grass.
 ''We had a family conference about whether to pave it or leave it as a lawn,'' he said. ''We decided that every home should have a little grass. We have to pay a landscaper every week, but to us, it's worth it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Oppedisano at his home in Malba, Queens. Like many homeowners with much smaller yards, including the one at left in College Point, he paved his half-acre plot. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 41)
 Dennis Gonzalez of College Point, Queens, called a family meeting before deciding to keep his lawn. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ZONING (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); SUBURBS (71%) 

PERSON: Corey Kilgannon; Tony (Councilman) Avila

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



550 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Working With Art (and People, Too) 

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AFTER more than a year of sitting in front of her home computer 16 hours a day, ''including days spent in my pajamas not leaving the house,'' Jessica Furst says, she decided that the life of a freelance graphic designer was not for her.
 Not that she grew tired of the work. It's just that her routine lacked contact with people other than on the phone, a big change from earlier jobs she held at a magazine and a public relations firm. 
But rather than trying to return to such a job, Ms. Furst, now 31, decided on another course: she would open a store. ''I have a lot of creative friends who make things,'' she said recently of the artists and craftspeople she knows. She was aware that because they were starting out or little known, they needed help in selling their work -- which meant that others like them also did.
 So in February 2004, Ms. Furst opened artez'n, at 444 Atlantic Avenue in the Boerum Hill section of Brooklyn. 
 About 85 percent of the paintings, handcrafted jewelry, ceramics and designer glassware, T-shirts and tote bags that artez'n sells are produced by Brooklyn residents, Ms. Furst said.
 She carries her inventory on a consignment basis, splitting the proceeds with the artist, usually 50-50, when an item is sold. Selling fine art on consignment is common. Selling handcrafted jewelry and other craftwork on consignment is also not unusual when the artist is little known and the retailer, unsure of the work's appeal, wants to be able to return it without a loss if it does not sell, rather than paying for it wholesale and taking a loss.
 ''I've returned stuff to a couple of artists,'' but that has been an exception, said Ms. Furst, who these days carries the works of 40 to 50 artists and craftspeople. 
 While selling on consignment cuts risks and inventory costs for merchants, it also presents them with potential pitfalls, according to Pamela J. Brown, an associate professor in Texas A & M University's extension service in Lubbock and an expert on entrepreneurship and handcraft marketing. 
 ''If you're selling only on consignment, you have a very unpredictable cash flow because you are working with people whose work is relatively unknown,'' Professor Brown said. ''So the marketing has to be built not only on promoting the retailer, but the artisan, too.'' Ms. Furst, who has a bachelor's degree in communications design from Pratt Institute, consulted two groups specializing in small-business advice before opening her store: the Small Business Development Center at Pace University and Score, an organization of volunteers that works with the federal Small Business Administration to advise owners and aspiring owners of small businesses.
 She learned how to write a business plan and put together revenue and cost projections for the first three years of operation. With the plans and projections, she was able to get an S.B.A.-guaranteed bank loan for $115,000. 
 Her biggest starting cost was $70,000 to construct the store, which involved transforming a mildewed 40-by-20-foot former restaurant into an airy, white-walled setting for her colorful and eclectic merchandise. 
 Besides the earrings, necklaces and rings, the displays of T-shirts and glassware-- sometimes with a Brooklyn theme, like a ''Coney Island mermaid'' shirt or a glass illustrated with the Brooklyn Bridge -- there are whimsical paintings of toothy monsters by Paula Goodpaster and paintings of women on transparent stretched vinyl by an artist who identifies herself simply as Aimee.
 Ms. Furst still does graphic design work for a major client from her freelance days, and is integrating her design business with the store's operations by offering the design of wedding invitations, holiday cards and other items as an artez'n service.
 Her revenue in recent months has varied from $8,000 to $12,000 a month, she said, with about half from sales of the store's merchandise and half from her design work. The costs of running the store, including rent, loan repayments and wages for two part-time employees, run about $7,000 to $8,000 a month, she said.
 But she is optimistic. ''It's still tight,'' she said, ''but we're getting there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ART AND COMMERCE -- Jessica Furst at her shop, called artez'n, in the Boerum Hill section of Brooklyn where she sells art on consignment, splitting the proceeds with the artists (Photo by Nicholas Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (88%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PAINTING (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%) Retail Stores and Trade; artez'n (NYC Store)

PERSON: Jessica Furst

GEOGRAPHIC: LUBBOCK, TX, USA (52%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



551 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2419 words

HEADLINE: Right Side of the Tracks

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
ON a blustery fall day, Donald Trump stood in a parking lot just blocks from the waterfront, his famous comb-over fluttering in the breeze that blows off New York Harbor. The real estate developer, best-selling author and reality-TV star had ventured across the Hudson River to announce that this mighty railroad town of yesteryear was again world-class: Jersey City would be the latest location for buildings bearing his name. 
 When completed in three years, developers say Trump Plaza Jersey City will boast a pair of condominium towers totaling 862 units priced at $290,000 to $906,000 -- a prodigious project even for the state's busiest skyline. At 572 feet and 524 feet, according to documents submitted to the city, the buildings will be the tallest residential structures in New Jersey.
 ''This is a high-quality luxury project, worthy of the Trump name,'' Mr. Trump said in a statement announcing the $415 million project in September, ''rising in one of the most exciting places in the country today -- Jersey City.'' 
 Yet Mr. Trump's declaration of the project's -- and the city's -- worthiness was hardly news to anyone paying attention to waterfront development in recent decades in the state's second-largest city. And Mr. Trump's participation, in which he is lending his name and expertise, carries little risk in a residential market that has been booming for 20 years.
 That Jersey City could have come so far so fast is largely because the waterfront of this once-bustling blue-collar city had become an utter wasteland of abandoned rail yards and rotting piers. With almost no one living or working within blocks of the water in the 1970's and early 80's, city officials and private investors were able to implement wholesale redevelopment plans with few of the legal and political snags that often accompany the displacement of residents and businesses. Indeed, it is precisely those kinds of hurdles that have stalled major redevelopment projects in Newark. 
 ''You didn't have to dislocate people,'' said Tom Leane, Jersey City's planning director in the 1980's. ''Particularly in urban areas, your big fights are relocation of residents -- voters. And if I remember correctly, there was no one in Hudson Exchange, and between Newport and Hudson Exchange there were 17 people we had to move, which is incredible for that amount.''

The Glory Days
 In the 19th and 20th centuries, Jersey City was arguably the most important rail terminus on the East Coast. Across the Hudson from Manhattan, the passenger and freight terminals, shipping piers and ferry slips that lined the waterfront cities of Jersey City, Hoboken and Weehawken linked the greatest city on earth to the rest of the greatest nation. 
 ''No transportation area in the world rivaled a seven-mile-long strip of Hudson County shoreline as the 1890's began,'' John T. Cunningham wrote in ''Railroads in New Jersey: The Formative Years.'' ''Eight national railroads converged there, following rails that from an aerial view would have resembled miles of shining steel spaghetti streaming toward scores of long piers jutting into the Hudson River. The piers, in turn, disgorged vessels of many sizes into the river, ferrying people and freight back and forth between New Jersey mainland terminals and destinations in New York City.''
 At their peak, the Pennsylvania, Erie and other railroads owned a third of the city's property, paid a third of its taxes and provided thousands of jobs and other benefits to its residents. But at the same time, the railroads cut off access to the waterfront, divided downtown neighborhoods with huge stone embankments and choked residents with coal dust and diesel fumes. 
 ''I remember how everybody used to hit the freights,'' Gerald McCann, the 56-year-old former mayor, said in a recent interview. ''The freight cars would be transporting all kinds of things by train, and the guys used to rob the trains. And I remember we always used to joke because the railroad bulls used to chase us. There was a station right off Chapel and Garfield -- it's still there, I think, built onto the side of the cliff there -- and the railroad bulls used shoot salt pellets, and we used to run through the cemetery, and you'd hear the salt pellets bounce off the headstones.''
 Gradually, the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels as well as the George Washington Bridge, along with container ports in Newark and Elizabeth, spelled the railroads' demise, culminating with the closing of the Central Railroad of New Jersey Terminal in 1967. It is preserved at what is now Liberty State Park. 
 And it is the same Mr. McCann who today is widely credited with helping to jump-start waterfront redevelopment in the early 1980's by breaking ranks with fellow Democrats to support Ronald Reagan's bid for president. a campaign that began in theatrical style at Liberty State Park. In return for Mr. McCann's support, the former mayor and others say, the Reagan administration in 1983 awarded Jersey City a $40 million federal urban development grant, then the largest ever, for infrastructure improvements to the Newport redevelopment area, in addition to $9 million for a parking garage at the former Harborside freight terminal, which was designated for redevelopment as office space.
 ''I supported him in 1980, and it's because of that connection that we got all the money,'' said Mr. McCann, whose legacy was marred by a federal bank-fraud conviction that was unrelated to his official duties but nonetheless forced him from office in 1992. ''All of that land was railroad property. They didn't have water lines going into the site. They didn't have sewer lines. They didn't have roads. Everything had to be put in.''
 Construction and the relocation of thousands of jobs along the waterfront continued throughout most of the 1990's under Mayor Bret D. Schundler, a Harvard-educated Republican who had worked in the securities industry before running for office.
 ''Jerry McCann, starting with his partnership with Ronald Reagan, got this ball rolling,'' said Jerramiah T. Healy, Jersey City's current Democratic mayor. ''I think that the business and the investment community felt very comfortable with Bret Schundler, and that was good for the city.''
 What Mr. McCann, Mr. Schundler, Mr. Healy and other recent mayors here have in common is their support for tax abatements as development tools, like the 20-year tax break that the City Council approved for Trump Plaza. But while abatements have been effective in luring developers to the waterfront -- and, less notably, to other parts of the city -- they have also been a source of controversy. As waterfront real estate has soared in value, critics insist that abatements are no longer justifiable because they deprive the school system and county government of revenue. 
 Just or unjust, abatement deals have contributed significantly to the city treasury, accounting for $73 million in revenue in the city's current $380 million budget, compared with $105 million brought in by standard property taxes. Other incentives, including a state tax rebate program and reduced sales tax on capital purchases, have also helped lure development and jobs to the waterfront, sometimes at the expense of New York.
 Plans to redevelop the waterfront date at least to 1963, with a report produced for Mayor Thomas Whelan. But Mr. Whelan was convicted of corruption in 1971 without making much progress, and it would not be until 1983 that redevelopment began in earnest. 
 That year two partners, Michael W. Sonnenfeldt and David M. Fromer, persuaded Bankers Trust to lease 400,000 square feet at Harborside, a former Pennsylvania Railroad freight terminal the men had bought in 1982 for $25 million. In 1986, the partners sold Harborside to a group represented by Jones Lang Wooten Realty Advisors for $120 million, and the waterfront's investment potential was established. 
 The same year of the Harborside sale, the Lefrak Organization of Queens began renting apartments at its 600-acre Newport development a few blocks upriver, near the spot where Henry Hudson's Half Moon first weighed anchor four centuries earlier. The following year, Melvin Simon & Associates opened the 1.2-million-square-foot Newport Center mall. 
 ''I don't think many people would have imagined things on the waterfront in Jersey City 20 years ago,'' said Dean Geibel, the president of Metro Homes of Hoboken, who met Mr. Trump on a golf course and later asked him to join the Jersey City deal.
 Referring to Trump Plaza, Mr. Geibel added: ''Specifically, with that site, I love the fact that you have the PATH train, the light-rail train and the ferry. It's the poster child for smart growth.'' 
 In the years since Harborside opened, city officials say 18 million square feet of Class A, or prime, office space has been built along the waterfront, more than in downtown Atlanta or Pittsburgh. The skyline's pinnacle is a silvery tower completed last year and occupied by 2,000 Goldman Sachs employees. Rising 781 feet above the water's edge, it is the state's tallest building. 

Top-Drawer Tenants
 Other companies have migrated to the waterfront financial district known as Wall Street West: Merrill Lynch, with more than 2,400 workers; J. P. Morgan Chase and Lehman Brothers, with more 1,500 workers each; and Morgan Stanley, with nearly 1,000. In 2003, the waterfront's building boom pushed Hudson County past Morris County as the state's leader in Class A office space, said James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, in a shift that was indicative of the growth of New Jersey's financial sector and of the decline of the telecommunications industry that had historically been situated in Morris County.
 Still, the waterfront office market appears to be cooling. At the end of June, for example, the vacancy rate for Class A space was 24.6 percent, Dean Hughes said, up from less than 10 percent in 2000. He attributed the high vacancy rate to overleasing by companies that had witnessed a sharp increase in demand for space immediately after the attack on the World Trade Center.
 Demand was so intense in 2001 and 2002, in fact, that rents for waterfront Class A space were higher than in New York City, according to Cushman & Wakefield Research. For instance, the waterfront averaged $41.25 per square foot in 2001, compared with an average of $38.30 in New York. 
 But as demand slackened, Dean Hughes said, companies that had leased large blocks of space had trouble subleasing it. By the end of September, Cushman & Wakefield reported that waterfront rents were down to $30.50 a square foot, compared with an average of $31.82 in New York.
 Still, Dean Hughes and others say the waterfront's residential market has remained relatively strong because of fundamental demographic shifts -- an aging population moving from empty suburban nests to condominiums -- that have transcended economic trends. 
 Just as striking as the waterfront's building boom has been the increase in jobs and the rising population. In 2000, there were 14,767 residents along the waterfront, according to the Jersey City Economic Development Corporation; 20 years earlier, after almost no one had been living there. 
 From 1950 to 1982, the city lost 20,733 jobs in the private sector, driving down the total number of jobs in the city to 54,057. By contrast, from 1983 to 2002, the city saw a net gain of 27,315 jobs in the private sector, to an all-time high of 81,372. 
 Most of Jersey City's job growth was in financial services, now the city's primary job engine, according to a report completed in the spring by the development corporation.
 Yet despite the growth, the city's overall population has actually fallen slightly in recent years, underscoring the disparity between the waterfront's fortunes and the city's as a whole. 
 Dean Hughes attributed the city's falling population -- to 239,079 in 2004 from 240,055 in 2000, according to census figures -- to declines in neighborhoods affected by changing immigration patterns in the aftermath of Sept. 11. For example, Jersey City has significant Arab and South Asian populations in its Journal Square neighborhood, but Mr. Hughes said that after 9/11 there was ''a slowdown or reversal of that immigrant population.'' 

The Size of the Gap
 The relative affluence of the waterfront is no secret, and that has been a source of resentment in the context of the abatement debate. But figures published by the development corporation reveal in stark terms just how wide the income, education and employment gaps are between the waterfront and nine other neighborhoods in Jersey City. 
 For example, in 2000, the median family income on the waterfront was $74,016, nearly twice the citywide median of $41,639. In addition, the unemployment rate on the waterfront, where 68.4 percent of the residents 25 and older held at least a bachelor's degree, was 3.8 percent. By contrast, unemployment in the predominantly black Bergen-Lafayette neighborhood, where 13.5 percent of residents 25 and older had college degrees and the median family income was $30,306, was 16.3 percent.
 Yet Mayor Healy says he is not overly concerned by the disparities, and insists that the waterfront's rising tide will lift all boats. And in fact, even some of the most blighted areas of Bergen-Lafayette have seen new construction.
 Still, others are concerned that the rising tide could wash away poorer residents. 
 ''When you look at it from the point of view of people who can't afford the rents, it's another story,'' said Marilyn Ruben, a professor of public affairs at John Jay College who worked on the development corporation report released last spring.
 Sharon Williams, 42, whose principal income is a $322 monthly welfare check, is worried that she may become one of those people. In the three-bedroom apartment in Bergen-Lafayette where Ms. Williams lives with four daughters and an 8-month-old grandson, the ceilings are collapsing because of a leaky roof, and the stench of mold forces her family to eat their meals on the front stoop. Yet while the apartment is worlds away from the luxurious waterfront condominiums with tax abatements, it is nonetheless subject to some of the same market forces. 
 ''If they can fix the place up, they could get every bit of $1,400 for it,'' Ms. Williams said, quickly realizing what that would mean for her family. ''I know we'd be out on the street then.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A view of the Jersey City waterfront, where redevelopment projects are changing the skyline. (Photo by The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The downtown site for Trump Plaza Jersey City, which according to plans will have the tallest residential structures in the state. (Photo by The New York Times)
 An undated photograph showing rail yards and piers on the New Jersey waterfront. (Photo by Archives of the Jersey City Free Public Library)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); FERRIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); WRITERS (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (57%); BESTSELLERS (57%) Geographic Profiles; Railroads; Ships and Shipping; Piers; Ferries; Trump Plaza (Jersey City); Area Planning and Renewal; Housing

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (91%) tom leane; Donald Trump; Steve Strunsky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Jersey City (NJ); Jersey City (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



552 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BROOKLYN UP CLOSE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Ambassador Markowitz Woos the U.N.

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
United Nations delegates, it seems, will not be nibbling Junior's cheesecake and Grimaldi's pizza after all. In a report this month on the organization's planned renovation of its East Side headquarters, Secretary General Kofi Annan proposes temporarily moving its operations to space elsewhere in Manhattan, and even to Queens. But in the 22-page report, the word ''Brooklyn'' appears not once. 
 The Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, and chamber of commerce officials courted the United Nations over the summer, meeting with staff members there to pitch Downtown Brooklyn's blend of amenities, proximity to Manhattan, and relatively cheap real estate. But the only East River crossing in the Nov. 17 report involves Long Island City, as a possible temporary site for the Dag Hammarskjold Library.
 Leaders in Brooklyn, however, after initial disappointment, are reacting with a version of the borough's traditional refrain: Wait till next year. ''We don't take no for an answer very easily -- not Brooklynites,'' Mr. Markowitz said, adding that his true hope was for the United Nations to move some offices to the borough permanently, to remain after the renovation. Nothing as glamorous as the General Assembly, of course, but administrative and support staff would be welcome.
 ''The people that we met with raised that to us, that they need additional space, and there's no economic justification for maintaining their office space necessarily in Manhattan,'' Mr. Markowitz said. 
 Or, as Kenneth Adams, the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce president, put it: ''The U.N. is not going to move to Downtown Brooklyn. But part of it could.'' 
 By way of example, Mr. Adams cited departments like communications, human resources and information systems -- and noted that some Wall Street companies already used Downtown Brooklyn for such back-office purposes. ''Not all those functions need to be in space that is in the equivalent of $75 a square foot,'' he said, adding that Brooklyn could offer rates of half that, or even lower with incentives. 
 In fact, Mr. Adams said, Brooklyn officials are working to set up a meeting early next year, laying out the benefits of decentralization and Downtown Brooklyn's proximity to the First Avenue headquarters. Marie Okabe, a spokeswoman for the United Nations, said it was too early to discuss where office space would move because the General Assembly had not yet voted on Mr. Annan's recommendations -- a decision expected by the end of the year. ''Anything is possible,'' she said, ''but right now, as far as the secretary general is concerned, the priority is approval of the master plan.'' 
 Mr. Markowitz admitted to some disappointment about the United Nations report, but added, ''If this all works out, it will be fine with us.'' JAKE MOONEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); APPROVALS (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (56%) United Nations

PERSON: K S ADAMS JR (75%) Jake Mooney; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan; Marty (Boro Pres) Markowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



553 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela's Leader Covets A Nuclear Energy Program

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER and JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BRASILIA 

 BODY:
With his country sitting on top of some of the world's largest oil and gas reserves, and with his constant talk of socialist revolution and criticism of the Bush administration, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela has acquired a certain notoriety in Washington and with some of his Latin American neighbors. 
 But he has seldom sent eyebrows so high as when he recently announced plans to start a nuclear energy program with the help of Brazil and Argentina. Coupled with his talk of a spending binge on weapons like rifles, ships and combat aircraft, and his support of Iran's right to develop a nuclear program, his moves have set off a debate about his motives.
Mr. Chavez and his government dismiss the concerns, saying the world should worry less about what is happening in Caracas than in Washington. 
 ''It cannot be that the countries that have developed nuclear energy prohibit those of the third world from developing it,'' Mr. Chavez argued recently. ''We are not the ones developing atomic bombs, it's others who do that,'' he added in an interview with a Brazilian newspaper. 
 In early November, Bernardo Alvarez, Venezuela's ambassador to Washington, said: ''It is absolutely ridiculous the idea that Venezuela would want to be a nuclear power and become a nuclear threat. Latin America is completely respectful of nonproliferation treaties, but of course that does not mean that nuclear energy cannot be pursued, just as it is in Europe and elsewhere. Venezuela says it has a right to explore these possibilities.''
 So far, the Bush administration has cautiously reacted to Mr. Chavez's ambitions. The Venezuelan president has sought to position himself as the nemesis of ''American imperialism'' and a defender of Cuba and Fidel Castro, and to criticize him publicly would only add to his popularity in Latin America.
 ''We are watchful, but not worried,'' said one American diplomatic official who spoke on condition he not be identified because of the political delicacy of the issue. ''Chavez says a lot about a lot of things,'' he added. ''Sometimes he ends up doing them, and sometimes he doesn't.''
 Mr. Chavez first broached the subject of nuclear power in May, saying that he was interested in starting negotiations with Iran so as to diversify Venezuela's energy supplies. He returned to the theme early in October but this time named Brazil and Argentina as his preferred partners. 
 He has found support for the idea. When Mr. Chavez spoke at a summit meeting in Spain in October of acquiring as many as a dozen reactors, Brazil initially reacted with enthusiasm. ''Any country that wants to share with Brazil its peaceful-use programs will be welcomed,'' Marco Aurelio Garcia, national security adviser to President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, said at the conference. 
 But after an immediate uproar here, the Brazilian Foreign Ministry began backpedaling. ''There is no accord yet, only an idea,'' said Celso Amorim, the foreign minister and Mr. Garcia's rival for control of foreign policy. ''This is a theme that needs to be examined when we receive a concrete proposal.''
 In reality, Brazil and Venezuela already have a very broad agreement, a memorandum of understanding signed over a dozen years ago, to cooperate in the nuclear field. Almost nothing has been done since then, but both countries are interested in reviving the accord as part of what a Brazilian government official called a broader ''process of approximation and integration'' that has grown since Mr. da Silva and his leftist Workers' Party took office in 2003.
 Just last year, Brazil itself tangled with the International Atomic Energy Agency over inspectors' access to a plant to produce nuclear fuel. Brazil claims to have developed a proprietary centrifuge technology for processing enriched uranium and wanted to limit inspectors' ability to certify that use of the centrifuges complied with international regulations.
 The director of Brazil's National Commission on Nuclear Energy, Odair Goncalves, declined a request for an interview on prospects for a deal with Venezuela, saying through a spokesman that his agency was ordered not to discuss the subject. But in an interview with O Estado de Sao Paulo in October, he made it clear that Brazil was not interested in selling the centrifuges to Mr. Chavez.
 Any nuclear cooperation program with Venezuela ''would not signify the transfer of technology,'' he said. ''Transferring uranium enrichment technology is unthinkable.''
 Argentina, too, has said that Mr. Chavez recently made overtures about buying a reactor. ''We are ready and willing to cooperate with all countries that are part of the Nonproliferation Treaty, and Venezuela is one of them,'' Deputy Foreign Minister Jorge Taiana said in October.
 Though Brazil's nuclear program is more advanced than Argentina's, experts say that Argentina offers the best fit for Venezuela. It specializes in small reactors of a type appropriate for medical research and generating power, which it has sold to Australia, Egypt, Peru and Algeria.
 ''The technology is quite advanced, and because of the system of safeguards and inspections, there is no way to divert it'' into weapons programs, said Elias Palacios, an Argentine scientist who is co-secretary of the Brazilian-Argentine Agency for Accounting and Control of Nuclear Materials. ''If it's economically profitable for Argentina, there's no reason why it shouldn't be done.''
 Like Brazil, Argentina had a nuclear arms program when it was ruled by a military dictatorship in the late 1970's and early 1980's. Civilian governments in the two countries later shelved them, however, and ''because of economic factors and other priorities over the last 15 years, a lot of activity has had to be slowed or postponed,'' Mr. Palacios said.
 With relations between the Bush administration and Mr. Chavez so hostile, Washington has little leverage over Venezuela. But that is not the case with Brazil and Argentina, which have extensive ties, and the United States seems to have decided to focus its efforts there.
 ''We consider partners like Brazil and Argentina to be responsible partners on issues like nuclear power and proliferation,'' said Thomas A. Shannon, the assistant secretary of state for hemispheric affairs. ''We fully expect them to act in a responsible fashion.''
 But while Brazil and Argentina do not want to appear to be encouraging Mr. Chavez's nuclear ambitions, they also do not want to offend him. With his country eager to join the Mercosur trade group that they lead, Mr. Chavez has promised to invest heavily in regional energy projects, including the construction of a $10 billion, 3,700-mile natural gas pipeline from Venezuela to Argentina, and to supply energy on favorable terms to the group's four nations.
 Jose Goldemberg is a physicist who as minister of science and technology in the 1990's led the dismantling of Brazil's nuclear weapons program. While he says he worries that even a flirtation with Venezuela will hurt the reputation of two countries that have won praise for renouncing their nuclear arms programs, he does not think much will come of Mr. Chavez's campaign.
 ''This is braggadocio,'' he said. ''It's a way of challenging Bush, of making themselves feel important and forcing the United States to pay attention.'' 
 But Lawrence Scheinman, who was assistant secretary of state for nonproliferation and disarmament in the Clinton administration, notes there is ''a prestige factor involved'' in having nuclear reactors, and prestige has always interested Mr. Chavez. No matter what Mr. Chavez says now, if Venezuela acquired the technology to produce nuclear energy, he would have uranium and fuel that could be used to build a bomb. 
 ''One has to contemplate that possibility,'' Mr. Scheinman said. ''We do have a problem here of a country that's very antagonistic toward the United States and linking itself with Cuba. There is reason to be vigilant.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela celebrated energy and commerce deals with Argentina last week by riding a tractor in Bolivar State. Mr. Chavez wants to diversify his energy supplies by starting a nuclear program. (Photo by Miraflores Palace, via Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Electric Light and Power

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (57%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (57%) Larry Rohter; Juan Forero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%) Venezuela; Brazil; Argentina

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



554 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: No-Confidence Vote in Canada Threatens U.N. Climate Change Meeting 

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
Monday was supposed to be the day Canada took the reins of international environmental leadership, playing host to a United Nations climate change conference in Montreal to begin a critical round of negotiations to decide how the world will confront global warming in the coming decades.
 But now Monday is also the day that Prime Minister Paul Martin's Liberal Party government is expected to fall in a no-confidence vote in the House of Commons. Many of the Canadian cabinet ministers and other members of Parliament who were supposed to attend the conference will now be scurrying to the campaign trail instead. 
 ''It's the nightmare scenario that environmental activists around the world have been hoping would be avoided,'' said Elizabeth May, executive director of the Sierra Club of Canada. Speaking of Stephane Dion, the country's environment minister -- the chairman of the conference as well as a major political player in the battleground province of Quebec -- Ms. May said, ''He is bound to be just a tad distracted.''
 Mr. Dion traveled around the world over the last year trying to build a consensus for long-range policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions scientists have linked to warming. The new round of negotiations in Montreal is aimed at forging a new international agreement on cutting the emissions after 2012, when the Kyoto Protocol expires.
 That agreement, the first treaty requiring participating industrialized countries to reduce emissions, took effect in February and is an addendum to a 1992 pact that set only voluntary targets. The Bush administration rejected it, in part because it requires no reduction of emissions in developing countries. Without binding targets, environmentalists and many scientists warn, greenhouse gas emissions from China, India and other growing economies are likely to soar. Chances of agreement on emissions targets for after 2012 were seen as slim even before Canada's political turmoil intruded.
 ''It's not an ideal situation, but the show must go on,'' Mr. Dion said. 
 The conference will bring together 10,000 officials and advocates from more than 180 countries. Formally known as COP-11, or the 11th Conference of the Parties, it is an annual meeting of the countries, including the United States, that signed the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change at the 1992 Earth Summit in Brazil.
 Mr. Dion is supposed to be the leader of the continuing negotiations until the next annual conference. But his tenure as environment minister may be over before he can push ahead with finding common ground between countries, including the United States, that do not want hard long-range targets for emission reductions and countries that do. 
 Should the Liberals lose the vote now expected in January, a minister from the Conservative Party -- which is critical of the Kyoto Protocol and rooted in oil-rich Alberta Province -- would probably replace Mr. Dion as president of the conference for the rest of the year. 
 Mr. Dion, a mild-mannered man who wears a windmill pin on his lapel, has been credited by many environmentalists for his diplomatic skills with China, India and the Bush administration. He has pushed for international efforts to increase innovation like hydrogen fuel cells and methods for capturing carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, before it is emitted from smokestacks. ''What Canada will attempt to do is reach a rapprochement,'' he said.
 If politics were not distraction enough, the government has been buffeted recently by reports by environmental groups attacking its record on water and air pollution.
 A report released by the Pembina Institute and the David Suzuki Foundation noted that Canada was far behind in its pledge to reach Kyoto accord targets. ''Canada's energy policies, which include support for rapid expansion of highly greenhouse gas-intensive activities such as oil sands development, are sharply at odds with our climate policy,'' it said.
 Ms. May, of the Sierra Club, said: ''Using 1990 as the base year, Canada's emissions are now 24 percent higher, while the United States is up by 14 percent. The United States' performance is superior to Canada's, even though it is outside Kyoto.''
 When it signed the Kyoto agreement, Canada agreed to reduce its output of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by 6 percent below 1990 levels from 2008 to 2012. The original commitment meant cutting emissions by 240 million metric tons a year, but it now needs to cut them by 270 million metric tons annually. The oil production from oil sands -- a far higher emitter of pollution than conventional oil production -- is estimated to triple from the current one million barrels a day by 2015 and sextuple by 2030.
 Canada's target has been made all the more difficult to reach by government arrangements with oil refineries and other large industries to reduce their annual emission cuts to 36 million metric tons from the 55 million metric tons first planned.
 Canada has given tax incentives and other support for renewable energy sources like biomass and tidal power. It has made federal facilities more energy efficient and improved public mass transit. Still, to keep to its Kyoto pledges, Canada will have to offset its high emissions by financing projects that will reduce emissions abroad. But such ''carbon trading'' may cost billions. 
 ''The deals made with industry was like giving away the store,'' said David L. Anderson, a Liberal member of Parliament and former environment minister. ''The increase in Canadian emissions at one of the higher levels among industrialized countries affects our credibility to discuss future targets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%) Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; Weather; Global Warming

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (84%); SIERRA CLUB OF CANADA (56%) United Nations

PERSON: STEPHANE DION (79%); PAUL MARTIN (78%) Clifford Krauss; Stephane (Min) Dion; Paul (Prime Min) Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (91%) QUEBEC, CANADA (91%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%) Canada; Alberta (Canada); Canada

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2005



555 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Mall Stores See Trouble In Sales Data

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
As the nation's retail executives began poring over, and in some cases despairing over, sales receipts from the holiday weekend, one pattern became clearer: consumers mobbed discount chains, with their $398 laptops and 5 a.m. openings, but largely shopped right past other specialty retailers at the mall.
 The disparity, analysts said, could indicate a tough season ahead for clothing retailers like Gap and Aeropostale and even deeper discounts for shoppers as the chains scramble to build momentum in the crucial approach to Christmas. 
ShopperTrak, which measures purchases at 45,000 mall-based merchants, found that sales for the day after Thanksgiving fell 0.9 percent from last year, to $8.01 billion, a figure not adjusted for inflation. 
 ''The specialty guys just got outgunned this time around,'' said John D. Morris, a retail analyst at Harris Nesbitt.
 The winners, he said, were the discount chains with locations outside the malls, apparently the beneficiaries of an 11.4 percent increase in weekend spending among Visa USA cardholders. Wal-Mart reported that a record 10 million shoppers walked through its doors before noon Friday. In a recorded phone call over the weekend, the company said Friday sales ''exceeded plans'' and that consumers continued to shop after the early discounts expired.
 One possible explanation for the in-the-mall, outside-the-mall discrepancy: discount chains, led by Wal-Mart, blitzed consumers with advertising well before Thanksgiving, opened their stores even earlier than last year and offered the most talked-about discounts, like a $188 15-inch flat-panel television at Circuit City and a $77 H.P. four-megapixel digital camera at Staples.
 The mall-based merchants, on the other hand, largely avoided circulars or television advertising. Gap, in a surprising break with tradition, stopped marketing its marquee brand on TV after years of aggressive campaigns with stars like Sarah Jessica Parker, Missy Elliott and Joss Stone. (Gap, saying store traffic ''deteriorated beyond anticipated levels,'' is predicting a relatively weak holiday.) 
 It appeared that the Web snatched at least some of the traditional mall business. ComScore Networks, a market research firm, said online purchases rose 22 percent for the day after Thanksgiving, to $305 million. 
 Later mall openings may have also hampered specialty retailers. ''If you look at the retailers that went all out on Friday, many of them opened at 5 a.m. You did not see a lot of malls doing that,'' said Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for the National Retail Federation, an industry trade group in Washington
 Karen MacDonald, a spokeswoman for Taubman Centers, said most of the company's 23 shopping centers did not open until 8 a.m., three hours after bargain hunters sprinted into Best Buy, Circuit City and Wal-Mart. 
 Discounting at mall-based stores nevertheless may have lowered their overall sales for Friday, said Bill Martin, one of ShopperTrak's founders. 
 For the day after Thanksgiving, the Gap ran a ''buy one, get the second half off'' promotion; American Eagle Outfitters offered 15 percent off before noon; and by Saturday Aeropostale marked down much of its inventory 50 percent. 
 At the Aeropostale in Manhattan Mall on Saturday, where striped hooded sweaters and distressed denim appeared thoroughly picked over, Damaris Torres, 23, bought a pair of jeans, regularly $50, for $10. ''It's like basically free,'' she said.
 The 50 percent off sale ''is really, really good'' agreed Yomhyra Martinez, a 15-year-old from Boston, who stood in line at Aeropostale to buy two hooded sweaters because ''most of my friends own hoodies.''
 Despite a slower-than-expected start at the mall, the National Retail Federation stood by its forecast for the holiday season yesterday. It expects sales to rise 6 percent over 2004, which would make this year's performance good, but by no means great. Since 1999, when sales grew more than 8 percent, merchants have learned to live with more modest gains. 
 In a survey of more than 4,000 consumers over the weekend, the federation found that 61 percent made purchases at discount retailers, 47 percent at department stores and 41 percent at specialty stores. Over all, it estimated that the weekend's spending would rise 22 percent, to $27.8 billion.
 A handful of department stores proved a bright spot at the mall. J. C. Penney, whose sustained turnaround has surprised analysts who long ago predicted the death of the midtier department store, said Black Friday broke a record for customer traffic and sales. ''The day clearly exceeded our expectations,'' Ken Hicks, the chain's president, said in an interview. 
 But customers showed little interest in paying full price. Inside Macy's flagship store in Manhattan, a whirl of gold ornaments and red carpets, customers waved 20-percent-off coupons at the checkout counters. Marilyn Rivera, a 37-year-old single mother, bought two pairs of cowboys boots: designed by Jessica Simpson, for herself; the other by Nine West, for her daughter, both 50 percent off. 
 ''The deals seem to be better than other years,'' said Ms. Rivera of the Bronx. 
 It was unclear how much of the increase in spending by Visa users was simply a result of more shoppers with new debit and credit cards. The company said purchases of computers and electronics, a category ShopperTrak largely overlooks because the biggest sellers have moved out of the malls, rose 20.6 percent. 
 Spending on home furnishings, meanwhile, jumped 14.1 percent. ''You don't make those kinds of purchases if you are not feeling somewhat comfortable with your financial position,'' said Paul Cohen, a vice president at Visa. 
 On Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, that comfort was apparent. Kathleen McLean, a 41-year-old lawyer from South Dartmouth, Mass., split four bags from American Girl Place with her husband. Neatly packed inside were two pairs of pajamas, one for her niece, the other for her niece's American Girl doll. 
 ''I kind of went overboard,'' Ms. McLean said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers negotiated their way through cars on Friday to reach an outlet mall in Leesburg, Va. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); SALES PLAN (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (86%); VISA INC (82%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (86%); V (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (86%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (86%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (82%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



556 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Voters Approve Ban on Genetically Altered Crops

BYLINE: By TOM WRIGHT; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: GENEVA, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
Swiss voters on Sunday supported a five-year-ban on the farming of genetically modified crops, underscoring the problems facing the European Commission and biotech companies like Syngenta, Bayer and Monsanto as they try to overcome consumer doubts about safety. 
 ''The vote reflects the view across the E.U., not just Switzerland,'' said Adrian Bebb, an expert on the issue at Friends of the Earth, an advocacy group. ''The public doesn't want to eat genetically modified food.''
Syngenta, one of the largest producers of genetically modified organisms, often called G.M.O.'s, criticized the outcome of the vote. The company, which is based in Basel, Switzerland, has large operations in the United States.
 ''We regret the negative impact for research,'' Alwin Kopse, a spokesman for Syngenta, told Bloomberg News. ''We regret that farmers don't have the whole range of choice.''
 Although Switzerland's move does not ban research on G.M.O.'s, a Swiss business group, Economiesuisse, said it feared that a ban would deter companies from making further investment.
 ''The ban would deprive our farmers, companies and researchers of finding out what these genetically modified foods can do,'' the group said during campaigning before the vote. ''Because it is a very dynamic sector, five years is equivalent to an eternity, and we won't be able to regain that lost time.''
 In Switzerland, which is not a member of the European Union, farmers are not currently involved in growing genetically modified crops. On Sunday, 55.7 percent of the voters supported the five-year ban. 
 While the United States has led the production and consumption of genetically modified crops, European consumers have been largely hostile to them. The European Commission banned the import of G.M.O.'s, from the United States from 1998 to 2004. 
 Many European governments and consumers have fought the commission's attempts to open the market. In June, ministers of the environment in European countries upheld a decision by some governments, including France, Austria and Greece, to ban the use of eight genetically modified products previously authorized by the commission.
 While some governments, including Spain, Britain and the Netherlands, say Europe has appropriate safeguards in place, many nations contend further tests are needed before allowing widespread farming of genetically modified crops. Currently, only Spain has sizable areas given over to farming of such crops. Farmers in Germany and France are among those to have recently started operations on a smaller scale.
 The commission has pushed ahead with approving new G.M.O.'s despite the doubts about safety expressed by some European governments. In August, for example, it approved the use of rapeseed, or canola, in animal feed produced by the American company Monsanto after member states were split over whether the product was a risk to the environment.
 Michael Mann, a spokesman for the European Union's agriculture commissioner, Mariann Fischer Boel, said the union rigorously tested G.M.O.'s before approving them. The commission, he said, would not comment on the Swiss vote.
 Genetically modified crops are mainly produced by large-scale farmers in nations like the United States, Canada and China. Proponents say the technology, which involves using genetic alterations to help plants combat insects and herbicides, could help increase yields and reduce prices over the long term.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (93%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (89%); APPROVALS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); LIVESTOCK FEED (73%); LIVESTOCK FEED MFG (70%); IMPORT TRADE (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SYNGENTA AG (92%); MONSANTO CO (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (57%)

TICKER: SYT (NYSE) (92%); SYNN (SWX) (92%); MON (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%) EUROPE (96%); SWITZERLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); AUSTRIA (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



557 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Age of Anxiety

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Many eulogies were published following the recent death of Peter Drucker, the great management theorist. I was surprised, however, that few of these eulogies mentioned his book ''The Age of Discontinuity,'' a prophetic work that speaks directly to today's business headlines and economic anxieties.
 Mr. Drucker wrote ''The Age of Discontinuity'' in the late 1960's, a time when most people assumed that the big corporations of the day, companies like General Motors and U.S. Steel, would dominate the economy for the foreseeable future. He argued that this assumption was all wrong. 
It was true, he acknowledged, that the dominant industries and corporations of 1968 were pretty much the same as the dominant industries and corporations of 1945, and for that matter of decades earlier. ''The economic growth of the last twenty years,'' he wrote, ''has been very fast. But it has been carried largely by industries that were already 'big business' before World War I. Every one of the great nineteenth-century innovations gave birth, almost overnight, to a major new industry and to new big businesses. These are still the major industries and big businesses of today.''
 But all of that, said Mr. Drucker, was about to change. New technologies would usher in an era of ''turbulence'' like that of the half-century before World War I, and the dominance of the major industries and big businesses of 1968 would soon come to an end. 
 He was right. Consider, for example, what happened to America's steel industry. In the 1960's, steel production was virtually synonymous with economic might, as it had been for almost a century. But although the U.S. economy as a whole created lots of wealth and tens of millions of jobs between 1968 and 2000, employment in the U.S. steel industry fell 60 percent. 
 And as industries went, so did corporations. Many of the corporate giants of the 1960's, companies whose pre-eminence seemed permanent, have fallen on hard times, their places in the business hierarchy taken by new players. General Motors is only the most famous example.
 So what? Meet the new boss, same as the old boss: why does it matter if the list of leading corporations turns over every couple of decades, as long as the total number of jobs continues to grow?
 The answer is the reason Mr. Drucker's old book is so relevant to today's headlines: corporations can't provide their workers with economic security if the companies' own future is highly insecure. 
 American workers at big companies used to think they had made a deal. They would be loyal to their employers, and the companies in turn would be loyal to them, guaranteeing job security, health care and a dignified retirement. 
 Such deals were, in a real sense, the basis of America's postwar social order. We like to think of ourselves as rugged individualists, not like those coddled Europeans with their oversized welfare states. But as Jacob Hacker of Yale points out in his book ''The Divided Welfare State,'' if you add in corporate spending on health care and pensions -- spending that is both regulated by the government and subsidized by tax breaks -- we actually have a welfare state that's about as large relative to our economy as those of other advanced countries.
 The resulting system is imperfect: those who don't work for companies with good benefits are, in effect, second-class citizens. Still, the system more or less worked for several decades after World War II.
 Now, however, deals are being broken and the system is failing. Remember, Delphi was once part of General Motors, and its workers thought they were totally secure. 
 What went wrong? An important part of the answer is that America's semiprivatized welfare state worked in the first place only because we had a stable corporate order. And that stability -- along with any semblance of economic security for many workers -- is now gone. 
 Regular readers of this column know what I think we should do: instead of trying to provide economic security through the back door, via tax breaks designed to encourage corporations to provide health care and pensions, we should provide it through the front door, starting with national health insurance. You may disagree. But one thing is clear: Mr. Drucker's age of discontinuity is also an age of anxiety, in which workers can no longer count on loyalty from their employers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); WORLD WAR I (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DAY COS INC (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2435 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD (71%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



558 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: Union Claims Texas Victory With Janitors 

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Union organizers have obtained what they say is majority support in one of the biggest unionization drives in the South in decades, collecting the signatures of thousands of Houston janitors.
 In an era when unions typically face frustration and failure in attracting workers in the private sector, the Service Employees International Union is bringing in 5,000 janitors from several companies at once. With work force experts saying that unions face a slow death unless they can figure out how to organize private-sector workers in big bunches, labor leaders are looking to the Houston campaign as a model.
The service employees, which led a breakaway of four unions from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. last summer, has used several unusual tactics in Houston, among them lining up the support of religious leaders, pension funds and the city's mayor, Bill White, a Democrat. Making the effort even more unusual has been the union's success in a state that has long been hostile to labor.
 ''It's the largest unionization campaign in the South in years,'' said Julius Getman, a labor law professor at the University of Texas. ''Other unions will say, 'Yes, it can be done here.' '' 
 Mr. Getman predicted that the Houston effort would embolden other unions to take their chances with ambitious drives in the South, although success could prove difficult because many companies will continue to fight unionization efforts, and many workers still shy away from unions.
 ''This could be important to build momentum in the South, but it's still an incredibly hard task to organize'' there, said Richard W. Hurd, a professor of labor relations at Cornell. ''One big problem is there's not a base of union members in the South to use to do organizing. And employers in the South have demonstrated a very strong antiunion bias and a willingness to go to great lengths to avoid unionization.''
 The service employees' success comes as the percentage of private-sector workers in unions has dropped to 7.9 percent, the lowest rate in more than a century.
 With its campaign to organize the janitors, the union has focused on two groups it says are pivotal if labor is to grow again: low-wage workers and immigrants. The janitors, nearly all of them immigrants, earn just over $100 a week on average, usually working part time for $5.25 an hour.
 Some of Houston's business leaders oppose the unionization drive, saying its pledge of higher wages may hurt business. 
 ''I don't see how it's going to help Houston from a business standpoint,'' said Mark Jodon, a Houston lawyer who represents employers. ''It has the potential of raising the cost of doing business.''
 The union has trumpeted the Houston effort -- which cost more than $1 million -- as part of its Justice for Janitors campaign, billed as an antipoverty movement.
 Flora Aguilar, a Mexican immigrant who cleans an office tower for $5.25 an hour, volunteered to help the organizing drive as soon as the union gave the janitors questionnaires asking what aspects of their jobs they thought needed improvement.
 ''The wages are terrible, there are no benefits, there's nothing,'' Ms. Aguilar said. ''I have to stretch myself like a rubber band to make ends meet. I want a union because it will give me a better life.''
 In recent days, the union has collected cards signed by about three-fifths of the workers at four of Houston's biggest janitorial companies. An agreement signed in August calls for the American Arbitration Association to inspect the cards and certify when the union has received majority support. The janitorial companies have promised to recognize the union once that happens.
 Even if the union is recognized, it still faces a big obstacle in negotiating a contract that delivers some of the hoped-for improvements in wages and benefits.
 Yet the union's Texas achievement stands in stark contrast to the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s failed drive in the early 1980's, which sought to recruit tens of thousands of Houston workers. Known as the Houston Organizing Project, that $1-million-a-year effort faltered along with the economy, as unions retreated and focused on holding onto the workers they had, and as Texas companies fought hard against unionizing.
 Despite the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s anger at the service employees' union, which in breaking away had accused the federation of doing too little to organize workers, Stewart Acuff, the federation's organizing director, praised the Houston janitors' campaign, saying more such drives were needed.
 In the current campaign, the service employees urged several public-employee pension funds to press building owners and janitorial companies not to mount hard-hitting anti-union campaigns to defeat the organizing drive. To step up the pressure, the union called a strike at one building in Houston and then arranged sympathy strikes by janitors at 75 office buildings in four other states. 
 Because the union had no office or local in Houston, its giant local of building-service workers in Chicago oversaw the recruitment drive. That local dispatched a top official to Houston to run the campaign and flew in 25 Spanish-speaking janitors for weeks at a time to talk to janitors at their homes and workplaces.
 Workers were told of the union's success in New Jersey, where the salaries of 4,500 recently organized janitors had risen to $11.90 an hour from $5.85 an hour three years ago, and where many part-time workers had been converted to full-time status with health benefits.
 The union announced its campaign last April, but two years earlier, it sent a community liaison to Houston who helped line up backing from the city's mayor, several congressmen and dozens of clergymen, including the Roman Catholic archbishop, Joseph A. Fiorenza. The archbishop even celebrated a special Mass for janitors in August and spoke at the union's kickoff rally, telling the janitors that God was unhappy that they earned so little and did not have health coverage. 
 ''They work for the same companies that are in Chicago, New York and Los Angeles, and their counterparts there are getting much higher salaries,'' Archbishop Fiorenza said in an interview. ''It's just basic justice and fairness that the wages should be increased here.''
 Office building janitors average $20 an hour in New York City. They make $13.30 in Chicago and Philadelphia, cities with office rents comparable to Houston's and a cost of living about 40 percent higher. Janitors in Houston typically earn $5.25 an hour, 10 cents more than the federal minimum wage. But business leaders say the wages are consistent with what other unskilled workers earn. 
 ''The wages that are paid in Houston to janitors are generally above minimum wage,'' said Tammy Bettancourt, executive vice president of the Houston Building Owners and Managers Association. ''Their wages are very much in line with every other part-time job and with the city's retailers. That's what the market dictates.''
 Ercilia Sandoval, who cleans offices in a prime office tower, says she has not had a raise in eight years and does not have health insurance. A school dentist recently found that her 7-year-old daughter had six cavities, and fillings will cost $750, when her weekly take-home pay is $91.50.
 ''Everything has gone up except our wages,'' Ms. Sandoval said. ''If we ask for a raise, they say, 'Anyone who doesn't like it here, there's the door.' ''
 The union and the janitorial companies declined to discuss details of the drive because of a confidentiality agreement. The service employees have pressured the companies to accept majority support based on the number of workers who sign cards saying they want a union. 
 Convinced that it is easier to unionize workers through card checks, the union has shunned the typical process of having an election run by the National Labor Relations Board.
 Even before the confidentiality agreement was signed, cleaning company officials were reluctant to discuss the janitors' wages and why they had agreed to card checks and arbitrators' oversight.
 OneSource, one of the nation's largest cleaning companies, said, ''OneSource, along with every other major contractor in the Houston area, made a business decision to remain neutral in this process.'' 
 The company said it was premature to discuss wage levels while workers were considering whether to join the service employees' union.
 Union leaders said the cleaning companies had agreed to remain neutral because of pressures from building owners and pension funds, and because the service employees had threatened to pressure operations elsewhere, as it did with the sympathy strikes in California, Illinois, New York and Connecticut.
 Many unions hope to copy the Houston effort, but that could be difficult because many do not have the skilled organizers that the service employees have. Moreover, not all other industries are as vulnerable to union pressures. 
 Expanding on the Houston effort, the service employees hope to unionize 4,000 janitors in Atlanta, 2,000 in Phoenix and tens of thousands of shopping mall janitors nationwide. But even the service employees have encountered problems. For instance, their effort to organize 7,000 condominium workers in Miami has stalled because of opposition from the largest property management company there.
 Still, the Houston effort has gone more smoothly than union officials had expected.
 ''We decided that Houston would be the place to bring to bear everything we've built in the last 15 years,'' said Stephen Lerner, director of the Justice for Janitors campaign. ''That would allow us to organize a whole city at once.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ercilia Sandoval with her daughters Jennifer, 4, and Genesis, 7, and Flora Aguilar, right, say they struggle to make ends meet as office cleaners in Houston. Janitors in the city typically earn $5.25 an hour. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); IMMIGRATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); MAYORS (70%); LAWYERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); RELIGION (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (58%); AFL-CIO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



559 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: Gimme an Rx! Cheerleaders Pep Up Drug Sales

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
As an ambitious college student, Cassie Napier had all the right moves -- flips, tumbles, an ever-flashing America's sweetheart smile -- to prepare for her job after graduation. She became a drug saleswoman. 
 Ms. Napier, 26, was a star cheerleader on the national-champion University of Kentucky squad, which has been a springboard for many careers in pharmaceutical sales. She now plies doctors' offices selling the antacid Prevacid for TAP Pharmaceutical Products.
Ms. Napier says the skills she honed performing for thousands of fans helped land her job. ''I would think, essentially, that cheerleaders make good sales people,'' she said. 
 Anyone who has seen the parade of sales representatives through a doctor's waiting room has probably noticed that they are frequently female and invariably good looking. Less recognized is the fact that a good many are recruited from the cheerleading ranks. 
 Known for their athleticism, postage-stamp skirts and persuasive enthusiasm, cheerleaders have many qualities the drug industry looks for in its sales force. Some keep their pompoms active, like Onya, a sculptured former college cheerleader. On Sundays she works the sidelines for the Washington Redskins. But weekdays find her urging gynecologists to prescribe a treatment for vaginal yeast infection. 
 Some industry critics view wholesomely sexy drug representatives as a variation on the seductive inducements like dinners, golf outings and speaking fees that pharmaceutical companies have dangled to sway doctors to their brands. 
 But now that federal crackdowns and the industry's self-policing have curtailed those gifts, simple one-on-one human rapport, with all its potentially uncomfortable consequences, has become more important. And in a crowded field of 90,000 drug representatives, where individual clients wield vast prescription-writing influence over patients' medication, who better than cheerleaders to sway the hearts of the nation's doctors, still mostly men. 
 ''There's a saying that you'll never meet an ugly drug rep,'' said Dr. Thomas Carli of the University of Michigan. He led efforts to limit access to the representatives who once trolled hospital hallways. But Dr. Carli, who notes that even male drug representatives are athletic and handsome, predicts that the drug industry, whose image has suffered from safety problems and aggressive marketing tactics, will soon come to realize that ''the days of this sexual marketing are really quite limited.'' 
 But many cheerleaders, and their proponents, say they bring attributes besides good looks to the job -- so much so that their success has led to a recruiting pipeline that fuels the country's pharmaceutical sales force. T. Lynn Williamson, Ms. Napier's cheering adviser at Kentucky, says he regularly gets calls from recruiters looking for talent, mainly from pharmaceutical companies. ''They watch to see who's graduating,'' he said. 
 ''They don't ask what the major is,'' Mr. Williamson said. Proven cheerleading skills suffice. ''Exaggerated motions, exaggerated smiles, exaggerated enthusiasm -- they learn those things, and they can get people to do what they want.'' 
 Approximately two dozen Kentucky cheerleaders, mostly women but a few men, have become drug reps in recent years. 
 While there are no statistics on how many drug representatives are former or current cheerleaders, demand for them led to the formation of an employment firm, Spirited Sales Leaders, in Memphis. It maintains a database of thousands of potential candidates.
 ''The cheerleaders now are the top people in universities; these are really capable and high-profile people,'' said Gregory C. Webb, who is also a principal in a company that runs cheerleading camps and employs former cheerleaders. He started Spirited Sales Leaders about 18 months ago because so many cheerleaders were going into drug sales. He said he knew several hundred former cheerleaders who had become drug representatives.
 ''There's a lot of sizzle in it,'' said Mr. Webb. ''I've had people who are going right out, maybe they've been out of school for a year, and get a car and make up to $50,000, $60,000 with bonuses, if they do well.'' Compensation sometimes goes well into six figures.
 The ranks include women like Cristin Duren, a former University of Alabama cheerleader. Ms. Duren, 24, recently took a leave from First Horizon Pharmaceuticals to fulfill her duties as the reigning Miss Florida U.S.A. and prepare for next year's Miss U.S.A. pageant. 
 Onya, the Redskins cheerer (who asked that her last name be withheld, citing team policy), has her picture on the team's Web site in her official bikinilike uniform and also reclining in an actual bikini. Onya, 27, who declined to identify the company she works for, is but one of several drug representatives who have cheered for the Redskins, according to a spokeswoman for the team, Melanie Treanor. Many doctors say they privately joke about the appearance of saleswomen who come to their offices. Currently making the e-mail rounds is an anonymous parody of an X-rated ''diary'' of a cheerleader-turned-drug-saleswoman.
 ''Saw Dr. Johnson recently,'' one entry reads. ''After the 'episode' which occurred at our last dinner, I have purposely stayed away from him. The restraining order still remains.'' 
 Federal law bans employment discrimination based on factors like race and gender, but it omits appearance from the list. 
 ''Generally, discriminating in favor of attractive people is not against the law in the United States,'' said James J. McDonald Jr., a lawyer with Fisher & Phillips. But that might be changing, he said, citing a recent ruling by the California Supreme Court, which agreed to hear an employment lawsuit brought by a former L'Oreal manager who ignored a supervisor's order to fire a cosmetics saleswoman and hire someone more attractive.
 But pharmaceutical companies deny that sex appeal has any bearing on hiring. ''Obviously, people hired for the work have to be extroverts, a good conversationalist, a pleasant person to talk to; but that has nothing to do with looks, it's the personality,'' said Lamberto Andreotti, the president of worldwide pharmaceuticals for Bristol-Myers Squibb. 
 But Dr. Carli, at the University of Michigan, said that seduction appeared to be a deliberate industry strategy. And with research showing that pharmaceutical sales representatives influence prescribing habits, the industry sales methods are drawing criticism. 
 Dr. Dan Foster, a West Virginia surgeon and lawmaker who said he was reacting to the attractive but sometimes ill-informed drug representatives who came to his office, introduced a bill to require them to have science degrees. Dr. Foster's legislation was not adopted, but it helped inspire a new state regulation to require disclosure of minimum hiring requirements. 
 Ms. Napier, the former Kentucky cheerleader, said she was so concerned about the cute-but-dumb stereotype when she got her job that she worked diligently to learn about her product, Prevacid. 
 ''It's no secret that the women, and the people in general, hired in this industry are attractive people,'' she said. ''But there so much more to it.'' 
 Still, women have an advantage with male doctors, according to Jamie Reidy, a drug representative who was fired by Eli Lilly this year after writing a book lampooning the industry, ''Hard Sell: The Evolution of a Viagra Salesman.''
 In an interview, Mr. Reidy remembered a sales call with the ''all-time most attractive, coolest woman in the history of drug repdom.'' At first, he said, the doctor ''gave ten reasons not to use one of our drugs.''But, Mr. Reidy added: ''She gave a little hair toss and a tug on his sleeve and said, 'Come on, doctor, I need the scrips.' He said, 'O.K., how do I dose that thing?' I could never reach out and touch a female physician that way.''
 Stories abound about doctors who mistook a sales pitch as an invitation to more. A doctor in Washington pleaded guilty to assault last year and gave up his license after forcibly kissing a saleswoman on the lips. 
 One informal survey, conducted by a urologist in Pittsburgh, Dr. James J. McCague, found that 12 of 13 medical saleswomen said they had been sexually harassed by physicians. Dr. McCague published his findings in the trade magazine Medical Economics under the title ''Why Was That Doctor Naked in His Office?'' 
 Penny Ramsey Otwell, who cheered for the University of Maryland and now sells for Wyeth in the Dallas area, says she has managed to avoid such encounters. 
 ''We have a few of those doctors in our territory,'' said Ms. Otwell, 30, who was a contestant on the CBS television show ''Survivor.'' ''They'll get called on by representatives who can handle that kind of talk, ones that can tolerate it and don't think anything about it.'' 
 But there have been accusations that a pharmaceutical company encouraged using sex to make drug sales. In a federal lawsuit against Novartis, one saleswoman said she had been encouraged to exploit a personal relationship with a doctor to increase sales in her Montgomery, Ala., territory. In court papers responding to the lawsuit, Novartis denied the accusation. The company has also said it is committed to hiring and promoting women. 
 For her part, Ms. Napier, the TAP Pharmaceutical saleswoman, says it is partly her local celebrity that gives her a professional edge. On the University of Kentucky cheering squad, Ms. Napier stood out for her long dark hair and tiny physique that landed her atop human pyramids. 
 ''If I have a customer who is a real big U.K. fan, we'll have stories to tell each other,'' Ms. Napier said. ''If they can remember me as the cheerleader -- she has Prevacid -- it just allows you do to so many things.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 8, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Nov. 28 about cheerleaders who take jobs in pharmaceutical sales misstated the origin of a fictional diary of a cheerleader-turned-drug-saleswoman, which has circulated by e-mail. It was written by Dr. Douglas Farrago, a family physician in Auburn, Me., and was first published in 2002 in his bimonthly publication the Placebo Journal, and subsequently appeared in his book ''The Placebo Chronicles: Strange but True Tales from the Doctors' Lounge.'' It was not anonymous.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At game time, Onya, left, cheers on the Washington Redskins. But she saves some of her energy for her job in pharmaceutical sales. Drug companies have found that former cheerleaders like Penny Otwell, above, are good at persuading doctors. (Photo by Washington Redskins)(pg. A16)
 Penny Otwell, a former cheerleader, is a drug sales representative. (Photo by Allison V. Smith for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); SALES FORCE (90%); SALES & SELLING (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (76%); GOLF (72%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (71%); VAGINAL ANTIFUNGAL AGENTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TAKEDA AMERICA HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON REDSKINS (91%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS541712 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE PHYSICAL, ENGINEERING & LIFE SCIENCES (EXCEPT BIOTECHNOLOGY) (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



560 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Corruption Endangers a Treasure of the Caspian

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: NARDARAN, Azerbaijan 

 BODY:
The gray skiffs come and go in the dim November light, each crew accelerating their vessel's bow through the surf as they head offshore to pull nets. 
 Just up the beach, behind a wall draped with drying mesh, a crew handles its catch: 12 freshly landed osetra and sevruga sturgeon, each two to five feet long. A fisherman works the knife, unzipping the fish with swift sweeps of a blade.
These fishermen are poachers, chasing one of the world's most threatened and coveted fish, although judging by the indifferent police officers stationed a few hundred yards away, even highly organized poaching here carries few risks. 
 No resource, not even the oil that has shaped this region's politics and economies, is more richly associated with the Caspian basin than the sturgeon, a group of primeval fish bound to human history along the shores of the world's largest landlocked body of water. Once fare for pashas and czars, its briny eggs are among the most valuable wildlife commodities on earth. 
 Now, scientists say, the Caspian's sturgeon risk entering a final downward spiral.
 The fish have faced compounding problems for decades. Dams have walled off their spawning grounds. Pollution has silted and choked waterways. But the sturgeon's latest enemy may be its most lethal: corruption.
 Since the Soviet Union's collapse, unchecked fishing and struggling hatcheries have led to catches of less than 10 percent of historic highs. As much as 80 percent of the remaining fish are male, scientists say, the lopsided result of years of harvesting females for eggs. 
 The activity on this day shows why. Not only did the fisherman have meat enough to turn a profit in the restaurant trade in Baku, the Azeri capital, but two of the fish were heavy with Azerbaijan's original black gold -- caviar, worth $300 to $500 a kilogram (2.2 pounds) on the local black market, and more than 10 times that when it reaches Europe and the United States. Although the fish's plight is well documented, and international and domestic regulations protect the surviving stock on paper, the region's manifest lawlessness and graft undermine rules to the point of uselessness. 
 Several species live offshore, including sevruga, osetra and the huge beluga, a species capable of growing to 16 feet and 2,500 pounds. Except for a few years after the Soviet Union broke apart, and for limited quotas in Iranian waters, fishing at sea for these species has been banned in the Caspian since the early 1960's. And yet a fleet fishes for them in plain view.
 All afternoon the boats buzz back and forth, their crews wading through the surf to secure returning skiffs to trailers before driving off with the catch. They mostly fish within 12 miles of the beach during the cold season, fishermen say, suspending curtains of gillnet on the seabed 100 feet to 130 feet down. In the warm season they move to cool waters more than 300 feet deep. 
 One of the local fisherman, Ali, who asked that his last name be withheld so the police would not readily know who he is, said there were 11 sturgeon boats in Nardaran alone, and 3 more in a neighboring village. Where he used to work, near the Iranian border, he said, as many as 200 boats were involved. 
 These bustling illegal enterprises operate freely, the fishermen say, because they share profits with fishing inspectors and the police. 
 Ali said that to stay in business with his boat, a 29-foot wooden skiff with twin outboard engines, he paid $500 a month to the authorities, plus he gives fishing inspectors a few fish when they ask. ''We are on kind of a family basis,'' he said.
 Nardaran is not the best fishing area, he said; there are places where the inspectors seek more money. The protection payment is determined by a fisherman's rate of catch, the size of the vessel and the number of engines.
 Rauf Gadjiyev, who directs sturgeon conservation efforts of Azerbaijan's Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources, said that while limited corruption undermined the regulations, he thought it was less pervasive and developed than fishermen describe. ''Of course there are dishonest people who would do it,'' he said. ''But you understand it is strictly illegal.''
 Others say illegal behavior defines the Caspian sturgeon trade. ''In Russia they actually go out and patrol, but to collect their money,'' said Dr. Ellen Pikitch, co-author of a recent study in the journal Fish and Fisheries that documented sturgeon declines worldwide. ''In Kazakhstan it is so pitiful that the officials, the game wardens, do not even bother to go out.''
 The valuable species in the Caspian are covered by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna, or Cites, which mandates that nations create conservation policies for threatened species. In September the United States banned the import of beluga caviar and meat. 
 On Nov. 9, the Azeri government issued new regulations for the domestic sturgeon market. The law requires monthly reports about the trade, as well as better labels proving that sturgeon products have been legally caught. It also created guidelines for seizing illegal sturgeon products.
 But, historically, regulations have had little effect on Caspian poaching. ''There is political rhetoric, but in reality it doesn't seem there is any interest in restrictions,'' said Dr. Phaedra Doukakis, another of the study's authors. ''There has been blatant violation of every rule.''
 In Azerbaijan the lawlessness begins at sea and continues inland. Two fish shops display sturgeon hanging along the shoulder of the main road into Nardaran. One shop had eight osetra and four large sevruga sturgeon visible on a recent day, and a tank holding several live sturgeon. A police car with two officers was parked across the street. (A shop employee pushed a photographer away by the lens when he tried taking pictures.)
 In Baku's main bazaar, osetra sturgeon are stacked like logs in public view, and illegal caviar is sold beside pomegranates and dried fruits. Every restaurant of 12 surveyed served fresh sturgeon -- grilled, baked, stewed or in soups. Even ordering unspecified fish or chowder in Azeri restaurants often turns up dishes with sturgeon meat. 
 Moreover, Ali said he supplied part of his catch to an official, state-sanctioned fish business that then exported ''legal'' caviar to the West. This gives him a cover, he said, and launders much of his catch, which ends up in the West with the imprimatur of legitimacy. He declined to name the business. The Azeri official, Mr. Gadjiyev, said he did not believe such claims.
 What makes illegal sales especially threatening, scientists say, is that sturgeons' natural life cycles make them particularly vulnerable to overfishing. They reach sexual maturity late, often not until they are 10 years old, and they spawn rarely, in some cases once every six years. This gives them little chance to replenish themselves.
 It also means that females spend years carrying eggs. And in a nation where poverty afflicts roughly 40 percent of the population, egg-laden fish pull boats to sea. The possibility of riches is too alluring. Ali said that since last year he had caught only three beluga sturgeon, the most valuable species. But one weighed almost 1,900 pounds.
 After he and his crewmates cut the fish open, he said, they pulled out 100 kilograms of eggs. At today's prices, that could draw $50,000 for a day's work. It would ultimately sell for as much as $650,000 in the West.
 With such prices, the short-term market logic militates against conservation. As sturgeon become more scarce, they become more coveted, pushing prices higher and creating greater incentive to fish. The dynamic is perfectly counterproductive: the best money is in the eggs, the part of the fish needed to replenish stocks.
 The circumstance with sturgeon is similar to resource scarcities in many developing countries. Rules are on the books. The tension lies in waiting to see how long it takes countries like Azerbaijan, which rigged much of its parliamentary elections in November, to accept the notion of rule of law.
 ''My hope is that the fish can make it through this time when corruption is rampant in all manner of life,'' Dr. Pikitch said. ''In the meantime we have to do all we possibly can, and hope that the fish don't go extinct before these societies mature.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fresh caviar in Nardaran from fish poached in the Caspian Sea. Caviar is worth hundreds of dollars a pound on the local black market.
Sturgeon poached from the Caspian Sea were placed out in the open air recently after their eggs were extracted for caviar in Nardaran, Azerbaijan. (Photographs by Joseph Sywenkyj/Redux, for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 In Nardaran, a poacher cleans sturgeon, defying local and global law. Nearby police officers did not interfere. (Photo by Joseph Sywenkyj/Redux, for The New York Times)(pg. A1)Map of Azerbaijan highlighting Nardaran: At least 11 sturgeon boats are operating illegally in Nardaran. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); FISHES (90%); CORRUPTION (86%); WILDLIFE (76%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (76%); AQUACULTURE (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (73%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); MEN (69%); RESTAURANTS (67%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA (92%) AZERBAIJAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



561 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Muslim Nations Skip Meeting With Europe

BYLINE: By RENWICK McLEAN

DATELINE: BARCELONA, Spain, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
In a summit meeting marked as much by who was not there as who was, the European Union opened a two-day conference here on Sunday aimed at renewing its commitment to developing and democratizing Muslim nations on the Mediterranean's southern rim.
 Many of the North African and Middle Eastern leaders who had agreed to come to the meeting announced last week that they could not attend. Their absence weakens European claims that their approach to the Muslim world -- based on economic development, dialogue, strengthening the rule of law, and other forms of soft power -- has greater credibility with the region's leaders than what they see as the Bush administration's more aggressive approach. 
The conference was intended to bring together heads of state and government and other senior officials from all 25 members of the European Union, Israel and a dozen Muslim countries, including Egypt, Syria, Algeria, Jordan and Morocco.
 But despite initial indications they would attend, many of the top leaders from those countries stayed away, like President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, who cited domestic political concerns; King Mohammed VI of Morocco, who said he had business in Japan; and President Abdelaziz Bouteflika of Algeria, who was reported to be seeking medical treatment in France. 
 European leaders sought to play down the absence of their North African and Middle Eastern counterparts on Sunday, saying that the reasons appeared unrelated to the conference. ''These leaders have different reasons for not coming,'' said Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain. ''But I'm sure we'll have a good conference nonetheless.''
 The conference is intended to revitalize a European Union initiative known as the Barcelona process, established here 10 years ago with the goal of replicating in the Muslim world some of the European Union's procedures for integrating Central and Eastern European countries.
 ''One of the big objectives in Europe right now is closer ties with this region,'' said Jorge Rosa de Oliveira, an adviser to Prime Minister Jose Socrates of Portugal. ''It is important that we take joint action on immigration, terrorism and a number of issues.''
 In many ways, the Bush administration, another no-show in Barcelona, has done as much to shape the discussions here as the participants.
 A number of European academics, in studies and newspaper columns, and diplomats, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to discuss the subject publicly, have described the meeting as a chance to offer these nations a compelling alternative to the American approach, which they characterize as aggressive diplomacy and military intervention. 
 Much of the discussion at the meeting was expected to focus on terrorism, and European leaders have been stressing that the conference was an opportunity for Muslim countries to join them in forcefully condemning it. But initial efforts to develop a common statement on terrorism have been hobbled by disagreements over how to define it, with some Muslim leaders eager to differentiate between terrorism and what they see as legitimate resistance to a foreign military presence in places like Iraq, the European diplomats said. 
 The 10-year-old Barcelona initiative is one of the European Union's most ambitious foreign policy proposals, and one of its few enduring examples of a collective approach to foreign affairs. But it is widely considered a disappointment so far. 
 Critics have derided the initiative as overly ambitious, too expensive and excessively lenient in the conditions it places on the developing countries that want to receive aid. 
 The absence of the non-European leaders here is a significant barrier to making headway on many of the most complicated issues on the agenda. Progress on creating a regional free trade zone, for example, relies largely on resolving bilateral disputes between countries in the Muslim region of the Mediterranean, according to European officials.
 On immigration, the Europeans have been stressing the need to toughen border controls to slow the flow of migrants from North Africa, while Muslim nations have focused on the need to open markets and increase economic aid to help them create jobs that will help keep their residents at home.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A meeting in Barcelona of European and Muslim nations, whose aims were spelled out on a wall, opened yesterday minus crucial participants. (Photo by Kirsty Wigglesworth/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); TERRORISM (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: JOSE SOCRATES (58%); ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (56%); TONY BLAIR (53%); HOSNI MUBARAK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (91%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (91%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); EGYPT (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); ALGERIA (92%); MOROCCO (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (79%); JORDAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



562 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Race Tight After Vote for Honduran President

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
A continuing problem of violent crime, most of it attributed to youth gangs, was the central issue in the presidential election Sunday in Honduras.
 As voters cast their ballots, the final opinion polls in advance of the election indicated that two wealthy businessmen remained locked in a tight contest to govern one of the poorest nations in Latin America. 
But two polls conducted for Honduran television stations of people leaving the voting stations indicated Sunday night that the Liberal Party challenger, Manuel Zelaya, was leading the candidate of the governing National Party, Reuters reported.
 Mr. Zelaya declared victory Sunday even as official results were delayed by counting and computer problems and as his opponent, Porfirio Lobo Sosa, refused to concede.
 Mr. Lobo Sosa had promised to uphold the so-called Tough Hand Law, which was modeled after former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's zero-tolerance policies in New York and made it a felony to belong to a gang.
 The law has resulted in the arrests of more than 1,500 people suspected of being gang members and sent tens of thousands of gang members fleeing the country. Mr. Lobo Sosa also supported reinstatement of the death penalty, which was outlawed in 1937.
 Mr. Zelaya rejected the death penalty, as well as the antigang law, which he said only exacerbated the country's crime problems. He promised new social programs aimed at alleviating the poverty and unemployment that he said drive youths into gangs.
 Although the country has been politically stable since democratic elections in 1981, Honduras remains rife with corruption and economic inequality. The government says that the unemployment rate is close to 30 percent, and that more than 70 percent of the country's 7.2 million people live in poverty.
 But the candidates devoted little more than lip service to those issues. Crime dominated the campaigns, with Mr. Lobo accusing Mr. Zelaya of being weak on gangs and Mr. Zelaya accusing Mr. Lobo of supporting an overly repressive approach. 
 As voters went to the polls, Honduran authorities recaptured a 16-year-old boy who had been charged with killing an American tourist in a bungled robbery in July, The Associated Press reported.
 The youth, whom police describe as a gang member and is accused of involvement in at least 16 other killings, had escaped from prison five times.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Voters in Catacamas, a village in eastern Honduras, lined up to cast their ballots for president yesterday. (Photo by Esteban Felix/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); GANGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); POLITICS (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); FELONIES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); CORRUPTION (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); POVERTY RATES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: PORFIRIO LOBO (79%); MANUEL ZELAYA (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) HONDURAS (98%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



563 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Under Duress, Egypt's Islamist Party Still Surges at Polls

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: CAIRO, Nov. 27 

 BODY:
The Muslim Brotherhood may be banned, but it has demonstrated in the latest parliamentary elections that it is by far the strongest Egyptian opposition group, trouncing the secular political opposition and weakening the governing party's power monopoly. 
 Results released by the government on Sunday showed the Brotherhood winning 29 more seats in the runoff on Saturday for the second round of parliamentary voting. It won 47 seats in the first round this month, meaning that with just one more round of elections to go, the Brotherhood already has 76 seats -- more than five times its total in the departing Parliament.
Because of the group's outlaw status, its candidates run as independents. 
 The group's most recent gains have come despite the efforts of government security forces to block supporters from getting to the polls on Saturday, independent election monitors said. And it is now the only opposition group likely to qualify to nominate a candidate to run against President Hosni Mubarak in future elections. 
 ''They are a parallel power to the government,'' said Abu el-Ezz el-Hariri, deputy chairman of the leftist Tagamoa Party, whose leader was defeated by a Brotherhood candidate.
 Mr. Mubarak's governing National Democratic Party will apparently continue to control a vast majority of the seats in Parliament, having already won 195. But the new makeup of the chamber, which has 444 elected positions, may mean that the party will find itself forced to publicly defend its record and its actions against the increasingly empowered Brotherhood, which wants to make Egypt a religious state governed by Islamic law. 
 The shift may also force the Bush administration to decide whether to stick to its policy of shunning all contact with the group, as reiterated by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during her trip through the Middle East in June. 
 Despite its successes, it is hard to gauge the depth of support for the Brotherhood, as turnout in individual races was low, often in the neighborhood of 10 percent to 25 percent. Political analysts said the group's success was at least partly a function of the absence of any other organized political opposition.
 ''None of the observers or analysts predicted the results we achieved so far in these elections,'' said Muhammad Habib, deputy to the supreme guide, as the leader of the Muslim Brotherhood is called. ''We had long prepared for this, but the voter turnout exceeded our predictions.''
 The Brotherhood has been outlawed since the early 1950's, when some of its members tried to assassinate Prime Minister Gamal Abdel Nasser, who went on to become president. In the years since, while the government has arrested its members and its supporters, the Brotherhood has organized grass-roots support around the country and has more recently rejected the use of violence. 
 It has used its network of supporters and contributors to provide much-needed social services in many impoverished neighborhoods, and it managed to provide the only effective alternative to the governing party, in part by melding a political platform with the appeal of religion. The group's slogan, ''Islam Is the Solution,'' has become a rallying point for many people who reject the N.D.P.'s monopoly on power and who are dissatisfied with the glacial pace of economic and political change in the country. 
 ''It means that people are frustrated and people are not happy,'' said Hossam Badrawi, one of the leading N.D.P. members to push for democratic changes. He lost his seat in Parliament to a candidate backed by the old guard of the N.D.P. ''A large percentage of people have chosen a slogan, which means they do not trust enough what we are saying.''
 The parliamentary elections were supposed to be a chance for the N.D.P.'s younger leaders, led by Gamal Mubarak, the president's son, to push forward an agenda aimed at opening the political process -- however slightly -- and at retiring the old-guard leaders and their more heavy-handed practices.
 Instead, some of the leaders of the new guard lost their seats, and before the elections were over, it was clear who was in charge. The tough tactics of past elections appeared again, with the police blocking access to the polls and arresting hundreds of Brotherhood supporters. 
 ''The results of the elections so far show that there is a frightening state of polarization in Egypt, and it is not in the interest of anybody,'' said Hassan Nafaa, a political science professor at Cairo University. ''We have a religious current on the one hand and a party that has lost its legitimacy and credibility and is desperately clinging onto power on the other.'' 
 Abdel Moneim Said, an N.D.P. member and the director of the Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies, Egypt's top research organization, said the parliamentary elections had proved to be a positive force, because they had been more open and democratic than in the past and because they showed what he called a more realistic face of the power structure here.
 ''The power of the N.D.P. was highly exaggerated, so it is now down to size,'' he said. ''The power of the Muslim Brothers is appearing as expected because we know that they are there. Now we see them in the flesh and the blood.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Riot policemen at closed polls on Saturday in Alexandria, where the Muslim Brotherhood gained more seats. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RELIGION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ELECTION MONITORING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ASSASSINATION (73%); ARRESTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (73%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) EGYPT (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



564 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Gadid Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Gaza Gets Ready for a Harvest of Produce and Promise

BYLINE: By GREG MYRE

DATELINE: GADID, Gaza Strip, Nov. 26 

 BODY:
Amid the rubble of the former Jewish settlements, Palestinians have sown the first seeds of a modest economic revival. 
 Less than three months after the Israelis departed, Palestinians have repaired scores of greenhouses left by the settlers and planted a fall crop, and they are preparing to harvest an estimated $20 million worth of strawberries, cherry tomatoes, sweet peppers and herbs and spices. The produce is intended mostly for export to Europe, but some will also be headed to Israel, Arab countries and the United States.
After overcoming numerous obstacles, the Palestinians said their main worry now was the Karni border crossing between the Gaza Strip and Israel, critical to moving the produce to the markets. 
 After intense negotiations this month, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice brokered an agreement on the Gaza crossings that says Palestinian agricultural exports are to pass through Karni ''on an urgent basis.'' But the Palestinians say they remain worried about possible delays at the crossing.
 Still, the harvest, which begins in about 10 days, will be the first tangible measure of development in Gaza, which has been in an economic free fall for most of the past five years.
 ''I think we have made this a success in a very short period,'' said Bassil Jabir, director of the Palestine Economic Development Company, a government group that works with the private sector and is overseeing greenhouse rehabilitation.
 ''We are employing thousands of people in these greenhouses,'' Mr. Jabir said during an interview in the former settlement of Gadid, in the southwest corner of Gaza, as he visited the flourishing greenhouses. ''We kept the growing cycle intact. We have pumped a lot of money into the Gaza economy.''
 The Israeli military demolished the settlers' homes before leaving in September, and piles of smashed concrete have yet to be removed. Some greenhouses were looted by Palestinians in the chaotic days after the Israeli withdrawal, but today they are hives of activity, filled with the sounds of power saws and hammers at work.
 Karni is the crossing for goods going in and out of Gaza, which has no seaport or working airport. During the violence of the past five years, Israel has insisted on stringent checks for weapons, and Palestinian militants have staged deadly attacks at Karni. But the lengthy Israeli searches have caused frequent delays, at times spoiling produce before it reached its destination.
 Strawberries, for example, are the Palestinians' most valuable export, but they should be refrigerated until they reach the market. A few hours in the heat and dust at Karni can ruin them.
 Once the produce clears Karni, it will be handed over to the same Israeli export companies that the Gaza settlers used. ''We are new to this business, and I don't want to disrupt the system that has been in place for 30 years,'' said Mr. Jabir. ''I also believe that a divorce of the Israeli and Palestinian economies wouldn't be good for either side.''
 Israel says it too has an incentive in seeing Gaza's economy prosper. ''We understand that a successful Gaza economy is a crucial ingredient in the overall success of what is now Palestinian Gaza,'' said Mark Regev, a spokesman for Israel's Foreign Ministry. ''And the success of Gaza is a crucial factor in getting the peace process back on track.''
 For Palestinians, the greenhouses are the good news, and much of the economic picture is not so rosy. They have several major development projects planned in Gaza, but none have gained traction.
 The rubble from the 1,500 settler homes must be removed before the Palestinians can start building badly needed housing and other facilities in the former settlements, which account for roughly 20 percent of Gaza's land. Israel is supposed to pay for the removal of the rubble, but talks to complete a plan are still under way.
 A Gaza seaport is planned, but that is expected to take a minimum of two years, and will still require negotiations with Israel to operate it. The Palestinians want to renovate Gaza's airport, which Israel closed five years ago, but Israel has not yet authorized its repair and reopening.
 When the Jewish settlers came to Gaza decades ago, they developed innovative techniques for cultivating high-quality fruits and vegetables in the barren sand dunes, where fresh water is scarce. When the Israeli farmers started leaving, they took their most valuable equipment with them, and some greenhouses were damaged or destroyed.
 James D. Wolfensohn, the envoy for countries involved in Middle East peacemaking, cobbled together a group of wealthy Jewish Americans who pledged $14 million in compensation for the Israeli farmers provided that they left the greenhouses intact. The deal was reached just days before the settlers were evacuated, and it is not clear that it prevented much additional damage to the greenhouses.
 Still, Palestinian officials praise Mr. Wolfensohn's overall efforts to preserve the greenhouses and revitalize Gaza's enfeebled economy.
 The Israelis said they had about 1,000 acres of greenhouses in Gaza. But by the time Palestinian officials surveyed the land, they found only a few hundred acres in working condition. ''We had to rehabilitate the greenhouses day and night to catch the fall planting season,'' said Muhammad Bader, who is running the greenhouse project for the Palestine Economic Development Company.
 Today, crops are growing on close to 600 acres, and the Palestinians hope to plant on another 200 acres next month.
 Last year, Palestinian agricultural exports from the West Bank and Gaza totaled about $80 million, Mr. Bader said. The fall harvest from the Gaza greenhouses could add about $20 million to the total this year, though the exact figure is difficult to predict, he said.
 When the Israelis ran the greenhouses, Palestinian workers carried out much of the manual labor. About 3,000 have retained their jobs, and 1,000 workers and 2,000 private guards have been added. A typical worker makes $13 a day.
 ''I think we surprised even ourselves by how quickly we reached this stage,'' Mr. Bader said. ''But we have a lot of qualified people with a lot of experience in these greenhouses.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Palestinian working with cherry tomatoes in a Netzarim greenhouse.
 A portrait of Yasir Arafat signals the Palestinian presence at greenhouses in Netzarim in the Gaza Strip. (Photographs by George Azar for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



565 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

10 Accused of Plot to Kill Judge in Hussein Case
Less than 24 hours before Saddam Hussein's scheduled return to court on charges of crimes against humanity, the police in northern Iraq said they had arrested ten Sunni Arab men carrying orders from a fugitive associate of Mr. Hussein's for the assassination of the court's best-known judge. A1

In private conversations, American officials are beginning to acknowledge that a judgment about when withdrawals from Iraq can begin is driven by two political calendars -- one in Iraq and one in the United States -- as much as by military assessments. 
The final decision could hinge on whether the new Iraqi government, scheduled to be elected in less than three weeks, issues its own call for an American pullout. A1

Graft Endangers Caspian Fish
Although international and domestic regulations protect the sturgeon on paper, manifest lawlessness and graft in the Caspian region have led to unchecked fishing and struggling hatcheries. A1

Chinese Legal System Tested
A 2003 ruling that struck down a local law on seed prices has become, quite unexpectedly, a landmark case for the evolving Chinese legal system, and exposed the limits on judicial autonomy in China and the political retribution faced by judges. A1

Iran Hit by Powerful Quake
A powerful earthquake hit southern Iran, causing major destruction in seven villages, killing 10 people and injuring 80. The tremor shook Oman and the United Arab Emirates as well, forcing many office workers to evacuate their buildings. A6

Banned Egyptian Party Gains
The banned Muslim Brotherhood has demonstrated in the latest Parliamentary elections that it is by far the strongest Egyptian opposition group, trouncing the secular political opposition and weakening the governing party's power monopoly. A3

Zimbabwe Party Shows Power
Zimbabwe's ruling party predictably appeared assured of an overwhelming victory as officials tallied the results of a record low turnout in this weekend's election for the newly created upper house of Parliament. A9

Muslim Leaders Skip Meeting
The European Union opened a two-day conference in Barcelona aimed at renewing its commitment to developing and democratizing Muslim nations on the Mediterranean's southern rim -- a summit meeting marked by the absence of many of the North African and Middle Eastern leaders who had originally agreed to attend. A9

Crime Central to Honduras Vote
A continuing problem of violent crime, most of it attributed to youth gangs, was at the center of presidential elections in Honduras as two wealthy conservative businessmen remained locked in a tight contest to govern one of the poorest nations in Latin America. A9

NATIONAL A13-17

Texas Janitors' Drive Gives Unions Hope
Service Employees International Union organizers have obtained what they say is majority support in one of the biggest unionization drives in the South in decades, collecting the signatures of thousands of Houston janitors. A1

Cheerleaders and Sales
Many pharmaceutical companies are recruiting cheerleaders as sales representatives. Some industry critics view wholesomely sexy drug representatives as a variation on the more tangible gifts that pharmaceutical companies previously dangled to sway doctors to their brands. A1

Group Rallies for Prisoner
A group called Trial and Error, which claims a membership in the thousands, is trying to free a man convicted 16 years ago of what many consider to be Maine's most notorious crime. Many law enforcement officials, however, remain convinced that he is the killer. A13

Catholics Split on Gay Priests
Grappling with the implications of a Vatican directive issued last week that would bar most gay men from seminaries, Roman Catholics at parishes around the country offered contrasting interpretations of its impact on the priesthood, on the potential for future sexual abuse by clergy members and on the church itself. A13

Golf and Archaeology Clash
The Newark Earthworks, a sprawling and complex series of earthen mounds sculpted by the Hopewell Indians 2,000 years ago, is now home of the Moundbuilders Country Club. But the club's plans to double the size of its clubhouse prompted an organized protest. A15

New Tax Law Pinches Charities
The New Hope Day Center in Lansing, Mich., serves about 100 homeless people a day, providing meals and services like job training and substance abuse counseling. But the shelter could close next year -- a casualty, the operators say, of changes in federal tax laws. A14

Speaker Disputes Kerry
Representative J. Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House, is taking issue with statements sent out by Senator John Kerry, saying the senator falsely accused him of labeling Representative John P. Murtha a coward. An adviser to Mr. Kerry said the senator was comfortable with his characterization of the speaker's reaction. A17

Time Reporter Asked to Testify
A second reporter for Time magazine, Viveca Novak, has been asked to testify under oath in the C.I.A. leak case, about conversations in 2004 with a lawyer for Karl Rove, the magazine reported. The request for Ms. Novak's testimony is a sign that Mr. Fitzgerald has not yet completed his inquiry into Mr. Rove's actions. A17

Merck to Detail Restructuring
Merck, under pressure from investors and analysts to cut costs and pare thousands of employees from its payroll, said it would soon announce details of its long-awaited restructuring plan. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Man Pushed to Death In Path of Subway Train
Edison Guzman, a bakery worker from Queens, was killed when a man his family described as a friend and former co-worker threw him into the path of an oncoming subway train during a fight, the police said. Charges against the friend, Richie Molina of Brooklyn, were pending. B1

Community Resists Change
Gowanus, an industrial neighborhood squeezed amid brownstone Brooklyn, has attracted proposals to convert its factory spaces into residential ones. But many residents want to preserve the urban way of life in Gowanus, where workers lived among their workplaces. B1

Arrest Prompts Inquiries
Investigators in three states have been examining whether John F. Regan, a man from a prominent Connecticut family recently charged with stalking women, has links to several unsolved sex crimes and murders reaching back nearly two decades. B1

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTSMONDAY D1-9

ARTS E1-10

Art Institutions in the Home
Two neighbors in Harlem have opened new cultural institutions in their own homes. George Preston turned three floors of his brownstone into the Museum of Art and Origins. Two blocks away, Kurt Thometz converted a room of his own brownstone into Jumel Terrace Books, featuring works on Africana, Harlem history and related topics. E1

Israeli Director Honored
The Film Society of Lincoln Center is honoring the Israeli director Amos Gitai with a retrospective festival of his major work of the last 25 years. The festival begins this week. E3

Public Theater Raising Funds
The Public Theater is plannning a benefit fund-raising event for its 50th anniversary celebration. Titled ''The Public Sings,'' theevent will feature artists performing selections from signature Public Theater musicals. E7

OBITUARIES B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Discount Chains Thrive
As the nation's retail executives began poring over, and in some cases, despairing over sales receipts from the holiday weekend, one pattern became clearer: consumers mobbed discount chains, but largely shopped right past other specialty retailers at the mall. C1

Assessing Spielberg's Value
As NBC Universal closes in on a likely deal to acquire the live-action film business of its longtime partner DreamWorks SKG, one of the transaction's more intriguing questions remains: What will the media conglomerate really get if it picks up one of DreamWorks's most significant assets, the services of the co-founder Steven Spielberg? C1

Success for Hunan TV
Hunan TV, one of the most powerful television properties in China, has found success by creating zany, off-beat and even risque entertainment programs in a country still dominated by bland and predictable state-run programming. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: An army for the day after; public broadcasting's enemy within; the new Rwanda; Adam Cohen on Google and privacy.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Autos D109
Bridge E8
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E9
Weather B9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); FISHES (73%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); GANGS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); HONDURAS (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); EGYPT (92%); EUROPE (79%); OMAN (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



566 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; From Open Sewer to Open for Gentrification; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: Many Gowanus Residents Want Its Collar to Remain Blue

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The Gowanus Canal often stinks and is almost always spotted with slicks of oil. 
 The streets alongside it are practically deserted, the silence broken by the rumble of concrete mixers and oil tankers or the screech of buzz saws. Graffiti abounds, and no one would use the word harmonious for the landscape, where ramshackle wood-frame and brick row houses are tucked higgledy-piggledy among factories, warehouses and two housing projects.
Yet many of the 14,500 people whose homes flank the canal love the neighborhood's jagged, anarchic feel and do not want to see its industrial character nibbled away. At a time when neighborhoods like Dumbo, Long Island City and the Far West Side of Manhattan have largely been welcoming the conversion of factories into lofts for artists and, eventually, movers and shakers, these residents want to preserve a vanishing urban way of life where lunch-bucket workers lived among their workplaces. 
 ''To me, it's comfortable. It's not phony, it's not pristine,'' said Linda Mariano, 61, who has lived in a brick row house in Gowanus with her husband since 1974. ''It's a mishmash, and I like the variety. You take two steps and you're someplace else.'' 
 But in recent years, residents of this slender neighborhood squeezed amid brownstone Brooklyn have faced a number of proposals, some of them successful, to convert Gowanus factories and warehouses into residential spaces. As the inky waters of the mile-long canal have gotten cleaner, drawing striped bass and canoeists alike, landlords sniffing the winds of change -- and the higher prices they can command for dwellings -- are holding industrial properties off the market or offering their tenants the briefest of leases. Rents and home prices have soared, particularly as available industrial space has been eaten away. 
 So the working-class residents who do not want a neighborhood of oil depots, brass factories and workers' homes transformed by apartments with Sub-Zero refrigerators and Viking ranges have formed impromptu groups like Friends and Residents of Greater Gowanus, or Frogg, to which Ms. Mariano belongs. They have been joined in opposing new conversions by sympathizers elsewhere like Celia Cacace, a resident of neighboring Carroll Gardens who is proud of her family's blue-collar stripes.
 ''My sister Linda worked in Bush Terminal making envelopes,'' said Ms. Cacace, who is 69 and a member of Community Planning Board 6, the local board that makes recommendations on granting zoning variances in Gowanus. ''My brother Ralphie worked cleaning septic tanks in ships. Tony, he's the one born before me, he got a job in Long Island City for a sheet metal factory. My sister Esther, she passed away, she worked for American Can Company.'' 
 She wants the hundreds of factories in Gowanus and nearby Red Hook to be able to provide jobs for a new generation of immigrants, and for the housing that is there to remain within the workers' reach. ''They call it gentrification, I call it genocide,'' she said. ''They're killing neighborhoods.''
 So far, the opponents have successfully blocked requests for variances to convert a four-story warehouse at 255 Butler Street into a 6-story building with 53 apartments, replace a graffiti-scarred plant at 450 Union Street with a 7-story condo building, and convert an export-import company at 130 Third Street to apartments.
 Their biggest battle may be yet to come. They are gearing up to fight one of the city's more well-heeled development firms, a venture of the billionaire diamond entrepreneur Lev Leviev and the builder Shaya Boymelgreen. In preliminary proposals, the developers plan to tear down a factory and dig out a contaminated brownfield to create Gowanus Village, an apartment complex made up of loft buildings and town houses. The plan would require zoning changes.
 Frogg and its allies are defying powerful trends that view Gowanus as a reinvigorated residential bridge from Park Slope on the east to Carroll Gardens on the west and Boerum Hill on the northwest. Already, a 100-room Comfort Inn is rising on the edge of Gowanus, and Whole Foods has cleared a nearly square-block space at Third Street for a Brooklyn market. Gowanus is also less than a half-mile away from the Atlantic railyards, where the developer Bruce C. Ratner has proposed building a basketball arena for the Nets and 16 buildings with 7,300 apartments.
 ''The basic law of economics is to seek maximum return on investment, and typically that means residential development,'' said Craig Hammerman, the district manager of Community Board 6, which covers Carroll Gardens, Cobble Hill, Park Slope, Gowanus and Red Hook.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a new policy last January for safeguarding manufacturing that designated 15 Industrial Business Zones in neighborhoods like Long Island City and Hunts Point. These areas would be protected from rezoning, and companies relocating there would receive tax credits of $1,000 for each employee. Southwest Brooklyn was one of the 15 designees.
 But the maps being drafted so far include only southern Gowanus, not the blocks north of Third Street where residential conversions have been proposed. 
 Carl Hum, director of the Mayor's Office of Industrial and Manufacturing Businesses, said that with the city's population growing, officials must strike a balance between places to live and places to work. 
 Not everybody in the Gowanus area opposes more housing. Sandra Mineo, a longtime homeowner, thinks forlorn properties should be gussied up -- even if that means making them residential. ''I'd rather see something done with it than nothing done with it,'' she said. 
 Buddy Scotto, founder of Gowanus Canal Community Development Corporation, a nonprofit group subsidized by the state and city, has been pressing for converting buildings into housing for the elderly and moderate-income families. He and others argue that manufacturers today shun Gowanus, preferring tall, one-story spaces without columns that block pallet-bearing forklifts.
 ''These industrial buildings are obsolete,'' he said. ''Nobody wants to load elevators anymore.''
 As Gowanus becomes residential, he envisions the canal, which he says is scarcely used for shipping, being turned into Brooklyn's version of the Riverwalk in San Antonio. Already, new benches are dotting its banks, striped bass and jellyfish swim there and cormorants perch alongside.
 But Phaedra Thomas and Rachel Dubin of the Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation, which helps manufacturers seek tax abatements, argue that Gowanus industry is still vibrant. The group's survey last April counted 500 industrial firms, a 25 percent rise since 1997, and 3,000 employees. They found that only 3 percent of industrial spaces were vacant.
 Citywide, manufacturing continues to decline. The State Department of Labor counted only 120,492 industrial employees in the second quarter of 2004, and noted that 98,300 jobs had been lost since 1995. What remains are mostly light-industry companies, with fewer than 50 employees, that depend on designers, publishers and other professionals in Manhattan, said Adam Friedman, executive director of the New York Industrial Retention Network. Neighborhoods like Gowanus could provide the rentable spaces and highway access these smaller concerns desire. But they have difficulty finding long-term leases there.
 Even without variances, landlords are finding illegal tenants to live in their lofts or seeking out artists and artisans to work in the lofts, trends that often presage eventual conversion to residences. Two years ago, a group of artists bought a box factory at 543 Union Street for $3.1 million and legally converted it into 16 studios. Twelve artists live in a former factory building at 280 Nevins Street that was legally converted in 1986. 
 One of those is Margaret Maugenest, who moved from SoHo in 1984. Now that she is in Gowanus, she wants to make sure the neighborhood stays the way it is.
 ''SoHo was an interesting neighborhood,'' she said. ''You had the trucks and the rag industry. You had the artists, who are workers also because that's what we are. Now you have a neighborhood that doesn't have much character.''
 There are so many artists in Gowanus now that in October, 115 of them took part in the annual Gowanus Artists Studio Tour. 
 The drift to upscale housing is clear to people who have seen it all before. Jozef Koppelman, a cabinetmaker in a former garage on Baltic Street, has had his small firm pushed successively out of SoHo, Hell's Kitchen, Williamsburg, Chelsea and Dumbo, and now worries about being pressured out of Gowanus.
 ''I'm a textbook example,'' he said. ''I think about how many buildings I've worked in that now have a doorman.''

 (Photographs by Daniel Barry for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Linda Mariano, left, Joe Mariano and Margaret Maugenest, leaders of Frogg, an anti-gentrification group in Gowanus, in front of a brownfield property where a developer wants to build an apartment house. (Photo by Daniel Barry for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

Map of Brooklyn highlights Gowanus: Striped bass and canoeists have been seen in the Gowanus Canal. (pg. B4)

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn, seen from the Union Street Bridge. Above, Nevins and Sackett Streets. Gowanus warehouses often abut homes, many of them working-class row houses. Some Gowanus residents oppose developers' attempts to replace factory spaces with apartments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BULK SHIPPING (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); ZONING (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (73%); METAL CAN MFG (71%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); SEPTIC & PORTABLE TOILET SERVICES (60%) 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%) FROGG (Friends and Residents of Greater Gowanus (NYC)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (81%); C (BMV) (81%); 8710 (TSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (81%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%)

PERSON: Joseph Berger; Shaya Boymelgreen; Lev Leviev

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Gowanus Canal (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005



567 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Keeping the Old Cabaret Alive in the Land of 'Cabaret' 

BYLINE: By ROBERT LEVINE

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
In the grand style of performers from Germany's Weimar Republic, Max Raabe likes to party like it's 1929. A recent concert by Mr. Raabe and his Palast Orchester at the Leipzig Opera House included a selection of songs from the 1920's and 30's, witty banter between numbers and the occasional appearance of eight dancing girls in diaphanous skirts. At various points in the show, members of the band took the stage in traditional Bavarian dress and suits that looked tailored for Chicago gangsters, and kneeled in their shoes to appear as if they were about four feet tall. 
 After the show, at a restaurant in the center of Leipzig, in what was once East Germany, Mr. Raabe said simply, ''I love the cliches.'' So, apparently, did the audience, a few thousand mostly middle-aged Germans. 
Mr. Raabe, who will perform mainly in English with a smaller entourage in Zankel Hall in Manhattan on Nov. 30 and in Philadelphia a day later, is the most popular cabaret-style singer in Germany, which might seem a small distinction in a country now better known to music fans for its thriving techno scene. But several of his albums have sold more than 100,000 copies, and his two ''Super Hits'' collections of droll interpretations of pop songs like ''Oops! I Did It Again'' have introduced his music to a wider audience. 
 Mr. Raabe draws influence and material from several sources, including German film music and the bigger theater productions of the time. But his over-the-top show and his stage persona, all dry wit and sardonic distance, evoke Weimar Berlin and the decadent nightlife that was mythologized in the musical ''Cabaret.'' According to the newspaper Der Tagesspiegel, ''Max Raabe stands for the good old times as their archetypal ambassador.''
 Berlin in the 1920's is a time of enduring fascination all over the world. But in the German imagination it looms even larger, as a cultural golden age just before the darkness of the Nazi era and World War II. ''When people hear him, they think of the 20's and this multicultural atmosphere,'' Heinz Bude, a sociology professor at the University of Kassel, said of Mr. Raabe. ''That was the time when Germany was on top of the international culture scene.'' 
 He said that for older Germans, raised in a country that was collectively examining its role in the war, this idealized past was especially significant.
 In fact, Weimar Berlin can be seen as the good old days only compared with what followed. Even before Hitler rose to power, unemployment was rife and inflation rampant. The stories that provided the basis for the musical ''Cabaret,'' written by the English author Christopher Isherwood and based on his experiences in Weimar-era Berlin, are darker than the show they were made into. 
 ''That was not a good time for Germany,'' Mr. Raabe said. Onstage he makes a point of crediting the writers of his older songs, many of whom were Jewish. ''I don't want to bring nostalgia onstage because it implies things were better in those times. But that music does have a special quality.''
 To Mr. Raabe, the music he plays is timeless, a living form, and he tries to evoke the cosmopolitan cool of another era without seeming stuck in it. The old songs are memorable not only for their tunes, he said, but also for the witty wordplay that went with them. ''The humor of the repertory is not dated,'' he said. To judge by the examples he reels off, Mr. Raabe is something of a walking lyrical encyclopedia. 
 He writes new songs in the same style, with the same skewed humor. (Some of these, like a hit song with a title that translates literally as ''No Swine Ever Calls Me,'' lose something in translation, but others work in English as well.) Many of his songs comment slyly on current events, just as some of the material he was influenced by did when it was written. In one of his originals, ''Cloning Can Be Worthwhile,'' Mr. Raabe sings that if a lover leaves him he will ''go out on a date/ With your duplicate.''
 Despite such lyrics, Mr. Raabe, 42, a slight man with slicked-back blond hair, looks and acts as though he might have just stepped out of 20's Berlin himself. His apartment, a spacious loft in Berlin's Mitte district, is filled with old books and couches with pawed feet, stacks of shellac 78-r.p.m. records and a cabinet-style antique phonograph on which to play them. A modern stereo sits on a shelf in the corner. 
 As a teenager growing up in Westphalia, Mr. Raabe said, he listened to classical and big band music when his friends were discovering punk. ''It was like a drug flash for me, to listen to that music,'' he said in an interview at his home. ''I was never a teenager, with those attitudes. I was never really young, and I think I will never really be old.''
 When he attended college in Berlin, Mr. Raabe put together the first version of the Palast Orchester and rehearsed the group with orchestral arrangements he found at a flea market. Songs from the Weimar Republic weren't popular, especially with his fellow university students, and few new acts could make a career of performing them. ''We were sure that after we studied, we would give up and work at an opera or something,'' Mr. Raabe said. ''But we just kept going.''
 Mr. Raabe is not the only artist in Germany who performs cabaret material, although he's one of the few who play large halls. Several clubs hold cabaret nights. And a version of the musical ''Cabaret'' directed by the American choreographer Vincent Paterson is playing at the Bar Jeder Vernunft, a theater that also books cabaret acts. ''It's a viable and very alive art form here,'' Mr. Paterson said. He added that he went back to Mr. Isherwood's stories and made his version of the show a little less overtly glamorous. 
 Even the skewed humor that fascinates Mr. Raabe is a product of tough circumstances. ''Those times were so troubled that popular entertainment tried to counteract it,'' said Peter Jelavich, a professor of history at Johns Hopkins University and the author of ''Berlin Cabaret.'' ''They were trying, especially in the first half of the 30's, to write peppy songs to counteract the dismal realities of the day.''
 Even in these very different times, Mr. Raabe said, his concerts provide a respite of sorts. ''If you go to the concert, you can lose reality for two and a half hours,'' he said. ''That's what this music did, even in the 20's and 30's.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The German singer Max Raabe, whose show evokes Weimar Berlin, is to perform at Zankel Hall and in Philadelphia this week. (Photo by Dieter Mayr for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Max Raabe and the Palast Orchester performing in Munich this month. (Photo by Dieter Mayr for The New York Times)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); WRITERS (67%); WORLD WAR II (65%); WAR & CONFLICT (62%); SOCIOLOGY (61%); THEATER (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Music

ORGANIZATION: Palast Orchester (Music Group)

PERSON: Max Raabe; Robert Levine

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



568 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Artists Feel the Squeeze in a Midwest SoHo 

BYLINE: By HOPE GLASSBERG

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

 BODY:
The creative resources in and around Topeka, Kan., in the 1980's didn't inspire a whole lot of confidence in Julie Tyler. So she promptly fled her hometown after high school for cities with more prominent art scenes, attending Boston's School of the Museum of Fine Arts, and eventually settling in Washington.
 But a few years ago when Ms. Tyler, a printmaker and painter, and her husband, Victor, an amateur photographer, traveled back to nearby Kansas City, Mo., they were startled at the plethora of galleries and the number of artists living in the city's artsy Crossroads district. In many ways, they found the art scene more pulsating with life than its more famous outposts in the East.
''I always thought Kansas City didn't have its arts at the same level as the East Coast,'' said Ms. Tyler, 38. ''But when I came back I saw stuff here that was as good as the art I saw in New York and D.C. There was just a good energy. People were actually like 'Oh great, a new artist,' not closed off and competitive.'' 
 In June the Tylers purchased a 2,900-square-foot loft without plumbing or kitchen appliances at 18th and Wyandotte Streets, in the heart of the Crossroads, for $500,000. That made them representative of a new type of person moving downtown: artsy, but also older, upwardly mobile and willing to put down half a million dollars for a bare-bones loft. 
 It's a process familiar to anyone who has watched the evolution of SoHo in New York or most other downtown revitalizations. However positive the impact on the Kansas City art scene -- attracting new galleries and people like the Tylers away from the East Coast -- urban renewal has also threatened to squeeze out the artists who pioneered its progress. ''There's a higher price point now, and things are shifting from a renter's market to an ownership market,'' said Bill Dietrich, chief executive of the Downtown Council, an organization that represents businesses, nonprofit organizations and property owners in Kansas City. A study commissioned by the council found that, demographically, the Crossroads district had changed more in the last few years than any other part of downtown. Median income rose to $79,000 in 2004 from $33,000 in 2002, while the average age of residents jumped to 33 from 24. Real estate prices -- and, as a result, property taxes -- have also risen substantially.
 For young artists like Nancy Bach and Burak Duvenci, both 23, the pricey real estate in the Crossroads was not a realistic option. Instead they chose to rent a warehouse loft in the West Bottoms district, about two miles northwest of the Crossroads district. The space, which they share with two other artists, is 3,500 square feet and costs $275 a month per person. Indeed, the area -- once home to light industrial manufacturing plants -- positively teems with artists; locals say there are five or so warehouses with 50 to 100 residents each, sometimes squatting five to a loft.
 The price is right, but the sustainability of the West Bottoms district as an artist's haven is suspect. Many of the buildings are not zoned for residential purposes, and the artists remain because the city has chosen to turn a blind eye, for now. Perhaps of greater concern to the arts community is that the growing West Bottoms settlements show how quickly downtown revitalization, in the Crossroads in particular, is driving young artists out.
 ''It's kind of a house of cards,'' said James Woodfill, a well-established local sculptor and installation artist who has a studio in the east Crossroads. ''The Crossroads has based itself on young artists who live on shoestring budgets, but as rents and taxes rise, will that creative synergy move?''
 If local artists, with the assistance of the city, have anything to say about it, the synergy will not be disrupted anytime soon. Tax abatements and private initiatives, leaders hope, will help the established arts community stay put and keep younger artists moving in.
 Over the last year, the Crossroads Community Association has been working with the office of Mayor Kay Barnes to draw up a plan that would enable property owners using buildings for creative purposes like studios, fine arts schools or art dealerships to get a tax break. If the plan is passed by the City Council, building owners would pay property taxes based on the original value of their property for 10 years and then 50 percent of the tax value based on the most recent assessment of the property for the next 15. 
 Those same tax benefits were originally given on a project-by-project basis to real estate and commercial developers via Kansas City's Planned Industrial Expansion Authority to jumpstart growth downtown. Now that redevelopment is well under way -- since 2000, the city and the private sector have invested more than $3 billion in downtown projects, and there are more than 3,000 residential units built, under construction or planned, according to the Downtown Council -- artists want the same tax break to hedge against the rising property values that revitalization necessarily causes.
 ''It's good to get the neighborhood going, but why do you keep giving tax abatements to new people coming in?'' said Stephanie Leedy, who manages several properties in the Crossroads district originally bought by her father, Jim Leedy, a local gallerist and artist. At one of her properties, the Leedy-Voulkos Art Center, property taxes more than tripled, to $40,000, two years ago. 
 Suzie Aron, president of the Crossroads Community Association, is confident that the plan will enable both established property owners to keep their taxes at bay and give newer residential developers an explicit reason to cater to artists. ''The great thing about this plan is that if you are a landlord who rents to artists, you could qualify for the tax break and your renters will reap the benefits,'' she said. 
 For the tax abatement plan to pass, the entire Crossroads district would need to be deemed a ''blighted'' area. Forty percent of the district has already received that designation based on previous studies, and the city will survey the rest of the district starting next month, said Donovan Mouton, director of urban affairs in the mayor's office. Then, a majority of the 13-member City Council will also have to approve the plan. 
 In the meantime, initiatives like the Arts Incubator of Kansas City on 18th Street, a nonprofit that provides extensive business training and affordable studio space to nearly 40 artists, continue to keep young artists plugged in. Another prominent draw is the Urban Culture project, begun in 2003, which provides free studio and exhibition spaces to artists in vacant downtown storefronts. It is part of a larger organization known as the Charlotte Street Foundation, which offers unrestricted grants to Kansas City artists. 
 Milton Stevenson, a sculptor who graduated from the Kansas City Art Institute in 2004, is originally from New York and had intended to return upon graduation, but changed his mind when he considered the opportunities here. He rents a loft north of the River Market area and keeps studio space, courtesy of the Urban Culture Project, at 11th Street and Baltimore Avenue.
 ''There are a lot of things that encourage young artists to stay here,'' said Mr. Stevenson, 24. ''I don't know of any other city where I could have had a show one year out of school and have another one planned.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Property taxes for artists and galleries like the Leedy-Voulkos Art Center in the Crossroads area of Kansas City have increased considerably.
 Unable to afford the Crossroads district, the artists Burak Duvenci and Nancy Bach rent in West Bottoms. (Photographs by Don Ipock for The New York Times)Map of Kansas City, Missouri highlighting the Crossroads Arts District -- Revitalized neighborhood: Crossroads Arts District in Kansas City, Mo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (66%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Art; Lofts; Renting and Leasing; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Art

PERSON: Hope Glassberg

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (98%); TOPEKA, KS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MISSOURI, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (98%) Kansas City (Mo)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



569 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Fall 2.7%, Suggesting a Drag on '06 Economy 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes fell 2.7 percent last month and the inventory of houses and condominiums on the market rose to the highest monthly level in more than two years, an industry trade group reported yesterday.
 The National Association of Realtors said home sales fell to an annual pace of 7.09 million units in October, down from 7.29 million in September, which was the second-highest level ever.
There were 2.9 million single-family houses, condominiums and co-ops for sale in October, enough to keep the market supplied for 4.9 months, up from 4.6 months in September and the most since June 2003, when there was a 5-month supply. 
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had expected sales to fall to an annual pace of 7.2 million. 
 The association estimated that sales would have fallen by an even-greater 3.2 percent in October, had it not been for a surge in activity in cities like Baton Rouge, La., and Jackson, Miss., where evacuees from New Orleans and Mississippi coastal areas have bought homes since Hurricane Katrina struck at the end of August. Sales in the South fell 1.8 percent over all, to an annual pace of 2.8 million units.
 Existing-home sales reflect the closing of transactions that were entered into a month or more before. 
 Still, in an indication that demand for homes remains relatively strong, the median sales price -- half the homes sold for more and half for less -- rose to $218,000 last month from $213,000 in September and was 16.6 percent higher than a year earlier.
 ''The evidence is consistent with a slowing housing market but one that is still very strong,'' said Patrick Newport, an economist at the research firm Global Insight.
 But even a moderate slowdown will have a noticeable impact on economic growth, Mr. Newport indicated, because the rise in home values and the boom in mortgages has helped fuel consumer spending. ''There is no way around it,'' he said. ''The housing market is going to be a drag on the economy next year.'' 
 The latest data reinforced other recent measures of the housing market, like home construction, new-home prices and mortgage applications. Economists and real estate industry officials link the slowing to a rise in interest rates and, in some hot markets, worries that prices have risen too fast in a run of speculation.
 The report also appeared to confirm anecdotes from real estate agents and others that houses were taking longer to sell, which suggests a decline in sales and prices in coming months, analysts said. 
 The inventory increase in condominiums and co-ops -- a 5.5-month supply in October, up from 5.1 months in September -- has been particularly sharp in recent months. There was a 4.8-month supply of single-family houses, up from 4.5 months. 
 In a note to clients, Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, wrote: ''There are now 14.4 percent more homes for sale than a year ago, while actual sales are up just 3.3 percent. With mortgage demand slipping a bit and supply rising, price gains cannot continue at their current pace.''
 Home sales were weakest in the Northeast, where they dropped 7.4 percent, and strongest in the West, where they were down 1.2 percent. Sales in the Midwest fell 1.9 percent.
 The Realtors' association characterized the sales drop as a healthy cooling of a heated market. ''Housing activity has peaked and is coming down a bit,'' David Lereah, the group's chief economist, said in a statement, ''and we expect further cooling in the coming months.'' 
 The average interest rate on 30-year mortgages was 6.28 percent last week, up from 5.77 percent at the start of the year, according to Freddie Mac, the mortgage reseller.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); HURRICANES (67%); HURRICANE KATRINA (67%); INTEREST RATES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (70%); JACKSON, MS, USA (55%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



570 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Declines A Chance To Criticize Yuan Policy

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
Six months ago, the Bush administration warned that it would accuse China of currency manipulation if it failed to make substantial changes to its fixed peg between the yuan and the dollar.
 In July, China allowed the yuan to rise by 2 percent, the first change in more than 10 years, but it has not budged since.
On Monday, the Treasury Department once again held its tongue. Instead of accusing China of currency manipulation, it expressed disappointment that trading in the yuan is ''highly constricted'' and said it would ''intensely scrutinize'' its practices in future reports. 
 The statement was included in a report issued by the department every six months on the currency policies of the nation's trading partners.
 It provoked an angry reaction from American manufacturers, some lawmakers and outside trade analysts who have argued for years that China has deliberately undervalued its currency to make its exports cheaper in world markets.
 ''We've seen this movie before,'' said Frank Vargo, senior vice president for international affairs at the National Association of Manufacturers. ''What Treasury is saying is pretty much of a rerun of what it said back in May.''
 In Congress, two leading critics of China quietly renewed threats to seek legislation that would impose steep tariffs on Chinese imports if the yuan was not allowed to float more freely.
 ''The Chinese manipulate their currency, and the administration should not have ducked the issue,'' said one, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''Their refusal to acknowledge reality and take the necessary corrective actions hurts every American.''
 Mr. Schumer and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, have been co-sponsors of a bill that would impose tariffs of 27.5 percent on Chinese imports. This month, the two lawmakers agreed to defer a vote on their bill but left open the option of demanding a vote as early as December.
 China's trade surplus with the United States has continued to balloon in 2005 and is expected to approach a record $200 billion, bigger than the United States trade imbalance with any other nation, including Japan and the entire European Union.
 The trade imbalance is all but certain to widen even more next year. China's exports to the United States are six times its imports, meaning that American exports to China would have to climb at six times the rate of imports just to keep the trade balance at current levels.
 To keep its currency from rising in value, China's central bank continues to buy up United States debt and has acquired hundreds of billions of dollars in Treasury securities.
 ''It's a big mistake not to label China if the U.S. law has any meaning,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a research group in Washington. ''They are still intervening massively to keep their currency from rising. I don't see how you can not define that as manipulation.''
 Most analysts agree that the yuan is undervalued and would rise if China allowed it to float more freely. That makes Chinese exports cheaper for people paying in dollars, though it is far from clear that a higher value for the yuan would offset China's huge cost advantage in cheap labor. 
 Treasury Secretary John W. Snow has spent the last two years trying to persuade China that flexible exchange rates are in its own interest. 
 Branding China a ''currency manipulator'' would be largely symbolic, but it would be the first time in 11 years that the United States has made such a charge and would represent a much more confrontational approach.
 Greater pressure on China could come from Congress. In a vote that stunned the White House as well as Chinese officials, the Senate voted 67 to 33 against squelching a floor vote on the Schumer-Graham bill. That bill would impose tariffs of 27.5 percent if China failed to let its exchange rate reflect market forces.
 To postpone an immediate vote last spring, Senate Republican leaders promised Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham that they would be given a chance to bring their measure up later this year. Mr. Schumer said he had not decided whether to seek a vote as early as December, but an aide said that ''everything is on the table.'' 
 Administration officials flatly oppose such legislation, saying it would jeopardize trade and hurt consumers. Instead, they once again stressed their desire to let Chinese leaders make good on their repeated vow of moving toward a floating exchange rate.
 ''We're going to give them the benefit of the doubt that they will do what they say they are going to do,'' said Timothy D. Adams, under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs. ''We would just urge them to undertake a quicker pace of reform.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); BANKING IN CHINA (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%)

PERSON: LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



571 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: Money Is There to Aid Rural Internet, but Loans Are Hard to Get

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: DALLAS CENTER, Iowa 

 BODY:
Daniel and Linda Hawkins expected to lose some amenities when they moved to this small farming town, population 1,759, from a slightly larger city nearby. But they were so sure they would have high-speed Internet access that they had high-capacity wiring installed in every room in the house. 
 After all, many farmers who live nearby subscribe to a high-speed wireless service provided by Prairie iNet, a small company based outside Des Moines, and they zip effortlessly around the Web.
But to the couple's dismay, their new house, complete with a fishing pond in the back, lies in a wireless dead zone, one that Prairie iNet is not likely to fill soon. Turned down by a federal loan program meant to bring high-speed access to rural areas in 2004, the company is using its limited private funds to expand service to small businesses in the Des Moines suburbs rather than farmers and homes spread among the rolling corn and soybean fields of Iowa and Illinois, a constituency it started serving in 2000. 
 ''There is demand on the commercial side, and we recover our costs quicker on that side,'' said Neil J. Mulholland, Prairie iNet's founder and chief executive. ''And it's too bad, because there are a lot of people out in these areas that really want to get our service, and they will pay the $50. Many of them are paying $70.''
 Across rural America, entrepreneurs, lawmakers and Internet company executives say they are frustrated with a loan program created by Congress in 2002 to help extend high-speed Internet service to rural areas. Run by the Rural Utilities Service, an arm of the Department of Agriculture, the program has been allocated nearly $3 billion but the agency has lent less than half that.
 As of Sept. 30, the end of the 2005 fiscal year, the utilities service had rejected 87 loan applications totaling $1.1 billion and approved 48 loans totaling $770 million. The agency had nearly $2 billion in unused money, and $556 million of that must be committed to new loans before the end of the fiscal year next September or its authorization will expire. Most of the loans carry the same interest rates as United States Treasury bonds, about 4.5 percent.
 Critics say the agency's standards are so tough that applicants that have not been profitable for at least two years are rejected if they do not have enough cash on hand to cover a full year's operating expenses. When Prairie iNet applied for a $7.7 million loan in 2003, it was losing money (though it registered two small quarterly operating profits early in 2005). Its investors, among them Liberty Media, said they would chip in $4.2 million in new capital, but the lending agency wanted an investment of at least $7.7 million.
 ''This has created ridiculous situations where companies have sought $5 million and as a condition for approval they have been required to have that much money in the bank,'' said Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, who helped create the program and is now a big critic of the agency's handling of it. ''If they have that much money in the bank, why would they need the loan?''
 Agriculture Department officials acknowledge that the program has had a slow start and agree that some of the financial restrictions may need to be revised. But the rules, those officials say, were meant to ensure that borrowers were financially stable and that the loans would be repaid in full.
 ''I am empathetic to those concerns, but we do have a responsibility to make sure that we utilize the taxpayers' dollars judiciously,'' said Tom Dorr, the Agriculture Department's under secretary for rural development. He declined to discuss Prairie iNet's application, saying he was not intimately familiar with it.
 Started as the Rural Electrification Administration by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1930's, the Rural Utilities Service has a storied record of underwriting loans that brought electricity and phone service to rural America. None of its telephone company borrowers have ever defaulted on a loan, though $30.4 million in loans for high-speed Internet access, or broadband, are in default now.
 Mr. Dorr, whose family once owned a farm in Iowa, said that the agency historically lent to monopolies that had reliable and steady revenue and that most borrowers had no trouble qualifying for loans or repaying them. But with broadband, the agency has had to create new methods to assess the creditworthiness of start-up firms.
 Indeed, 70 percent of its broadband loans have gone to established telephone companies, even though 42 percent of its applications are from start-ups. Companies that have received loans praise the program, but even they express some frustration with it.
 The Rural Telephone Service Company, a 50-year-old phone company based in Lenora, Kan., has received four loans totaling $21.4 million to bring high-capacity fiber optic lines to towns with populations of 500 to 3,000.
 ''I don't think we could have done what we have done without it,'' Larry Sevier, the company's chief executive, said noting that private lenders had been reluctant to finance broadband projects since the telecommunications bust.
 But he said the utilities service can take up to a year to approve loans and disburse the funds. ''They have put a tremendous demand on their work force,'' Mr. Sevier said. ''They have not hired more people.''
 Hilda Gay Legg, who was administrator of the utility service from 2001 until February and is now a private consultant, said the agency was not allotted money to hire more people to run the broadband program. She added that the agency was less demanding than private lenders in requiring companies to have at least one year's operating expenses or 20 percent of the loan's value in cash. ''There have been some very good loans, and there have been some lessons learned that need to be evaluated,'' she said.
 Mr. Dorr said the Agriculture Department would revamp the program once a new administrator takes over at the utilities service, but he declined to discuss the details until then. [On Nov. 10, the Senate confirmed the nomination of James M. Andrew, a former president of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association and a former Georgia utility official.]
 Christopher A. McLean, a Rural Utilities Service administrator in the Clinton administration and now a consultant, said the agency must take the kind of risks that made rural electrification successful if President Bush's goal of having ubiquitous national broadband access by 2007 is to be achieved.
 ''The agency should never lend money where it knows that it's going to lose money,'' said Mr. McLean, who helps companies apply for loans. ''But at the same time, the agency should not forget that its whole mission is to go to places where the marketplace hasn't been able to go before.'' 
 Critics, which include rural cable companies, say the program has often done the opposite. A recent audit by the inspector general of the Agriculture Department faulted the program for approving $103.4 million in loans to suburban areas, including $45.6 million to 19 affluent new subdivisions just outside Houston. The utility service contends that those areas qualify as rural because the law was written to include small towns near urban areas.
 Iowa farmers who use broadband say their lives are immeasurably better for having the service.
 ''I don't know what I would do without it,'' said Diane Fox, who manages the business affairs on a 600-acre farm near Dallas Center that has been in the Fox family for four generations. ''They can take away my TV, they can take away my refrigerator, but they can't take away my central air and Internet.''
 Ms. Fox,who lives a few miles from the Hawkinses and pays $50 a month for Prairie iNet service, checks on corn subsidies, detailed weather forecasts and soil conditions online. Along the way she browses Amazon and eBay to buy gifts for her daughters, who live in Washington.
 There is no cable TV line running to her house, and Qwest Communications, her local phone company, cannot tell her when it will offer high-speed Internet service to her.
 A spokeswoman for Qwest, Kara Rovere, said the company, which is based in Denver, expected to have broadband in all Iowa telephone exchanges by the end of 2006.
 The Hawkinses said a high-speed connection would help their 18-year-old son, Luke, research high school assignments. A faster link would also allow them to send a video of him winning a track meet to family members and let Mrs. Hawkins take online classes to keep up her nursing license.
 But the signal from one Prairie iNet wireless transmitter near their house is too weak, and the transmission from another is blocked by a stand of trees.
 Mr. Mulholland said that Prairie iNet could install wireless transmission equipment onto a water tower near the Hawkins home. Each new wireless site typically costs the company $12,000 to $20,000, not including the $400 it spends on each receiving device in a home or business.
 Such an investment, which could serve several dozen farms and rural homes, would have been far more affordable had the company received the federal loan. But with its private funds, Prairie iNet is better off spending that cash in the fast-spreading suburban office parks outside Des Moines.
 Daniel Hawkins, a loan officer at a community bank, said he understood Prairie iNet's position but was not sure why the government did not step in to fill the void as it had in the past.
 ''This is no different than back in the 30's when farms didn't have electricity -- people used to have kerosene lights,'' Mr. Hawkins said. ''This is just a matter of keeping you in touch with the world. I think it would be a huge economic benefit for rural areas.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 1, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A caption in Business Day on Tuesday with an article about a loan program meant to foster high-speed Internet access in rural areas referred incorrectly to the property of two Iowa homeowners who lack such access. The homeowners, Daniel and Linda Hawkins of Dallas Center, live adjacent to a farm but not on one.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel and Linda Hawkins want high-speed Internet access on their Iowa farm, but only dial-up is available. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 After wiring their home for broadband, Daniel and Linda Hawkins found they lived in a wireless dead zone. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Holding Back''Lending from a program meant to foster high-speed Internet access in rural areas has fallen short of the levels envisioned by Congress.Graph tracks loans for rural high-speed Internet access from 2003-2005. The following distinctions concerning the loans (for each year) are made:Funds paid*Loans approvedLoans authorized by Congress*Approved loans may be paid out over several years.(Source by Department of Agriculture)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (85%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); CITIES (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); BONDS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (56%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); TREASURY SECURITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%) IOWA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



572 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: The Good Goliath

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
Once upon a time, social activists decried the plight of workers in company towns whose paychecks vanished each week because they were being gouged by the local stores. Urban politicians, angered by the high prices charged at grocery stores in the inner city, offered subsidies to attract chain stores that would make food more affordable for the poor. 
 Then Wal-Mart came along, giving small-town workers an alternative to the local oligopoly and offering urbanites food at the same low prices charged in the suburbs. Now the activists and politicians have a new cause: Say No to Wal-Mart! Stop it before it discounts again! 
 This new crusade is especially puzzling in light of the current consensus among poverty experts. I recently moderated what I expected to be a liberal-conservative debate on the topic that was sponsored by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. It was a fascinating discussion -- but as hard as I tried to provoke controversy, there wasn't much of a fight.
 Both sides praised welfare reform and said the government should keep pushing people off the rolls and into jobs. And because many of these people are unskilled workers who command less than $10 per hour, both sides agreed that the government should make work worthwhile by supplementing their income through more income tax credits and other programs.
 From that perspective, Wal-Mart has been one of the most successful antipoverty programs in America. It provides entry-level jobs that unskilled workers badly want -- there are often 5 or 10 applicants for each position at a new store.
 Critics say Wal-Mart's pay, $9.68 per hour on average, is too low and depresses local retail wages when a new store opens. That effect is debatable, but even if wages do go down slightly, these workers still end up with more disposable income, as Jason Furman, a visiting professor at New York University, concludes in a paper titled ''Wal-Mart: A Progressive Success Story.''
 Furman, a former economic adviser in the Clinton administration and the Kerry presidential campaign, notes that the possible decline in wages is minuscule compared with what the typical family saves by shopping at Wal-Mart: nearly $800 per year on groceries alone, a savings that's especially valuable to the many low-income shoppers at Wal-Mart.
 The average income of shoppers at Wal-Mart is $35,000, compared with $50,000 at Target and $74,000 at Costco. Costco is touted as the virtuous alternative to Wal-Mart because it pays better wages, but it needs to because it requires higher-skilled workers to sell higher-end products to its more affluent customers.
 Wal-Mart is often denounced for getting ''corporate welfare'' because some of its employees rely on Medicaid for health care and on other government aid. But so do some employees at other companies or at government institutions like public schools. Wal-Mart offers health benefits that are generally comparable to what other retailers offer.
 Its size makes it an easy target for enemies, like the Maryland legislators who passed a bill that would apparently affect only one company in the state: Wal-Mart. The legislators in Maryland (and other states) want to force Wal-Mart to either increase its spending on health care benefits or to make payments to the state's health program for the poor.
 But suppose Wal-Mart were forced to give health coverage to all of its part-time employees. To remain competitive, Wal-Mart would probably cut the cash wages of the workers to compensate for the additional health benefits. The cut in take-home pay would be particularly hard on the many part-timers who don't need the benefits because they're already covered through their spouses' or other insurance.
 Some of Wal-Mart's critics prefer to imagine that Wal-Mart wouldn't have to cut wages -- that it could get away with raising prices a little to cover the extra health care costs. But that would force Wal-Mart's shoppers to cover costs previously paid by the government out of revenues coming largely from income taxes, which are paid disproportionately by the affluent. Instead, Wal-Mart's low-income shoppers would, in effect, pay a regressive new sales tax.
 It's easy to understand the motives of some of Wal-Mart's enemies. Local merchants don't want to match its prices. Labor leaders know that they'll lose members and dues if unionized stores suffer. But why would anyone who claims to be fighting for social justice be so determined to take money out of the pockets of the poor? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); MEDICAID (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CARTELS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); INCOME TAX (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); AFFLUENT MARKET (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (74%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (74%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



573 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Merck to Close Five Plants And Lay Off 7,000 Employees
Merck, the drug maker, plans to close five manufacturing plants by 2008 and lay off 7,000 employees, about 11 percent of its work force, as it struggles with falling sales and profits. The cuts follow a similar announcement from Pfizer in March and are the latest sign of the crisis faced by major drug makers as patents on some of their most profitable medicines expire. In June, Merck will begin to face low-priced generic competition on Zocor, a cholesterol-lowering drug that is its top-selling medicine. [Page C1.] 


Muted Criticism From U.S. Over Yuan
Instead of accusing China of currency manipulation, the Treasury Department expressed disappointment that trading in the yuan is ''highly constricted'' and said it would ''intensely scrutinize'' China's practices in future reports. The agency's comments provoked an angry reaction from American manufacturers, some lawmakers and outside trade analysts. [C1.]

Despite Setbacks at Qwest, Investors See Potential
Investors have warmed to Qwest Communications, the smallest of the four Bell companies, even though it recently lost a bidding war for MCI and its balance sheet is heavy in debt. Market Place. [C1.]

Artery Treatment's Popularity Concerns Experts
The growing popularity of a treatment called carotid stenting has some experts worrying that too many doctors and patients, spurred by medical device makers, may embrace it without fully understanding that it is generally as risky as surgery -- and potentially riskier in some cases. [C1.]

G.M. Offers Some Temporary Assistance to Delphi
General Motors said that it would give the Delphi Corporation some temporary financial assistance while talks continued on a rescue plan. And Delphi said it was giving the United Automobile Workers union more time to negotiate before it files a motion in bankruptcy court asking a judge for permission to terminate its labor agreements. G.M. spun off Delphi six years ago, and it estimates that it faces a potential burden of up to $11 billion for its former workers' pensions and retirement health care costs and other obligations. [C4.]

Radiologist's Work for Plaintiffs Draws Scrutiny
Critics of product liability litigation over asbestos and silica have focused on a radiologist whose reports were often used to support claims by people seeking compensation for lung injury caused by inhalation of asbestos. [A1.]

U.S. Seeks Mediation in Talks With Air Traffic Controllers
The head of the Federal Aviation Administration called for mediation in talks with air traffic controllers, saying negotiations were near an impasse. [A20.]

Sales of Existing Homes Declined 2.7% in October
Sales of existing homes fell 2.7 percent last month and the inventory of houses and condominiums on the market rose to the highest monthly level in more than two years, an industry trade group reported. [C4.]

Stocks Decline Along With Oil Prices
Stocks fell as energy stocks tumbled on a big drop in oil prices. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 40.90 points, to 10,890.72. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 10.79 points, to 1,257.46, and the Nasdaq was down 23.64 points, to 2,239.37. [C11.]

Argentine President Ousts Economy Minister
Bringing an abrupt end to an alliance that had grown uneasy and even contentious, Argentina's president, Nestor Kirchner, left, fired his economy minister, Roberto Lavagna, the main architect of the country's recovery from the worst economic crisis in its history. No explanation was given for Mr. Lavagna's departure, but at a news conference a couple of hours later, he made it clear that he had been asked to leave. Domestic and foreign investors immediately made clear that they harbored doubts about the shift. [C10.]

Supreme Court Accepts Patent Case Involving EBay
The Supreme Court accepted an appeal by eBay in a closely watched patent case and agreed to revisit the rules under which courts grant injunctions against a company found to be infringing another's patent. [C9.]

Cowell Is Set to Return to 'American Idol'
Simon Cowell, the star of the Fox network's biggest hit show, ''American Idol,'' cleared the way for his continued participation in that program when he settled a suit by Simon Fuller, the British producer of the series. [C6.]

Royal Ahold to Pay $1.1 Billion to Settle Suits
Royal Ahold, the Dutch supermarket giant, said that it would pay shareholders worldwide $1.1 billion to settle class-action lawsuits that were threatening to derail the company's turnaround. [C10.]

Agency's Moves Show Nontraditional Emphasis
The Momentum Worldwide division of the McCann Erickson Worldgroup is bolstering its creative ranks. The move underscores the growing attention paid by big agencies to realms outside traditional advertising, like promotions, public relations and sponsorships. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C6.]

Where Sophisticated Airline Food Is Not an Oxymoron
In contrast to the situation on commercial airlines, the cuisine on private jets is steadily improving. Itineraries. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of General Motors since September. (Sept.: $32.97 -- Nov.: $23.22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (92%); PLANT CLOSINGS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CLOSINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (79%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (75%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (73%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); CHOLESTEROL (71%); CORPORATE DEBT (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (67%); ASBESTOS (65%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (63%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); LITIGATION (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (62%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (60%); CIVIL AVIATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (92%); PFIZER INC (58%); CENTURYLINK INC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (92%); MRK (NYSE) (92%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); CTL (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



574 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: President Renews Effort to Overhaul Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: TUCSON, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
President Bush kicked off a new effort on Monday to unite Republicans behind an overhaul of immigration laws. He emphasized the need to choke off the flow of illegal immigrants while trying to address conservatives' concerns about his plan to grant temporary legal status to millions of illegal workers already in the United States.
 On the first of two days of appearances in two border states, Arizona and Texas, Mr. Bush tried to stake out a middle ground on an issue that has divided Republicans, saying the nation did not have to choose between upholding its immigration laws and being compassionate to the millions of workers who travel here desperate to make a living. 
 His emphasis was unmistakably on the elements that most concern conservatives in his party. They are demanding more forceful steps to hold back the waves of people who flow across the Mexican border and are deeply opposed to anything that smacks of amnesty for people who have entered illegally.
 ''Illegal immigration's a serious challenge,'' Mr. Bush said, flanked by two black Border Patrol helicopters in a hangar at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base here. ''And our responsibility is clear. We are going to protect the border.''
 Mr. Bush listed initiatives that he said were helping, including returning illegal immigrants from Mexico to their hometowns rather than simply sending them back across the border and moving to end the practice of releasing illegal immigrants in the United States in the expectation, usually dashed, that they will appear for court hearings. 
 He approvingly cited programs to build walls and fences in some areas, spoke of how technology was helping catch people sneaking across the border and pushed budget increases he has supported.
 The president cast his original proposal for a temporary guest worker program as a safety valve that would reduce illegal immigration and sought to ease concerns among some conservatives that it would amount to amnesty for lawbreakers. His plan would let millions of illegal immigrants obtain legal status for a fixed but as yet undetermined period, but would then require them to return to their home countries, a provision that many immigration experts say is unworkable and unrealistic.
 ''We're going to secure the border by catching those who enter illegally and hardening the border to prevent illegal crossings,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We're going to strengthen enforcement of our immigration laws within our country. And together with Congress, we're going to create a temporary worker program that'll take pressure off the border, bring workers from out of the shadows and reject amnesty.''
 He signaled that he would oppose any effort to limit changes in immigration policy to an increase in border security. In doing so, he suggested that the White House preferred the approach being taken by Senate Republican leaders who have promised to develop a broad approach to immigration and border security to that being taken by House Republican leaders who plan to bring up a bill just on border security.
 In the audience were the two Arizona senators, both Republicans: John McCain, who has co-sponsored a plan to give participants in the guest worker program a path to citizenship, and Jon Kyl, who has co-sponsored a bill to deny temporary workers a path to citizenship. 
 Their bills are among proposals on Capitol Hill that include building a wall along the entire Mexican border, using military forces to patrol the border, creating a volunteer marshal program to help patrols and increasing fines for employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants. 
 ''Listen, there's a lot of opinions on this proposal,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I understand that. But people in this debate must recognize that we will not be able to effectively enforce our immigration laws until we create a temporary worker program.''
 In taking on the issue, Mr. Bush has found himself caught between two powerful forces. On one side is business, which pleads for a system that will ensure employers' access to workers who are willing to take jobs that they say they cannot fill with Americans or legal immigrants. 
 On the other side are conservatives who say the big problem is a porous border that is creating huge law enforcement problems and adding to the costs of social welfare, education and other programs.
 Democrats are highlighting the Republicans' divisions, pressing Mr. Bush not to acquiesce to conservatives and asking him to address the full range of immigration issues.
 ''As Congress finally begins to address this problem, I hope that you will stand up to the right wing of your party and stand up for what is right,'' Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat who is minority leader, said in a letter sent on Monday to Mr. Bush. 
 Mr. Reid continued, ''Democrats support immigration policies that will reunite families, provide for continued American economic growth, protect the rights of American workers, secure economic stability for our neighbors to the south and honor the values of the United States of America as a nation of immigrants.''
 Immigration is among the trickiest issues on Mr. Bush's domestic agenda, and it is in some ways similar to what President Bill Clinton faced in pushing for an overhaul of the welfare system a decade ago. 
 As Mr. Clinton did with welfare, Mr. Bush became immersed in immigration as governor. Just as Mr. Clinton wanted to use toughening the welfare system as a way to break with liberal orthodoxy and lay claim to the political center, Mr. Bush and his advisers have always viewed addressing immigration in a way sensitive to immigrants as an opportunity to strengthen his party's appeal to Hispanics, a fast-growing segment of the population. 
 Just as Mr. Clinton had to risk outrage among Democrats in signing a Republican welfare bill just months before he faced re-election in 1996, Mr. Bush finds himself navigating between factions of his party and at risk of having opened a debate that he can no longer control at a time his political fortunes have been sinking and he is increasingly reliant on his conservative base for support.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators John McCain, right, and Jon Kyl, both Republicans of Arizona, at a briefing on immigration yesterday in Tucson with President Bush. Mr. McCain and Mr. Kyl have proposed sharply different programs. (Photo by Evan Vucci/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); AMNESTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); BUDGETS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); AIR FORCES (67%); HELICOPTERS (52%); ARMED FORCES (52%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (74%); JON KYL (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



575 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Liberal Party Loses Vote Of Confidence In Canada

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 28 

 BODY:
Canada's three opposition parties voted in the House of Commons on Monday night to bring down the Liberal government of Prime Minister Paul Martin, contending that the governing party is corrupt.
 The result of the no-confidence vote had been expected for the last month, since the release of a report by a federal inquiry looking into accusations that the Liberal Party in the late 1990's laundered money and committed fraudulent campaign finance practices in Quebec Province to counter separatist forces. The report said the party had benefited from a kickback scheme.
 ''In this campaign we will hear nothing but pessimism'' from the opposition, Mr. Martin said after the 171 to 133 vote in a speech that did not mention the scandal. ''We will fight for a Canada in which no one is left behind.'' 
 New parliamentary elections will pit Mr. Martin against Stephen Harper, the Conservative Party leader, for the second time in less than two years. Neither candidate is particularly charismatic, and neither has captured the public imagination.
 ''Canadians are counting on you to give them a clean, honest government,'' Mr. Harper told his party caucus after the vote. ''We need an accountable government.''
 Mr. Martin was exonerated of any blame in the scandal by the inquiry, but the opposition hopes to make past misdeeds by the Liberals the major issue of the campaign anyway. The Liberals hope to emphasize their economic accomplishments, citing reduced unemployment, lower taxes and expanded federal budget surpluses.
 Since the broad outlines of the corruption scandal were known during the national campaign last year, culminating in a narrow Liberal victory and a wobbly government, many political columnists and academics expect a similar result when voters go to the polls in January.
 The campaign already has a strident tone, which is likely to drive down turnout by an electorate that prefers its politics tidy and polite.
 In a debate last week in the House of Commons, Mr. Harper said the Liberals had been ''found to have been involved in a massive corruption ring using organized crime to defraud taxpayers.''
 In response, the Liberals sent Mr. Harper a letter from a lawyer warning that the party would bring suit if, outside the House of Commons, he repeated his accusation that there is a link between the Liberals and organized crime. Within the Commons, he has parliamentary immunity. 
 Mr. Harper refused to retract his statement. Continuing the attack on Monday, the Conservatives called on the Ontario Securities Commission to investigate whether a spike in stock market trading on the Toronto exchange, just before recent government announcements on tax breaks for income trusts, had been caused by government leaks to insiders.
 Mr. Martin in recent weeks has been ratcheting up his comments in opposing American tariffs on Canadian softwood imports, apparently in an effort to win votes in British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec, provinces that are expected to be political battlegrounds. 
 In the past few days, the government has announced more than $20 billion in aid for the lumber industry, as well as social programs to benefit native populations, students, immigrants, disabled people, the military, the arts, crime prevention and mass transit. The government also announced cuts of about $30 billion in personal and corporate taxes over several years, as well as cuts in taxes on dividends.
 Whether the Liberals or the Conservatives win, neither party is expected to gain a majority in the House of Commons, making another election in the next year or two a distinct possibility. That would mean that the separatist Bloc Quebecois and social democratic New Democratic Party would still be power brokers in the next Parliament.
 ''Santa Claus will be wearing Liberal red this season with all of the goodies and likelihood that the Liberals are poised to come back in power,'' said David Taras, a political scientist at the University of Calgary, referring to the governing party's official color. ''But it's not impossible for Harper to win. There is a mood for change, and that is what Harper has going for him.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SCANDALS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); BRIBERY (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); IMMUNITY (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); SECURITIES TRADING (63%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (60%); WRITERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: PAUL MARTIN (90%); STEPHEN HARPER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (59%); QUEBEC, CANADA (59%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



576 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Hard to Pronounce, Infinitely Harder to Cure

BYLINE: By Jane E. Brody

 BODY:
In the ''life is not fair'' department, Amy Farber and several hundred other women like her have been dealt a particularly nasty blow. They have a disease that few people, including doctors, have ever heard of -- a very rare, progressive and ultimately fatal lung disease that primarily affects young women. Its cause is unknown, and there is no effective treatment. 
 Furthermore, the name of the disease is hardly memorable: lymphangioleiomyomatosis, (pronounced lim-FAN-zhee-oh-LYE-oh-MY-oh-muh-TOE-sis), or LAM for short.
It is among the rarest in the catalog of rare diseases -- health problems that receive little research attention because it is hard for public and private institutions to justify spending time and money searching for cures. Meanwhile, their victims are doomed to suffer and, in the case of LAM, die within a decade or two. 
 Unless there is a drastic change in the way research is organized, the only hope for people like Ms. Farber is that one of the few researchers exploring her disease will stumble on a way to arrest or even cure it before it destroys her lungs.

Spreading the Word
 As Ms. Farber pointed out in a letter to a friend, rare diseases ''can teach us about more common serious diseases.''
 ''Although LAM is not a cancer,'' she continued, ''LAM research has the potential to shed significant light on cancer, heart disease, diabetes and obesity.''
 Ms. Farber is 35 and lives in Boston with her husband, Michael, whom she married just a year ago. He is completing a medical residency, and Ms. Farber, who has a Ph.D. in cultural anthropology from Harvard, has finished two years of law school. Her plan was to devote herself to community service and social justice. She expected, she said, ''to use the law as an advocacy tool to support access to health care for those most socially and economically marginalized.''
 Ms. Farber had been a healthy and physically active woman when, last December, she became fatigued and had significant discomfort in her back. Hoping to become pregnant, she decided to get checked out to be sure she was healthy. 
 The first round of routine tests (blood work, chest X-ray) came back normal. But when she pressed her doctor for a further work-up, a CT scan of her upper abdomen revealed a small mass on one kidney and scattered cysts throughout her lungs. She was referred to a pulmonologist, who told her the findings were suggestive of LAM, a diagnosis confirmed in April at the Clinical Center of the National Institutes of Health.
 LAM was first described in the medical literature in 1937 as a disease in which an unusual type of muscle cell invades the tissues of the lungs. As the disease progresses, these cells form bundles that grow into the walls of the airways and the vessels that carry blood and lymph, obstructing them. The lungs become a mass of cysts that supplant normal lung tissue.
 In about half the cases, patients develop a benign kidney tumor. The disease most often occurs in women of childbearing age and is exacerbated by estrogen. Pregnancy makes it worse, and most postmenopausal women who get it are taking supplemental hormones. After a diagnosis, women are advised to avoid pregnancy and, in some cases, to have their ovaries removed. 
 People with LAM develop progressively worsening shortness of breath that initially can be relieved by an oxygen tank. Eventually, as lung tissues become more abnormal, supplemental oxygen no longer works and patients suffocate.
 Now, the only way to save those with advanced disease is a lung transplant. But even with a transplant, half of the patients die within three years; others die waiting for a donor organ. 
 Depending on how early in the course of the disease it is diagnosed, life expectancy typically ranges up to about 20 years. In years past, almost all patients with LAM died within 5 or 10 years of diagnosis, mainly because it took so long to determine what they had (asthma, emphysema and bronchitis were the common initial diagnoses). 
 Modern scanning equipment and biopsy techniques have made it easier to diagnose earlier. Hence, the longer life expectancy, at least for women in this country.
 Worldwide, more than 350,000 women are thought to have LAM. On average, Ms. Farber pointed out, ''LAM patients endure four years without a proper diagnosis, primarily because few doctors are familiar with the disease.''
 Ms. Farber admits to being very frightened by the ''lack of medical understanding of LAM.'' 
 ''It keeps me up most nights,'' she said. ''I feel like a time bomb -- as if I have been pushed out to sea on my own punctured life raft.''

Facing the Challenges
 She described a circumstance common to nearly all those facing a rare disease: ''Because the number of women diagnosed with LAM is so low, it is difficult to find corporations and drug companies interested in financially supporting research to find a treatment and cure.
 ''Instead, the funding for LAM research and the responsibility of generating greater public awareness of the disease fall upon those diagnosed with LAM, their families, friends and acquaintances. It is a tremendous challenge for us as we try to hold ourselves together, to create hope where there is little, and to keep our work and family lives intact.''
 Ms. Farber concedes that ''no one knows the pace at which my disease will progress.'' But, she added: ''What is certain is that I no longer have years ahead to apply my academic and professional training to alleviate the suffering of others. I can no longer count on being able to contribute to my family or my country before joining the majority of women with LAM who are on disability, unable to work, dependent on the state for their costly medical care and basic income.''
 Still, Ms. Farber has found something to be grateful for: ''I am lucky to be living in one of the world's most advanced academic medical centers. I am lucky to have health insurance. Also, I am lucky to be married to a loving, dedicated and well-educated husband able to gracefully and effectively navigate the medical system.
 ''Few people with rare diseases have the resources that I do. So now, while I am still physically able, I commit myself to addressing barriers to finding treatments for those diagnosed with rare diseases like LAM.''
 It is a fight she cannot walk away from.

For More Information
 The LAM Foundation, devoted to raising funds for research, also provides physician referrals, support and education for patients and families. The foundation, based in Cincinnati, can be reached at (513) 777-6889. Its Web address is lam.uc.edu.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Personal Health column in Science Times on Nov. 29, about the rare lung disease lymphangioleiomyomatosis, or LAM, included outdated information on medical advice and treatment. While the symptoms may be more noticeable in pregnant women, there is no firm evidence that pregnancy makes the disease worse, as doctors believed in the 1990's, and advice to women considering pregnancy is now given case by case.
 Nor are postmenopausal women with a diagnosis of LAM routinely advised to have their ovaries removed or to begin hormone supplements; some recent evidence suggests that estrogen therapy may worsen the disease.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stuart Bradford)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CANCER (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); WOMEN (78%); RADIOLOGY (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); OBESITY (72%); HEART DISEASE (72%); DIABETES (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); LAW SCHOOLS (62%) Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (Lam); Women; Age, Chronological

COMPANY: LAM RESEARCH CORP (54%)

TICKER: LRCX (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS332410 POWER BOILER & HEAT EXCHANGER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (54%)

PERSON: Jane E Brody

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



577 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Mount St. Helens' Quiet Eruption 

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
The satellite trucks and news reporters have long gone. The crowds of tourists have thinned. No plumes of steam and ash have risen above Mount St. Helens for nine months.
 Daniel Dzurisin, a volcanologist at the United States Geological Survey's Cascades Volcano Observatory in Vancouver, Wash., said that people often asked him when St. Helens would erupt again.
''When I tell them it's erupting today, they're surprised,'' Dr. Dzurisin said.
 The mountain has a split personality. The cataclysmic eruption on May 18, 1980, blew off the top 1,300 feet of the mountain, flattened thousands of acres of forest and killed 57 people. The current eruption, now in its 15th month, is quiet, as volcanic eruptions go. It shows no signs of turning violent -- no explosions, no ash thrown into the sky. 
 There is not even lava. Instead, what is coming out of the ground is a tube of rock that, while still hot, solidified perhaps half a 
 mile underground and then was pushed upward. The process is somewhat like holding a toothpaste tube vertically and squeezing the toothpaste out.
 Each second, about a cubic yard of new mountain -- roughly a pickup truck's worth -- is pushed to the surface, adding to a dome growing inside the crater. 
 In early months of the eruption, the cylinder of new rock, which is about 200 yards in diameter, toppled to the side as it rose. Now, the new rock is buried beneath earlier material and just pushes up the entire hill.
 ''It's looking pretty impressive,'' said Jon Major, a hydrologist at the observatory. ''There's quite a pile of rock and rubble.''
 For the scientists at the volcano observatory, the past year has been an unexpected bonanza, one that is giving them new insight into Mount St. Helens, the youngest and most active of the volcanoes in the Cascades Mountains, and perhaps into the 60 other volcanoes on the United States mainland that have erupted in the past 10,000 years and are thus presumed to have the potential to erupt again.
 Among the volcanoes in the Cascade Mountains, the long-term average is two eruptions a century.
 ''That doesn't sound like a lot,'' John Ewert, a Geological Survey scientist who was involved in assessing the risk posed by volcanic eruptions. ''But when you consider the size of the volcanoes and consider most of them are covered with snow and ice, it becomes a much more significant number.''
 An eruption can melt the snow and ice, setting off avalanches and gargantuan flows of debris rolling down the side of the mountain. But for now, the Geological Survey has few instruments keeping watch over them.
 At Mount Shasta in Northern California, there are two seismometers within 10 miles of the volcano and another four within 20 miles. ''And that's about it,'' Mr. Ewert said.
 Satellite monitoring might be able to give earlier warning of volcanic activity. For example, satellites were able to detect a swelling of the South Sister volcano in central Oregon in 2001.
 Swarms of small earthquakes -- usually the first sign of a reawakening volcano -- did not start until three years later. 
 However, the technique does not work flawlessly; it did not work at Mount St. Helens, for example.
 Many of the scientists now observing Mount St. Helens were there when it erupted in 1980 and continued to observe the mountain as a series of 16 smaller eruptions, some lasting only a few days, continued through 1986. Then the mountain fell quiet, and the scientists did not expect another eruption in their lifetimes.
 Last September, a swarm of small earthquakes started shaking the volcano. The first eruption of ash and steam rose upward a couple of weeks later, followed by a flood of reporters who crammed news conferences, asking if another blast like the one of 1980 was imminent. 
 Mount St. Helens tossed up a few more small clouds of steam and ash. The reporters went elsewhere.
 The work at Mount St. Helens in the 1980's had been under a pall of death and devastation; this time, scientists have a rare, close-up view with relatively little danger. ''On the scale of volcanic eruptions, this is a pipsqueak,'' said John Pallister, a geologist at the volcano observatory.
 Gases like carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide -- the ingredients that make volcanoes explosively deadly -- are largely missing this time. ''It's become an incredible scientific experiment,'' Dr. Pallister said. ''It's just a great place to be working right now.''
 Past eruptions of Mount St. Helens have varied widely. Sometimes it has gone up violently, like in 1980. Other times, the lava flowed out as hot liquid, similar to eruptions at Kilauea in Hawaii.
 New magma from deep inside the earth tends to be full of volcanic gases, so the lack of volcanic gases suggests that the volcano is just emptying out molten rock leftover from the 1980's, like soda that has lost its fizz. The chemical composition of the rock is highly similar to rock from the 1980's, offering more support for that hypothesis.
 The question is why magma that has been quietly sitting underground for nearly two decades would start erupting again now.
 The scientists say that new magma may have risen from the mantle, pushing the old magma upward. Perhaps heavy rains in August last year percolated downward, hit the hot rocks under the volcano and changed into steam that weakened and broke apart the rocks, allowing lava to rise again.
 ''That could have been the straw that broke the camel's back,'' Dr. Major said. ''We don't know for sure.''
 Beneath the mountain, the magma rises through fractures in the rock from a fairly small magma chamber about five miles below. Beneath that chamber is probably another pipe that taps the deeper mantle.
 As the current eruption empties the conduit, scientists have detected a slight deflation of the flanks of the volcano, though not quite as much as predicted, which suggests that the chamber has partially been refilled by new magma. 
 The composition of the new magma could help tell what might happen next.
 Just a couple of weeks ago, Dr. Pallister found the first direct signs of new magma -- a small blob of glass embedded within the erupted rock. 
 The glass is presumably new, hot magma that cooled quickly when it came into contact with the older, cooler magma. ''Perhaps there's something different going on,'' Dr. Pallister said. But so far, at least, ''it's not a major contribution,'' he said.
 The mix of minerals in the rock can also help tell whether the magma is rising quickly or slowly. As the eruption continues, so do the earthquakes that announced the reawakening of Mount St. Helens, about one a minute, more than a million in the past 14 months. 
 The earthquakes are shallow, occurring within a few hundred yards of the surface, and small, magnitude 0.5 to 1.5. ''They're so regular, we've been calling them drumbeats,'' Dr. Dzurisin said.
 One time, Dr. Dzurisin said, he stood still for an hour trying to sense them himself. While about half of them are too small to notice, he said: ''In an hour, I felt 23 earthquakes. It's not a violent shaking. It's a very subtle thing. You know something is moving, something is going on.'' 
 Some of the quakes are accompanied by a booming noise, he said.
 The sides of the rock rising out of the ground have deep scratches, which make geologists think that the rock gets stuck in the conduit, and then, as pressure builds up below, slides upward and sets off a small earthquake. 
 ''The geology is staring us in the face,'' said Seth Moran, a seismologist at the Cascades Volcano Observatory. At other volcanoes, scientists have argued that similar shakings have been caused by gases vibrating in cracks in the earth, almost like an organ pipe. 
 ''There's probably some combination of the two in play,'' Dr. Moran said.
 Another mystery at Mount St. Helens is that of the disappearing glacier. After the earlier series of eruptions ending in 1986, a glacier started growing inside the crater, reaching a volume of 120 million cubic meters. The new volcanic dome split the glacier in half and may have melted about one-fifth to one-quarter of the ice and snow.
 But the amount of water flowing out of the crater is the same as before. 
 ''There's no perceptible increase in the outflow,'' said Dr. Major, the hydrologist. The water could be percolating downward into the groundwater -- ''the mountain acting as a big sponge,'' he said -- and flowing out of springs outside the crater.
 Scientists are not ready to predict what Mount St. Helens, or any volcano, will do next. The current eruption at Mount St. Helens, which has already calmed somewhat compared with a year ago, may slow further and stop. Or it may continue at the current pace for decades.
 Or it may do something else.
 ''In some ways,'' said Kenneth McGee, another volcano observatory scientist, who has been keeping close watch on the gases coming out of the volcano, ''predicting the end of an eruption is more difficult than predicting the beginning.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An illustration and a caption with an article in Science Times last Tuesday about the continuing quiet eruption at Mount St. Helens in Washington misidentified a tectonic plate involved in the volcanic activity. The mountain sits above the boundary of the Juan de Fuca plate and the North American plate, not the Pacific and North American plates. (The collision of the two plates sets the volcanic activity in motion.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mount St. Helens, its second dome visible, is being shaken constantly by earthquakes. (Photo Courtesy of John S. Pallister/U.S.G.S. Cascades Volcano Observatory)(pg. F4)
(David Constantine, Mika Grondahl/The New York Times)(pg. F1)Chart/Diagram: ''The Evolution Of a Volcano''Scientists have spent the last year studying the slowly erupting Mount St. Helens to gain a better understanding of how it works and how it has changed since the cataclysmic eruption in 1980.Lava -- In the 1980's the lava, although quite viscous, was still fluid enough to flow short distances. In contrast, the new lava has solidified in the uppermost part of the conduit, forming virtually solid masses known as lava spines.Pockets of magma -- The 1980's eruptions came from small batches of magma that stalled between the main chamber and the surface. Scientists think much of the recent eruption is from molten rock left over from then.Conduits -- The pipes, really discontinuous planes, through which magma is delivered to the surface. Scientists believe the current eruption is from a new conduit.Roof of magma chamber -- In the last 20 years, the roof of the chamber has migrated upward, allowing magma to rise more than a mile closer to the surface.Magma chamber -- Magma is stored here for hundreds to thousands of years.Magmatic mush and hot, plastic wall rocks -- Zone of partly crystallized magma that is still hot and pliable.Feeder dike in fault zone -- Scientists believe that new magma may have risen from the lower crust and mantle, pushing the old magma upward.Magma source -- Mount St. Helens sits above the collision boundary where the Pacific tectonic plate slams into the North American plate and is pushed below. The heat of that collision melts the rocks to magma, which rises to feed volcanoes in the Cascades Mountains.New Lava DomeShortly after it began erupting in October 2004, a new lava dome appeared on the south side of the Mount St. Helens crater.Diagram of Mount St. Helens shows the individual parts of the volcano
old and new.(Sources by John S. Pallister, Steve Schilling, Jim Messerich and Ren Thompson, United States Geological Survey)(pg. F1)Chart/Diagram: ''Building a Mountain''Mount St. Helens has been erupting for more than a year. During this time, a new lava dome (dotted line) has arisen and spread across the south side of volcano's crater.Illustrations highlight the lava dome of Mount St. Helens in October 2004, February 2005, July 2005 and October 2005.Graph tracks Moderate earthquakes under Mount St. Helens* since Jan. 2004.(Sources by Pacific Northwest Seismograph Network
 photo from Cascades Volcano Observatory, United States Geological Survey)(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); VOLCANIC ASH CLOUDS (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (75%); AVALANCHES (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%) Volcanoes; Glaciers; Rock and Stone; Ash; Volcanoes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (93%) Cascades Volcano Observatory; United States Geological Survey

PERSON: Kenneth Chang

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Mount St Helens (Washington); Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



578 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Shares Slip on Worries of Heavy Discounting in Stores

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday as energy shares, including those of Exxon Mobil, tumbled on a big drop in oil prices and retailers lost ground on worries that a strong start to the holiday season may be fleeting. 
 The setback, which stalled one of the market's longest winning streaks of the year, also followed a report showing a bigger-than-expected decline in existing-home sales, which fed fears that consumer confidence might slip and hurt spending.
 Even though Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, reported a better-than-expected beginning to the holiday shopping season, investors worried that deep discounting drove store traffic at many retailers, raising concerns about profits. 
 Wal-Mart shares fell 49 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $50 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 40.90 points, or 0.37 percent, to 10,890.72. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 10.79 points, or 0.85 percent, to 1,257.46. The Nasdaq composite index was down 23.64 points, or 1.04 percent, to 2,239.37. 
 A report from the National Association of Realtors showed that existing-home sales fell in October to an annualized rate of 7.09 million units, compared with analysts' expectation of 7.17 million. 
 In October, there were 2.9 million homes for sale, enough to keep the market supplied for 4.9 months, up from 4.6 months in September and the most since June 2003, when there was a five-month supply.
 ''Probably the most worrisome thing was the existing-home sales,'' said Todd Clark, director of stock trading at Nollenberger Capital Partners in San Francisco. 
 The drug maker Merck also weighed on blue-chip stocks, losing $1.42, or 5 percent, to $29.56 a share as investors doubted that an extensive overhaul effort, announced yesterday, would help Merck's earnings next year. Merck announced as many as 7,000 job cuts. 
 Doubts about holiday buying also took a toll on the technology sector, with shares of eBay, the online auctioneer, falling $1.34, or 3 percent, to $45.37 on the Nasdaq. 
 Giri Cherukuri, head trader at OakBrook Investments, said, ''I wouldn't read too much into today's downdraft, but how holiday sales come out is going to be key, and that would drive the market.'' 
 The Dow Jones home-builders index registered the biggest one-day percentage decline in nearly 3 weeks, falling 3.6 percent, and the Standard & Poor's retail index shed 1.6 percent. 
 Among home builders, shares of KB Home fell $2.27, or 3 percent, to $69.63 a share on the New York Stock Exchange, and shares of D. R. Horton fell $1.05, also 3 percent, to $35.57. 
 January crude oil futures ended down $1.35, to $57.36 a barrel. Gold prices surged $6.10, to $498.30.
 Interest rates were lower with the 10-year Treasury note rising 8/32, to 101 25/32, and the yield, which moves inversely to the price, falling to 4.40 percent from 4.43 percent Friday. 
 Among energy stocks, Exxon Mobil fell $1.37, or 2 percent, to $58.74, and Chevron was off $1.36, also 2 percent, to $57.18.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auctions of three-month and six-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.014	97.899	High Rate	 3.900	 4.155	Investment Rate	 3.994	 4.303	Low Rate	 3.870	 4.120	Median Rate	 3.885	 4.140	Total applied for	$48,539,298	$43,385,442	Accepted	$24,474,078	$22,484,822	Noncompetitive	$1,680,893	$1,353,967	

Both issues are dated Dec. 01, 2005. The three-month bills mature on March 01, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on June 01, 2006.<TOLS.TABLEINFO>
 </TOLS.TABLEINFO>

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from October through November. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (60%) 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (84%); MERCK & CO INC (82%); WAL-MART STORES INC (72%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); D R HORTON INC (54%); KB HOME CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (84%); MRK (PAR) (82%); MRK (NYSE) (82%); WMT (NYSE) (72%); XOM (NYSE) (58%); DHI (NYSE) (54%); KBH (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (72%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (54%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (54%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



579 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; The Line of Sand Gets Thinner; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Early Storms Erode Jersey Shore's Defenses for Winter

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

DATELINE: BEACH HAVEN, N.J. 

 BODY:
Robert Pacicco has owned the two-story house on the end of Merivale Avenue for a decade, but the Atlantic Ocean now seems poised to move in for the winter and beyond. Last winter, the waves broke over the foundation slab, from which the house rises on stilts. This year, half the pilings under the foundation have been exposed by the tides.
 ''Last year, a northeaster took out all my land,'' Mr. Pacicco said. ''I can't keep putting tens of thousands of dollars in every year to replenish it.''
 The early large northeasters that hit the Jersey Shore and ended on Oct. 14 and 25 have made residents and environmental officials fear that so much sand has been swept away from beaches that they will not be able to blunt the impact of winter storms on homes, buildings and roads. [A third storm struck on Nov. 22, but did not cause significant damage, state environmental officials said.] 
 There are usually six to nine such storms each winter, blowing in from the northeast and often causing more damage than hurricanes because they last longer, through up to five high tides.
 ''These two early storms in October put us in a very precarious position,'' said Dave Rosenblatt, administrator of the office of engineering and construction for the State Department of Environmental Protection. As he visited a beach at the end of Princeton Avenue in Mantoloking, he held two photographs: one taken on Sept. 9 showing the beach reaching 42 yards from the base of the dunes to the water, and another taken on Oct. 25 showing the same beach essentially gone.
 ''Places in Atlantic County, Cape May County and Long Beach Island have had similar dramatic impacts,'' Mr. Rosenblatt said. The Oct. 25 storm alone shaved four to five vertical feet of sand off beaches in Loveladies, Harvey Cedars, North Beach, Surf City, Ship Bottom, Long Beach, Brant Beach, Beach Haven, Holgate and Atlantic City. 
 Mr. Rosenblatt said it was possible that homes could be damaged in a major storm this winter. 
 Beaches narrow and widen over the year, varying with each season. As fall settles over the coast, the tourists and summer residents recede, traffic lights up and down Long Beach Island flash a constant orange, and miles of sand gradually slip into the Atlantic. What remains is hacked away by the short, choppy waves of winter storms. But the beaches widen with the warm weather, as the longer, gentler spring and summer swells deposit sand on them. 
 Some beaches on the shore, however, are entering the winter storm season without the summer's surplus of sand. According to the environmental department's report on the storm that ended on Oct. 14, some Long Beach Island beaches ''lost any natural protection that built up during summer months, leaving many areas vulnerable to storm surge and direct wave attacks.''
 Some of that sand moves back in after a storm, but natural forces do not repair dune damage until the summer, Mr. Rosenblatt said. ''I think some beaches are more vulnerable than they would normally be,'' he said. 
 Over all, the state's beaches are shrinking, with this year's losses part of a larger war. Tides have risen 16 inches in the past century, and the rivers have not deposited enough sediment to replenish the sand, said Norbert Psuty, a coastal scientist for Rutgers who is based at Sandy Hook. 
 A Princeton University study this month has projected that global warming will contribute to a two-foot rise in sea levels over the next 100 years, which would push the New Jersey shoreline back about 240 feet. 
 ''Communities have to be prepared to respond actively,'' said one of the authors, Michael Oppenheimer, a professor of geosciences and international affairs. ''In some places, retreat will be the right thing to do, or beach restoration or hardening the coast may be chosen.'' Sea walls, which protect the property directly behind them, often cause worse erosion nearby, he said.
 Neighboring states have also faced erosion problems. In New York, beaches and dunes on the South Shore of Long Island and bluffs on the island's North Shore sustained significant erosion leading into the winter.
 In Connecticut, where the beaches along Long Island Sound are better protected from erosion, the state completed a $2 million restoration of Hammonasset Beach State Park in Madison, where most of the sand of the west beach had been eroded away. The restored beach did not suffer much damage in the October northeasters, said Dennis Schain, a spokesman for the state. 
 Likewise, federal, state and local officials are battling nature to protect New Jersey's beaches, the real estate behind them, and the tourist dollars they draw. 
 This month, President Bush signed the 2006 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, in which New Jersey will receive $32.7 million for beach projects, more than any other state, said Howard Marlowe, the legislative coordinator for the American Shore and Beach Preservation Association, a nonprofit group. The money will finance beach replenishment projects on Long Beach Island and in Avalon, among other places.
 The Army Corps of Engineers said that in the past 20 years, $195 million had been spent to pump sand back onto eroded beaches in Monmouth County between Sea Bright and Manasquan, a process known as beach replenishment to its supporters and beach fill to its critics. The beach reconstruction project is one of the largest in the nation's history, and calls for additional sand to be added to beaches approximately every six years. Other Army Corps projects have replenished Wrightsville Beach and Carolina Beach in North Carolina and Miami Beach in Florida. 
 The 50-year Army Corps program in Monmouth County is expected to cost $800 million, with 65 percent provided by the federal government, and the rest divided between state and local governments. So far, 22 million cubic yards of sand has been pumped over 18 miles of beach, creating beaches 100 feet wide.
 Monmouth County beaches did not lose much sand in the October storms, state officials said. 
 Farther south, as part of another project, the Army Corps began adding $500,000 worth of fill to the beaches at the south end of Harvey Cedars. The restoration could not have come at a better time, said the mayor, Jonathan Oldham. 
 ''If that was not happening right now, we would be extremely vulnerable,'' Mr. Oldham said. ''We probably had enough for one more storm.'' 
 Critics of beach replenishment say the Army Corps program has destroyed habitats both where the sand is harvested -- usually from offshore sandbars -- and where it is deposited; has ruined surfing and fishing opportunities; and amounts to an expensive public subsidy of private beachfront property with little public access. 
 ''People don't realize you're creating a desert underwater when you do beach replenishment,'' said Jeffrey Tittel, executive director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club. ''We'd be better off raising the houses or moving them back, to protect the coast, instead of trying to squeeze in every last house on every last inch of property.'' 
 John Weber, the East Coast regional manager of the Surfrider Foundation, a nonprofit ocean preservation group, also advocates pulling development back from the beachfront. ''Beach fill projects have had a tendency recently to give rise to further silly development,'' he said. ''They kind of encourage the powers that be that they can build even closer.'' 
 But Noreen Bodman, president of the Jersey Shore Partnership, a membership organization that supports beach restoration, called the $25 million a year dedicated to beach replenishment from real estate transfer fees ''a good investment'' in the beaches. Tourism is the state's second largest business sector after pharmaceuticals, taking in $30 billion to $32 billion in revenues, about half from the shore counties. Tourism results in $2 billion in state taxes, according to state commerce officials.
 Beach replenishment has had environmental benefits, Ms. Bodman said, including the return of the endangered piping plovers to some beaches where sand has been pumped. And state officials say efforts are under way to increase public access to rebuilt beaches.
 ''It's a balance, with the economy and ecology,'' she said. ''Everything in life is a balance.''
 Stephen P. Leatherman, director of the Laboratory for Coastal Research at Florida International University in Miami, said New Jersey beaches erode about three or four feet a year, higher than the East Coast average of two to three feet, because New Jersey gets unusually high waves when northeasters stall over it, and because the clay soils under the state's sand have a tendency to dissolve. The state is unlucky to be heading into the cold weather with badly eroded beaches. 
 ''The bad news is, normally northeasters don't pick up more until later, with January, February and March when we tend to get the biggest ones,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Erosion has exposed pilings under the foundation of a house in Beach Haven, N.J. Sand has been piled in front to protect it. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Sand is moved onto the beach in a restoration project in Harvey Cedars, N.J., where storms chewed up much of the shoreline in October. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart/Map:A study by the Richard Stockton Coastal Research Center estimates that the Mantoloking beach lost more than nine million cubic feet of sand during the storm of Oct. 11-14. Damage left the dunes and remaining beach vulnerable to a second storm on Oct. 25.Diagram of the beaches at 1117 Ocean Avenue and Princeton Avenue.Map of New Jersey highlighting the aforementioned places.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); BEACHES (89%); EROSION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); HURRICANES (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); WEATHER (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%) 

PERSON: Tina Kelley

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jer00213400; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



580 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Seeks Flexibility On Job Rules

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
With two weeks to go before its contract with 33,738 subway and bus workers expires, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is asking for more flexibility in work assignments, tighter sick leave rules and less substantial health care and pension benefits for future employees. 
 In one idea that has already begun to raise hackles from subway workers, the authority wants to create a new ''subway operator'' job that would encompass the tasks of the train operator and conductor -- jobs that have been separate since the development of the steam engine in the 19th century. 
The authority also wants its new station ''customer assistance agents'' -- workers who used to sit inside station booths selling tokens and now stand outside the booths answering questions -- to dust and wipe down the booths, empty trash cans and do other ''cleaning functions'' around MetroCard vending machines.
 The demands are part of the first specific proposal by the authority, which is negotiating with Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union of America over a new contract that would last through 2008.
 The current contract, reached in 2002, expires on Dec. 15. There have been four negotiating sessions, and a fifth is scheduled for Thursday, but neither side has offered numbers for wage levels -- which are at the top of most employees' concerns. 
 Instead, the authority has focused so far on ideas to increase productivity and decrease absenteeism, according to negotiating documents provided to The New York Times by people taking part in the talks.
 The authority wants to broaden long-established job descriptions that limit what tasks employees may perform. It views the job classifications as rigid, even archaic, while the union has insisted that its members be protected from being reassigned outside the work for which they were hired.
 New York City Transit, the authority subsidiary that runs subways and city buses, wants the ability to assign subway and bus cleaners to remove graffiti, change light bulbs, clean the electronic card readers on turnstiles and fare boxes and even fuel the buses.
 The authority is also seeking to ''improve employee availability'' by cutting in half, to six days, the annual number of days of sick leave accrued during a new worker's first five years on the job. Such a change would require approval by the Legislature. 
 The authority's management contends that sick leave is often abused. The union has countered that many workers already face onerous documentation requirements. Some are required to produce doctor's notes and are subjected to unannounced home visits. Failure to substantiate sick leave can result in discipline.
 The proposals represent a tough stand by the authority. It also wants to require new workers to pay health insurance premiums and to create a new level of pension benefits for future employees, who would have to reach age 62 before they could draw full benefits, compared with age 55 for most workers now.
 Ed Watt, the secretary-treasurer of Local 100, said the authority's proposals were unrealistic and intended mainly as a threat. The union has scheduled labor rallies, including one today, and a general membership meeting for Dec. 10 at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. 
 Tom Kelly, an authority spokesman, would say only: ''Negotiations are proceeding and meetings taking place all the time. We are confident a settlement will be reached before the contract expiration on Dec. 15.'' 
 The authority is represented by its director of labor relations, Gary J. Dellaverson; his counterpart at New York City Transit, Ralph J. Agritelley, manages leave and discipline issues. The union is represented by two lawyers, Walter M. Meginniss Jr. and Arthur Z. Schwartz, and by its president, Roger Toussaint.
 Mr. Toussaint, 49, won an election in December 2000 to lead the union with promises of militancy, after the former president, Willie James, was criticized for making too many concessions during 1999 negotiations.
 In 2002, Mr. Toussaint first demanded an 8 percent wage increase in each of the next three years, but ultimately settled on a pay freeze in the first year and increases of 3 percent in each of the next two years. The union accepted some productivity measures; the authority dropped its demand for more pension contributions from workers and agreed to overhaul its disciplinary system.
 Mr. Toussaint has avoided threatening a strike this year, although he has spoken favorably about a seven-day strike by Philadelphia transit workers in a sister union, Local 234. That strike ended on Nov. 7 with an agreement on four straight years of 3 percent pay increases. 
 The city is not taking any chances. The Office of Emergency Management has updated its 2002 strike preparations, a development reported in The Daily News yesterday. The plans include prohibiting cars without passengers from entering Manhattan and allowing taxis to pick up multiple passengers for separate trips. 
 Martin S. Goodman, a member of the Local 100 executive board, said workers were struggling to make ends meet because the cost of housing had risen much faster than inflation and outpaced the modest wage increases of the last contract.
 ''I think the rank and file are bitter about the first-year wage freeze,'' he said. ''They want to see a real fight, if that's what it takes, to get a decent raise.'' 
 Joshua B. Freeman, a labor historian at the City University of New York Graduate Center, said he believed most members still had confidence that Mr. Toussaint would represent them vigorously in the talks, but he cautioned: ''The union's like Hollywood, where you're as only good as your last picture. You're only as good as your last contract.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TRAINS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); SICK LEAVE (89%); VANDALISM (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (78%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (74%); APPROVALS (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (62%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA (82%) Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Transport Workers Union

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2005



581 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: A Warning Of Trade Suits Over Farming

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
A failure by the United States and the European Union to make significant progress toward reducing agricultural subsidies in trade talks in Hong Kong could bring a legal challenges on both sides of the Atlantic, trade and agricultural experts say.
 In a report to be released Wednesday, Oxfam International highlights three American commodity crops vulnerable to lawsuits and eight agricultural products in the European Union that could be sources of cases.
Several independent experts agree with Oxfam's assertion that complaints could be brought against the United States' corn, rice and sorghum programs, while the 25-country European Union could be challenged on subsidies for tomatoes, tobacco, butter, wine and spirits, citrus juices and processed fruits like canned peaches and pears. 
 According to the report, the subsidies for the 11 crops and products noted by Oxfam total $9.3 billion for the United States out of the country's $19.5 billion in subsidy payments, and $4.2 billion for the European Union out of $44.8 billion, on an annual basis. 
 Oxfam, a nongovernmental advocacy group involved in world poverty issues, has lobbied strenuously for rich countries to reduce agricultural subsidies so that developing countries in Africa and elsewhere can better compete and grow their economies. But several outside experts agree that more cases are likely if meetings of the World Trade Organization next month in Hong Kong do not produce a substantial agreement toward reducing so-called trade-distorting subsidies.
 Brazil's successful challenges to the European Union's sugar program and parts of the United States' cotton program have opened the door for more challenges before the W.T.O., trade experts say. The European Union unveiled an overhauled sugar program last week that cuts support prices 36 percent.
 ''Those cases point out some of the vulnerabilities that both the E.U. and the U.S. have with some of their present farm programs,'' said Clayton Yeutter, a former secretary of agriculture and United States trade representative. If negotiations do not produce progress, ''it would not be surprising to see additional W.T.O. dispute settlement challenges of this nature,'' he said.
 The talks in Hong Kong are part of a round of trade discussions that began in 2001 in Doha, Qatar. They were termed a ''development round,'' meant to lift the world's poor nations out of poverty by giving their farmers better access to developed world markets. 
 American trade officials said on Tuesday that they could not comment on the accuracy of the Oxfam estimates, but that the United States is trying to eliminate the kinds of farm subsidies that could run afoul of the W.T.O. rules. 
 ''The very subsidies that they're concerned about are the ones that we're proposing to eliminate,'' said Christin T. Baker, a spokeswoman for the United States trade representative, Rob Portman. 
 Anthony Gooch, a spokesman for the European Commission in Washington, said he could not comment on the Oxfam report until European officials had a chance to study it. 
 Officials from the United States, Europe and major developing countries, like Brazil, are trying to salvage a framework before the talks in Hong Kong. Mr. Portman will leave for Geneva on Thursday for talks that will last until Sunday.
 In recent weeks, preparatory trade talks stalled after the European Union failed to match an offer by the United States to lower some trade-distorting subsidies by 60 percent over five years and eliminate them by 2013. Oxfam and other advocates of reducing subsidies have called even the American proposal inadequate and misleading.
 The United States and the European Union are still far apart on agricultural trade barriers. The United States proposal calls for much deeper cuts in farm tariffs than European officials have been willing to support. And large developing countries are reluctant to make commitments on opening markets for services and industrial goods unless the wealthy countries do more to open their farm markets. 
 In the last year, some countries have threatened legal action against American farm programs. Uruguay has been preparing a challenge to American rice subsidies, while Canadian corn growers have been clamoring for their government to fight the sale of American corn in Canada at prices they say are lower than the cost of production. 
 The Canadian International Trade Tribunal concluded two weeks ago that there was ''a reasonable indication that the dumping and subsidizing of unprocessed grain corn have caused injury to the domestic industry.'' Mike Johanns, the United States agriculture secretary, and Mr. Portman said in a joint response that ''U.S. corn exports pose no threat to Canadian corn growers.''
 The United States corn program is more vulnerable than ever to a trade challenge, trade experts say. Huge harvests the last two years and the lowest prices since the late 1990's are resulting in record subsidy payments to farmers. The United States paid $26.8 billion in corn subsidies the last five years, the most for any single American farm program. 
 ''If there were ever a time for another country to go after our corn program, this is it,'' said Kenneth Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, a research organization based in Washington that has criticized farm subsidies. ''It is exactly the kind of conditions that prompted Brazil to go after our cotton program.''
 Eleven corn exporters, including Argentina, Ecuador and South Africa, could have legitimate cases as well, the Oxfam report concluded. And in the case of rice, Mexico, India and Thailand are among 13 countries that could file cases against the United States. Without a formal suit, Mexico has struggled to prevent rice from the United States from being sold at what it says are unfair prices that are damaging Mexican producers. A World Trade Organization panel ruled on Tuesday that Mexico unfairly imposed antidumping tariffs on American rice in 2002.
 While the European Union also has programs laden with heavy subsidy payments for farmers of traditional crops like sugar, it is at least as vulnerable for programs designed to encourage the processing of fruits and vegetables into finished products, trade experts said. The European Union provides millions of euros in such subsidies. 
 So far, no formal challenges on major crops have been filed since the Brazilian won its cases in 2004 and this year. Pedro de Camargo Neto, a former lead farm trade negotiator for Brazil, who led his country's cotton and sugar cases, said he is surprised other countries have not capitalized on the Brazilian precedents. 
 Fear of retaliation could be part of the reason, Mr. Camargo said in a telephone interview. ''Governments are afraid to challenge the Empire.''
 In one case, Walter Bastian, the United States deputy assistant secretary of commerce, met with Uruguayan officials in August and persuaded them to wait until after the Hong Kong meetings to file a rice complaint. 
 Most countries see trade negotiations as a faster road to agricultural reform than litigation, which is costly and can drag on for years. But the failure of the Doha talks will probably lead more developing countries to use the W.T.O.'s dispute settlement process, said Gawain Kripke, senior policy adviser for Oxfam. ''This hasn't been in their toolbox in the past,'' he said. ''Brazil has shown that these cases are winnable.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Huge corn harvests the last two years and the lowest prices since the late 1990's are resulting in record subsidy payments to American farmers. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); SUGAR FARMING (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); OXFAM INTERNATIONAL (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); HONG KONG (94%); QATAR (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



582 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Memo; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Upbeat Signs Hold Cautions For the Future

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Gasoline is cheaper than it was before Hurricane Katrina slammed into New Orleans. Consumer confidence jumped last month and new- home sales hit a record. The stock market has been rising. Even the nation's beleaguered factories seem headed for a happy holiday season.
 By most measures, the economy appears to be doing fine. No, scratch that, it appears to be booming.
But as always with the United States economy, it is not quite that simple.
 For every encouraging sign, there is an explanation. Consumer confidence is bouncing back from what were arguably some of its worst readings in years. Gasoline prices -- the national average is now $2.15, according to the Energy Information Administration -- have fallen because higher prices held down demand and Gulf Coast supplies have been slowly restored. 
 The latest reading on home sales, released yesterday, contradicts most recent measures of housing activity, which generally indicate a slowdown. And, yes, manufacturers' fortunes are on the mend, but few besides airplane makers are celebrating.
 It all means the economy is likely to end the year with a splash. But before you splurge on a new car, consider this: Many economists do not expect the party to continue, especially if the Federal Reserve continues taking the punchbowl away and raises interest rates. That could further slow the housing market, damp consumer spending and crimp corporate profits.
 Indeed, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said yesterday that 2005 growth would most likely settle at 3.6 percent, down from 4.2 percent in 2004. The organization also forecast 2006 growth at 3.5 percent, but other economists think that may be too optimistic. 
 ''The two major concerns are the extent of slowdown in housing and how it can feed into growth and consumer spending,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc., a research firm in New York.
 Many analysts, including Mr. Shapiro, say a housing slowdown is already under way. Along with rising interest rates and anemic job growth, any such drop-off could sap the economy next year -- by just how much is still subject to debate.
 Americans have taken advantage of historically low mortgage rates to buy homes, refinance existing loans and borrow money for renovations or other household needs, all of them important and substantial spurs to spending, Mr. Shapiro said. 00
 While neither he nor others expect that activity to dry up, even a modest tapering off could knock growth down a peg or two. Mr. Shapiro, for one, says growth could drop from 3.5 percent in 2005 to 3.2 percent in 2006.
 The average interest rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage was 6.28 percent last week, up from a low of 5.53 percent in June, according to Freddie Mac, the housing-finance company.
 The Commerce Department said yesterday that new-home sales jumped 13 percent in October, to an annual pace of 1.42 million, a record. But that contradicted earlier data showing sales of existing homes slowing, construction activity easing, mortgage applications falling and confidence declining among home builders.
 Two possible explanations for the record pace of new-home sales are that buyers see a final opportunity to purchase a new house before interest rates go up again, and they are taking advantage of sales incentives that some home builders are now offering. But not everyone agrees.
 ''I basically have a wait-and-see attitude with some healthy suspicion about this report,'' said David F. Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders. ''Either there is something that all of those other reports are not telling us, or this will get revised.''
 In another seemingly upbeat report, the Conference Board, a research group supported by business, said consumer confidence jumped 16 percent. Still, it is below the pre-Katrina level. And the Commerce Department said orders for durable goods -- big-ticket items that last more than three years -- jumped 3.4 percent, but most of that increase was concentrated in military and commercial planes.
 In addition to housing, the Federal Reserve and businesses will have a big part in setting the economy's pace next year -- the Fed through interest rates and companies by their hiring decisions.
 There is great speculation about how much more the Fed, where Ben S. Bernanke is expected to succeed Alan Greenspan as chairman in February, will raise its benchmark short-term rate, now at 4 percent, before Mr. Greenspan leaves.
 There is also the question of whether Mr. Bernanke will feel compelled to prove his inflation-fighting mettle by nudging them higher still. The question may seem like splitting hairs, especially when the debate is whether the rate will be 4.5 percent or 4.75 percent, but it certainly has investors' attention.
 The recent rally in the bond market, which is considered a haven in periods of economic stress, indicates that many investors are betting that the Fed ''is likely to overshoot in its tightening,'' Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers, wrote in a note to clients.
 A harder question, and one that could greatly influence policy makers, is whether business will pick up any of the slack if consumers are no longer spending as much.
 So far the evidence is inconclusive.
 After adding an average of 202,000 jobs a month for the first seven months of the year, companies hit a slow patch late in the summer. In August, businesses created just 148,000 jobs; that was followed by a decline of 8,000 in September after Katrina. And just when economists expected a big bounce back in October, the Labor Department reported a net increase of just 56,000 jobs.
 Analysts are eagerly awaiting the Labor Department's next jobs report, out Friday, and hoping the recent weakness will prove temporary. But they worry that job creation may turn out to be disappointing because of deep-rooted concerns about thinning profit margins, caused by, among other things, high energy costs.
 ''This is only a fear that has sprung up recently,'' said Mr. Shapiro of Maria Fiorini Ramirez.
 Economists expect 220,000 new jobs will be created, according to a survey by Bloomberg News.
 Another hard-to-measure factor that could have a positive bearing on both businesses and consumers is rebuilding activity in the Gulf Coast and parts of Florida. The reconstruction that accompanies major disasters has been known to have a greater economic impact than the initial series of shocks.
 Many analysts say a housing-led slowdown is likely to be delayed until the second half of 2006 because billions of dollars that the federal government and insurance companies are starting to pump into hurricane-affected regions will make up for softer consumer spending.
 ''That is going to push up production activity into the first half of the year,'' said Michael C. Fratantoni, an economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association, which expects 3.7 percent economic growth in 2006, up from 3.6 percent in 2005. ''The second half of the year, we see somewhat of a drop-off.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Up for Now''Consumer confidence and sales of new homes jumped in October, but the economic picture in 2006 remains uncertain.Graph tracks Consumer confidence Index, 1985 = 100, New orders for durable goods, New-home sales annual pace and Dow Jones industrial average for 2005. (Sources by The Conference Board
Commerce Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (84%); GASOLINE MARKETS (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); GASOLINE PRICES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (56%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



583 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; By the Hour, Your Chariot Awaits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1691 words

HEADLINE: A Few Keyboard Clicks Put Car Sharers on Wheels

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For a while, Gabe Klein could easily keep track of every car in his territory simply by sticking pins on the wall-size map of the Washington metropolitan area in his office. No longer.
 ''It was nice to have a visual on the wall when we had 25 or 30 cars, but not with 200 cars in 130 locations,'' said Mr. Klein, a regional vice president for ZipCar, one of two companies trying to succeed at providing a relatively new service of short-term auto rentals in urban centers.
So the pins remain where they were last inserted months ago, and ''we now have monthly maps of all our cars'' on computer screens, he said, often overlaid with demographic and traffic data.
 Imported to the United States in the late 1990's from Europe by a group of environmentally conscious entrepreneurs, the concept of renting cars by the hour -- known as car sharing -- has become increasingly popular in a handful of major cities, particularly among young people. 
 The challenge now facing ZipCar and Flexcar, its rival, is to see whether they can turn the idea into a serious profit-making enterprise as they expand beyond the eight cities where they now provide such services.
 The business certainly looks promising to Stephen M. Case, a founder of America Online, who has moved on to a career as a venture capitalist. Mr. Case bought Flexcar after using one of its cars in Washington this year. He has recruited Lee A. Iacocca and a former chief executive of Avis, Joseph V. Vittoria, to serve on its board.
 ZipCar has attracted just as much attention. It recently received a $10 million investment from Benchmark Capital, a Silicon Valley venture capital firm. It plans to use the money to start service in Chicago and a handful of other cities.
 Car sharing is not like renting a car from Hertz or Avis. Customers first become members at a cost of $35 to $50 a year. Cars are reserved online or by telephone at rates that start at $7.50 an hour for Flexcar and $8.50 an hour for ZipCar. For a full 24 hours, the price is about $60, including the cost of insurance and fuel.
 Most transactions, ideally, involve no human interaction between members and the companies. Customers let themselves into cars, which are parked in garages, streets and alleys, using cards similar to the security devices workers use to enter office buildings. They return cars to the same locations, and charges are billed to credit cards already on file.
 ZipCar says it has 50,000 members and 900 cars in four markets: Boston, New York, Washington and San Francisco. 
 Flexcar says it is nearing 40,000 members and has 500 cars, serving customers in Seattle; Portland, Ore.; Washington; San Francisco; Los Angeles; and San Diego.
 While tiny, both appear to be growing rapidly. According to researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, the two companies and a handful of nonprofit car sharing groups around the country had 76,420 members and 1,192 cars nationwide, as of August.
 That is inconsequential compared with the $15 billion rental-car business, but the companies are adding thousands of members a month, and in some cases starting to make money.
 ZipCar says it first broke even in 2004 and is on pace to more than double its revenue to $15 million in 2005, from $7 million in 2004. The company had revenue of $4 million in 2003.
 Flexcar is not yet profitable; officials declined to provide revenue figures. Mr. Case likened the company to a young AOL and predicted that it could have a million members by 2010.
 ''We have a business plan, but I am not focused on short-term profit,'' Mr. Case said during an interview in his office here. ''That's part of the reason why I funded this through my own capital. We are not in a build-to-flip mode. We are in a build-to-last mode.''
 Car sharing started in Europe more than a decade ago and established a profitable niche. But its record in the United States has been sketchy. Hertz tested and abandoned an operation in San Francisco in 2000; it says it has little interest in the market.
 Still, others have continued to try and have been helped by a series of opportune developments.
 Wireless and computer technologies have become inexpensive and reliable enough that companies can easily monitor vehicles and rent them by using a staff of a few dozen people. City governments seeking to reduce traffic are helping the companies by providing free or subsidized parking and by not charging them hefty car-rental taxes. Some government agencies in Philadelphia; Berkeley, Calif.; and Portland are using the cars to reduce their municipal fleets.
 At the same time, a class of sophisticated urbanites has taken notice, especially after gasoline prices soared past $3 a gallon in September.
 But the latest experiments could just as easily have failed.
 Scott Griffith, a former Boeing official who became chief executive of ZipCar in 2003, said a decision that year to halt expansion plans and to focus exclusively on building a critical mass in Boston, Washington and New York kept the company alive and attracted investors.
 ''That was a watershed event for car sharing,'' Mr. Griffith said. ''We were the first to prove that you could get these markets profitable, stay profitable and grow the margins.'' 
 The company solved the vexing problem of improving car use during the business day -- when most potential users are at work -- by aiming at small businesses, governments and universities.
 Flexcar, too, found business and government customers crucial, and it expanded rapidly along the coast from Seattle to San Diego. But it stretched itself too thin financially.
 The company had to reintroduce its service in Los Angeles after Mr. Case bought it because Flexcar did not have enough money to market itself effectively there earlier, said Ronald A. Klain, general counsel for Mr. Case's investment firm.
 Both companies' ambitions are most clearly on display here in Washington, which has the most car-sharing users of any American city, according to Susan Shaheen, a transportation researcher at the University of California, Berkeley.
 In the Adams Morgan neighborhood and others popular with young adults, the companies say that they normally have a car available within a five-minute walk of most residents. Bright orange 14-foot poles dot busy streets in Dupont Circle, Georgetown and Foggy Bottom, marking 50 parking spots the city has dedicated to the companies for a year to test whether car sharing can reduce traffic.
 The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, which operates the regional bus and subway, and Arlington County, just across the Potomac in Virginia, are also providing free parking.
 ''We think there is something to this in terms of decreasing congestion and providing access to vehicles,'' said Dan Tangherlini, the director of Washington's transportation department, ''and maybe to reducing the number of cars over all, because we don't have any more room.''
 The program has been criticized by some residents and small-business owners who say officials are cavalierly handing out coveted spaces to private companies in a city where street parking is scarce.
 ''What I would prefer is that they would find parking spaces in privately owned land,'' said Joseph Martin, who leads a city neighborhood advisory council in the Petworth neighborhood in Northwest Washington.
 Mr. Martin said that he supported car sharing in principle but that the city was not addressing the concerns of businesses and residents. 
 City and company officials acknowledge that they have not consulted closely enough with some groups, but say that most businesses and residents support the effort and are happy to have access to more cars.
 Several car-sharing users said they turned to the service because owning a car in Washington is too expensive. 
 Shirley Loo, a librarian at the Library of Congress, lives near Capitol Hill and walks to work. She has not owned a car in 30 years but now uses a Honda Civic from Flexcar once a month for trips to the grocery store and to visit friends in the suburbs.
 Without it, she said, ''I wouldn't have gone to visit my friend who was sick in McLean.''
 For others, car sharing is an economic lifeline.
 Daragh Crowley owns Fitmeal, a business that delivers custom meals to busy professionals. He rents from ZipCar to shuttle produce, meats and other groceries from suburban markets to a rented kitchen in Alexandria, Va., and then to deliver finished meals to his 300 customers.
 ''Even though we are very inexpensive, we have been able to make money,'' he said. ''The ability to use ZipCar has really helped.''
 But will the companies be able to succeed in markets beyond a handful of urban areas? And can they do it in the face of competition?
 ZipCar plans to start service in Chicago and Philadelphia in 2006 and has eyes on Seattle, Portland, Toronto and Vancouver, British Columbia. 
 Flexcar, which already has a partnership with a nonprofit car operator in Chicago, will next go to Atlanta; Austin, Tex.; Boston; and New York City.
 Conrad Wagner, a founder of Mobility Switzerland, the biggest and most successful car-sharing business in Europe, expressed surprise at the expansion plans, noting that it took a decade for his company to reach a similar stride.
 Mr. Wagner said sharing may be an even better business in the United States because Americans have fewer transportation alternatives than Europeans do. 
 But he is also wary about the intense competition among ZipCar, Flexcar and local nonprofit operators like City CarShare in San Francisco. Mobility is Switzerland's only car-sharing company, after having acquired various rivals.
 ''I hope they won't kill themselves by going down a pricing spiral,'' Mr. Wagner said in a telephone interview from Stans, Switzerland.
 Car-sharing executives say they have not resorted to price wars, at least thus far. They are, however, already offering perks like free satellite radio, iPod connections and access to convertible Mini Coopers.
 In the meantime, said Lance Ayrault, Flexcar's chief executive, car sharing's biggest challenge is simple: ''Not enough people know what it is.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A key card passed over a sensor allows renters to open the car doors.
Gabe Klein of Zipcar with a map of car locations in Washington.
Zipcars can be picked up at parking spots marked by signs, far left. (Photographs by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 The Flexcar fleet consists of about 500 cars, and more than a third are hybrid models made by Honda. (Photo by Flexcar)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARPOOL & CARSHARE SERVICES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ZIPCAR INC (84%); AOL INC (54%); BENCHMARK CAPITAL (53%)

TICKER: ZIP (NASDAQ) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: STEVE CASE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



584 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 834 words

 BODY:

Holiday Spending on Internet Shows Increase Over Last Year
American consumers spent 26 percent more money online over the holiday weekend than they did in 2004, according to newly released figures. And after a long weekend of pointing and clicking, millions kept right on shopping at work Monday, beginning at 9 a.m., retailers said, validating the holiday shopping season's latest buzz phrase, Cyber Monday. [Page C1.] 


By most measures, the economy appears to be booming, but that does not mean the broad economic picture will be better next year. Investors, whose stock-buying had been fueling an end-of-year rally, fear that the latest positive figures will lead the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates more than expected. In turn, that could further slow the housing market, dampen consumer spending and crimp corporate profits. [A1.]

Icahn Enlists Wasserstein for Time Warner Fight
Carl C. Icahn, who is leading a group of dissident investors in a campaign against Time Warner and its board, said that he had hired Bruce Wasserstein and his firm, Lazard, to help advance the fight. [C1.]

Capus Named President of NBC News Division
Nearly a year after shepherding the handoff from Tom Brokaw to Brian Williams as the executive producer of ''NBC Nightly News,'' Steve Capus, left, was promoted to president of the network's news division. The appointment, which was announced by Jeff Zucker, president of NBC Universal Television Group, caps a meteoric year for Mr. Capus, 42, who was promoted to senior vice president of the news division in June and acting president in September. Mr. Capus assumes his job, in which he will oversee not only NBC News but also the MSNBC cable channel and Web site, at a moment of rapid transformation in broadcast news and in television over all. [E1.]

Impasse on Subsidies Could Lead to Lawsuits, Experts Say
A failure by the United States and the European Union to make significant progress toward reducing agricultural subsidies in the coming trade talks in Hong Kong could bring upon a slew of legal challenges to farm-support programs on both sides of the Atlantic, trade and agricultural experts say. [C1.]

Intel Is Set to Announce Home Media Partnerships
Intel is expected to announce that it has entered into partnerships with several movie, music and game providers to introduce content that would work with its new Viiv technology for home media centers. [C4.]

Moscow Utility Warns of Winter Blackouts
Moscow could face rolling blackouts during periods of extreme cold this winter, the head of the electricity monopoly said, dramatizing the need for fresh investment in the country's crumbling electrical grid. [C5.]

Dubai to Acquire British Shipping Company
Dubai, the upstart sheikdom of the United Arab Emirates, has agreed to purchase the British shipping company Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation for $:3.3 billion ($5.7 billion). [C5.]

Australia to Pour Surpluses Into Fund for Pensions
The Australian government has elected to plow roughly $15 billion in surpluses, together with the $18.5 billion it expects to earn from the sale of the rest of its former phone monopoly into a professionally managed investment fund. The goal is to raise the $103 billion that the government estimates it will need by 2020 to pay pensions owed to its workers. [C5.]

Advertisers Encourage Holiday Self-Indulgence
Some retailers are playing to one of the season's guilty pleasures: shoppers buying gifts for themselves. Advertising. [C1.]

Dow Average Fails to Sustain Early Rally
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 2.56 points, or 0.02 percent, to 10,888.16, after gaining almost 70 points early in the session. The S.& P. 500 was up 0.02 point at 1,257.48, while the Nasdaq fell 6.66, to 2,232.71. [C9.]

F.C.C. Chairman Proposes Cable Package Changes
Kevin J. Martin, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, proposed that cable and satellite television companies provide customers with more choices to reject some channels as part of a broader effort at combating indecency on the airwaves. [C3.]

Calpine's Stock Plummets as It Replaces Top Officials
Calpine, a producer and seller of electricity, replaced its chief executive and its chief financial officer, as it struggles with a $17 billion debt load and a recent court ruling that restricts its ability to buy fuel for its plants. Calpine's stock and bonds fell sharply on speculation that the company might file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Calpine has been weighed down by accounting and power pricing issues that arose from the Enron collapse and the California power crisis. [C9.]

Fox Network Signs Cowell to a Five-Year Contract
The Fox network announced that it had signed its most important star, Simon Cowell of ''American Idol,'' to a five-year contract. [C4.]

Plan Would Allow Proxies to Be Sent Via Web
Corporations would be allowed to post proxy statements and annual reports on Web sites, instead of sending them through the mail, under a plan proposed Tuesday by federal regulators. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph of Calpine share prices and closes, since September 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); POWER FAILURES (85%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (83%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RETAILERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (68%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (63%); AGRICULTURE (61%); INTEREST RATES (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (95%); PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO (60%); INTEL CORP (52%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (60%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (60%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (60%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (60%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%); BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



585 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: BUSH TO OUTLINE BROAD IRAQ PLAN; PUSH ON TRAINING

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
President Bush on Wednesday will put forward for the first time a public version of what the White House calls a comprehensive strategy for victory in Iraq. 
 In a related effort to begin extricating American forces next year, military officials said Tuesday that they would seek billions of additional dollars to better train Iraqis to defend the country.
The military officials in Iraq said they had requested $3.9 billion for next year to help train and equip Iraqi troops, build new police stations and outfit Iraqi soldiers with new uniforms. 
 That amount would be part of a larger spending request to Congress for the overall war effort and is on top of the $10.6 billion that lawmakers have already approved to rebuild Iraq's security forces. 
 Mr. Bush continued to emphasize that American forces cannot withdraw before their job is done. 
 ''I want our troops to come home, but I don't want them to come home without having achieved victory,'' he said in brief comments to reporters in El Paso during a visit to the Mexican border. ''And we've got a strategy for victory.'' The president was describing a speech he plans to give Wednesday at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. 
 Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, too, emphasized the imperative for Iraqis to gain control of their country, echoing the thought that instead of ''an exit strategy, we should be focused on our strategy for victory.'' 
 The catchphrase will reappear Wednesday morning in a document elaborating on Mr. Bush's speech, titled ''National Strategy for Victory in Iraq.'' 
 Taken together, the activities amount to a carefully calibrated effort to answer critics, including Democratic leaders in Congress who have argued that Mr. Bush has no plausible plan for bringing home the nearly 160,000 troops engaged in a war against the insurgency.
 As Mr. Bush returned from Asia last week and flew home to the debate in Congress over the American presence, administration officials have begun to acknowledge that the levels of forces and spending may be politically unsustainable. 
 The White House said that the strategy to be outlined Wednesday was not new, but that it had never been assembled into a single unclassified document. As the 27-page booklet was described by administration officials, much of it sounded like a list of goals for Iraq's military, political and economic development rather than new prescriptions on how to accomplish the job. 
 The Pentagon now spends $6 billion a month to sustain the American military presence in Iraq. A senior administration official said Mr. Bush's ultimate goal, to which he assigned no schedule, is to move to a ''smaller, more lethal'' American force that ''can be just as successful.''
 It is unclear how much of that vision Mr. Bush will explicitly describe Wednesday, in the first of four speeches about the Iraqi transition that he plans to give before the election of a long-term Iraqi government on Dec. 15. 
 Aides said Mr. Bush would argue that although he is determined to stay his course and that to withdraw precipitously would invite disaster, American tactics have already been refashioned to confront the insurgency more effectively. Since landmark elections this year, the attacks have continued to inflict death and injury on Iraqis and Americans alike.
 ''He is going to talk about victory in Iraq in the short term, the medium term and the long term,'' said an official familiar with the speech, which was redrafted on Tuesday. 
 The president will describe the short-term objective as ''defeating terrorists, building institutions, meeting political milestones and standing up security forces,'' the official said. 
 Without claiming that the victory he seeks is already at hand, the president will argue that Iraq is already moving into a new phase, providing its own security and establishing a permanent government. 
 ''The long-term vision is a peaceful, democratic, united nation that is well integrated and a full partner in the war on terror,'' the official said.
 Despite the new emphasis, Pentagon officials and senior commanders in Iraq no longer talk in terms of outright military victory in the sense of eliminating all resistance. Rather they discuss what Mr. Rumsfeld said at the Pentagon on Tuesday was a ''coalition strategy to help the Iraqi people increasingly take control of their country.'' 
 He responded sharply to suggestions that United States troops alone would carry out a military strategy to ''clear, hold and build'' in towns and other territory formerly controlled by insurgents. The phrase has been adopted by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, and Mr. Bush is expected to repeat it on Wednesday. 
 ''Anyone who takes those three words and thinks it means the United States should clear and the United States should hold and the United States should build doesn't understand the situation,'' Mr. Rumsfeld told reporters. ''It is Iraq's country, 28 million of them. They are perfectly capable of running that country. They're not going to run it the way you would or I would or the way we do here in this country, but they're going to run it. 
 ''Our problem is that any time something needs to be done, we have a feeling we should rush in and fill the vacuum and do it ourselves. You know what happens when you do that? First of all, you can't do it, because it's not our country. It's their country. And the second thing that happens is they don't develop the skills and the ability and the equipment and the orientation and the habit patterns of doing it for themselves. They have to do it for themselves.'' 
 Mr. Bush is expected to define his other goals in a concise triptych, as well. One is for the reconstruction, which is badly behind schedule and short of money, to be an effort to ''restore, reform and build.'' The political effort, he is expected to declare, is an effort to ''isolate terrorists, engage and build institutions.''
 ''This clearly is not the level of specificity some people are going to want to see in a plan,'' another administration official said. ''But it is a lot more than has been said before.'' 
 Another official said the publication of the strategy paper had been under way for more than a month and involved declassifying parts of a larger strategy that the White House and the Pentagon had used for some time.
 In advance of Mr. Bush's speech, Mr. Rumsfeld and Gen. Peter Pace of the Marines, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, sought Tuesday to outline the progress that the Iraqi security forces had made in the last year. They said that the Iraqis had taken control of 29 of 110 military bases held by the Americans and had more than doubled the number of trained and equipped troops, to 212,000 soldiers and police commandos. 
 The Pentagon continues to rate about a third of those forces as able to take the lead in combat operations, with some American support, and several hundred Iraqi troops as capable of operating fully independently of American troops. 
 Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who was in the 82nd Airborne Division, told reporters on Tuesday by telephone that the Iraqi security forces still suffered from largely untested leaders, unproven loyalty to the government and fledgling ministries that were struggling to build the institutional support to sustain the troops in the field. 
 ''Without an effective ministry that can keep track of soldiers and police, pay those soldiers and police, apply those soldiers and police and essentially provide the foundation, then you're going to have some tactically trained units, but they're not going to be a coherent or effective force,'' said Mr. Reed. 
 Echoing the complaints of many American commanders in Iraq who say the administration has relied too heavily on the military to restore security and stability in Iraq, Mr. Reed said Mr. Bush have to offer a more comprehensive approach. 
 ''The president has to lay out in his speech how we're doing on the other aspects of progress, not just security forces, but creating a stable political structure and a stable environment, stable economy,'' he said.
 Some of Mr. Bush's former and current advisers on Iraq say the president is entering new territory, perhaps even redefining what would constitute victory in Iraq. 
 ''People have assumed that when he says 'stay the course' that means the tactics don't change,'' a senior aide said. ''That's not the case. If you are suggesting that we have not had a dynamic, adaptive approach, you're wrong.'' 
 Mr. Bush will be careful not to describe what Mr. Rumsfeld called ''metrics'' of progress. Instead, the president will talk about the progress made in the past year by relying more on Iraqi troops. 
 ''One of the points we are trying to convey is that you can't measure success by the number of boots on the ground,'' the official said. ''We can probably work more effectively with a smaller footprint.''
 Senator Reed warned that reducing troop strength carried considerable risks. ''To assume that our departure would stop the violence, I think, assumes too much, because there are still huge tensions within the country between sectarian groups,'' he said. ''There will be a struggle for power. And that struggle might be even exacerbated if we were to pull out too quickly.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: American marines helping Iraqi troops train last month. American officials say Iraqis have doubled the trained and equipped troops. (Photo by Patrick Baz/Agence France-Presse)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); NAVIES (72%); APPROVALS (72%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); POLICE FORCES (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (77%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (77%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); MEXICO (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



586 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's Leader Says He'll Persevere on Migration

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
A day after President Bush announced steps to increase border security, President Vicente Fox said Tuesday that his government would cooperate but would also persevere in pushing to expand legal channels for Mexican immigrants seeking work in the United States. 
 ''To me it seems that one thing goes with the other,'' Mr. Fox said at a news conference. ''If we are going to have a migration agreement that makes things orderly, then we have to at the same time end the illegality.''
 ''The best thing that can happen to both our countries is to have an orderly flow, a controlled flow, of migration to the United States,'' Mr. Fox said, adding that Mexicans ''contribute enormously to the U.S. economy, to U.S. competitiveness.''
 Mr. Bush traveled to the border with Mexico on Monday to announce what he described as a three-point plan to improve security along the border and stem the growing tide of workers entering the country illegally each year.
 The plan, he said, will involve strengthening law enforcement efforts by, among other things, deploying at least 1,000 more Border Patrol agents, increasing capacity at migrant holding centers and spending more than $200 million to upgrade surveillance technology and infrastructure. 
 Mr. Bush also promised tougher enforcement against employers who hired immigrants staying in the country unlawfully. 
 The third part of his plan, he said, will be to urge Congress to expand guest worker programs so that millions of immigrants can fill jobs that Americans will not do, but without letting them stay permanently.
 Mr. Fox, who has just one year left in his term, said the speech renewed his optimism that five years since Mexico began migration negotiations with United States, Mr. Bush might finally succeed in getting support for limited reforms from Congress.
 ''I am absolutely convinced that it is better for both our countries to work together to reach an understanding,'' Mr. Fox said. ''And we are getting that understanding from the government. We are getting it from Congress. So we will keep having an optimistic, perseverant attitude toward this issue. And in the end, I am sure that we will have an agreement.''
 Not all Mexican political analysts were so sure.
 Andres Rozental, the president of the Mexican Council on Foreign Relations, said he was encouraged that Mr. Bush had expressed commitment to the guest worker program. But he said he was worried that the president would press only for increased law enforcement and ignore the more politically polarizing proposals for guest workers, not to mention concerns about the status of the estimated six million Mexicans already working in the United States without legal residency.
 ''The proof will be in the pudding when the White House gets down to the details of what will actually happen and when,'' Mr. Rozental said. ''If there's only a border enforcement program, then it's useless.''
 Rafael Fernandez de Castro, of the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico, echoed that thinking, saying Mr. Bush's speech was full of one-sided oratory that emphasized security in the context of the antiterrorist concerns of the United States but showed little interest in improving security for migrants who are dying in record numbers as law enforcement operations force them to cross through inhospitable deserts and dangerous rivers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); IMMIGRATION (91%); BORDER CONTROL (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (51%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



587 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Bush Expected to Reveal Detailed Iraq Exit Strategy
President Bush will put forward for the first time a public version of what the White House calls a comprehensive strategy for victory in Iraq. In a related effort to begin extricating American forces next year, military officials said they would seek billions of additional dollars to better train Iraqis to defend the country. A1

A prominent German archaeologist and aid worker was kidnapped by insurgents who threatened to kill her unless Germany withdrew its support for the Iraqi government. 
The abduction was the latest in a new wave of kidnappings. A1

U.S. Answers Europe on Camps
The Bush administration, responding to European alarm over allegations of secret detention camps and the transport of terror suspects on European soil, insisted that American actions complied with international law but promised to respond to formal inquiries from European nations. A3

Support for Sharon's New Party
Shimon Peres plans to quit the left-leaning Labor Party and back Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's new centrist party in March parliamentary elections, Israeli television reported. A14

Britain Debates Energy Policy
Prime Minister Tony Blair announced that Britain may reverse its current reluctance to build new nuclear power plants, despite opposition from environmental groups. A12

Vatican Defends Ban on Gays
The Vatican officially released a new document that strongly reinforced its ban on ordaining homosexuals as priests, and a cardinal, making the church's first public comment, rejected the contention that the decree was discriminatory. A6

China Calls Spill Contained
Water drawn from the Songhua River to supply almost four million people in the northern city of Harbin was fit to drink, the state news media reported, almost a week after pumping was suspended because of a massive chemical spill. A14

EDUCATION B9

Schools Look to Change Image
Across the country, colleges are trying to raise their national profiles. But perhaps nowhere is this more challenging than in the South, where university officials often find themselves struggling to temper Confederate imagery without alienating alumni and donors. A1

ARTS E1-12

Deadheads Bummed Out
The Grateful Dead, the business, is testing the loyalty of longtime fans of the Grateful Dead, the jam band, by cracking down on an independently run Web site that made thousands of recordings of its live concerts available for free downloading. E1

NATIONAL A19-29

Governor Stays Execution; Loss of Evidence Is Cited
Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia granted clemency to a convicted killer, declaring that the loss of a crucial piece of evidence had convinced him that the defendant should not be put to death as scheduled. A19

Dealing With Difficult Doctors
In an era where doctors, under pressure to see more patients, are spending less and less time with each one and are replacing long discussions with laboratory tests and scans, some physicians are blatantly ignoring patients' requests. A1

Hurricane Season Tapers Off
One of the most extraordinary hurricane seasons on record will end soon, but forecasters are warning that the period of intense storms could continue for years to come. The Atlantic Ocean is in a cycle of frenetic hurricane activity that started a decade ago. A19

Disgraced Lawmaker Criticized
President Bush and other Republican leaders, concerned that former Representative Randy Cunningham's admission that he took bribes and evaded taxes could damage the party's prospects, issued harsh denunciations of his actions. A29

Bush's Immigration Push
President Bush traveled to the front lines of the fight to deter illegal immigration, standing along the Rio Grande in El Paso, Texas, to emphasize his message that he intends to strengthen the border. A26

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Developers Agree to Pay Millions for Manhattan Air
Two city developers have agreed to pay $430 per square foot, a record-setting amount, for unused air rights over Christ Church and the Grolier Club at Park Avenue and East 60th Street. A1

E.P.A. Scales Back Cleanup
The Environmental Protection Agency said it would clean, at no cost, any apartment south of Canal Street with unacceptable levels of contaminants from the collapse of the World Trade Center. B1

Pirro Urged to Quit Race
Jeanine F. Pirro's Republican bid to unseat Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton suffered an embarrassing setback when Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the New York Legislature's most powerful Republican, said she should run for state attorney general instead. B1

Neediest Cases B7

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-6

DINING IN F1-14

OBITUARIES C19

Stan Berenstain
The author who with his wife, Jan, wrote more than 250 Berenstain Bears children's books, he was 82. C19

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Economic Outlook Uncertain
By most measures, the economy appears to be booming. But investors fear that the latest positive figures will lead the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates even more aggressively, which in turn could further slow the housing market, dampen consumer spending and crimp corporate profits. A1

Increase in Online Shopping
American consumers spent 26 percent more money online over the holiday weekend than they did in 2004, according to figures released by ComScore Networks. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: The next abortion decision; trying Saddam, and his system; AIDS, and homophobia, in Jamaica; the Duke shames the Capitol.

Column: Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E4
Weather D7
TV Listings E10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RELIGION (90%); EVIDENCE (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); POWER PLANTS (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (58%); ARCHAEOLOGY (56%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (51%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); SHIMON PERES (58%); MARK WARNER (57%); TONY BLAIR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (75%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (57%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); HOLY SEE (91%); GERMANY (91%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



588 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Honduras to Challenge Banana Ruling

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Honduras said that it would lodge a World Trade Organization challenge against the European Union's plan to more than double the tariff that Latin American banana exporters pay to sell their fruit in the 25-nation bloc. The European Union, the world's biggest banana importer, said Friday that it would replace quotas with a duty of 176 euros ($208) a metric ton. The bloc is trying to end a nine-year squabble with the largest exporting countries, including Ecuador, Panama and Costa Rica, as well as the United States, which filed the original W.T.O. complaint. Latin American producers say the planned tariff, which will take effect Jan. 1, is too high. European governments backed the levy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) European Union; World Trade Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); ECUADOR (79%); COSTA RICA (79%) Honduras; Europe

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



589 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Urged To Raise Rates

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said yesterday that the Federal Reserve should keep raising interest rates but urged central banks in Europe and Japan to keep rates low to foster economic growth. 
 Strong demand and rising prices in the United States will push the Fed to increase its benchmark rate to 4.75 percent, the organization said in its semiannual economic outlook. The absence of an inflation threat means the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan should leave rates unchanged, it said.
 The organization said it raised its forecast for growth in the world's three largest economies because of how well the world has weathered this year's 31 percent surge in oil prices. The global economy has ''skated through the energy price shock with relative ease,'' the group said in its 234-page report. 
 The United States economy will grow 3.5 percent next year and 3.3 percent in 2007 after 3.6 percent this year, the report predicted. Its forecasts for growth this year in Japan and Europe were higher than the 1.8 percent and 1.3 percent it had anticipated. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (69%) 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (93%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Federal Reserve System; European Union; European Central Bank; Bank of Japan

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Europe; Japan

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



590 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: A Secure Old Age in Australia From Investments Abroad

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

 BODY:
It is the kind of problem most governments could only wish for: After several years of budget surpluses, debt is headed to zero and a huge privatization next year will add billions of dollars more to the treasury.
 How to spend it: On public works? Tax cuts? A rainy-day fund?
 The Australian government, faced with just such an embarrassment of riches, has elected to plow roughly $15 billion in surpluses, together with the $18.5 billion it expects to earn from the sale of the rest of its former phone monopoly, Telstra, into a professionally managed investment fund. 
 Called the Future Fund, this national nest egg would also absorb future budget surpluses and invest it in world financial markets. The goal is to raise the $103 billion that the government estimates it will need by 2020 to pay pensions owed to its employees.
 Finance Minister Nicholas Minchin, referring to money held in the central bank, said by telephone from Canberra, ''We're satisfied that a diversified and well-managed investment fund will be able to earn over the longer term considerably more, and build up to the requisite size in a much more likely fashion, than just leaving it with the reserve.'' 
 Having proposed the investment fund last year, the government plans to introduce legislation in the next two weeks to create it. The fund would soon become one of the largest in Australia and, at its peak, is likely to number among the world's largest public investment funds -- joining the ranks of the $100 billion Government of Singapore Investment and the nearly $200 billion California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers. And like them, analysts say, the Future Fund is likely to have a proportionate influence in global financial markets.
 There was no immediate indication how its portfolio would be divided between Asian and other world markets. Officials, though, want the Future Fund to avoid buying so much stock in any company that it becomes a controlling shareholder. That means it would seek its opportunities outside Australia. ''There simply aren't enough large equities that would allow significant liquidity without the fund having a significant shareholding,'' said John Edwards, chief economist at HSBC in Sydney. ''It will have to look offshore.''
 Once overseas, big funds cannot help but exert influence -- on prices and politics. Calpers, for example, has influenced markets in developing countries, many with total value smaller than the pension fund.
 In 2002, it roiled Asian markets by declaring that it would pull out of Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand because these countries did not meet new investment standards for political stability, labor rights, a free press and credible accounting. The Filipinos and Thais sent senior aides to California to persuade fund officials to change their mind. Calpers has since reapproved all those markets except Indonesia.
 Beyond owning no controlling stakes, Mr. Minchin said, the government will not impose restrictions on where the Future Fund should invest, or what it should or should not invest in. ''We're not going to have a 'you can't buy this,' or 'you can't buy that,' '' he said. ''We're just saying, 'Have regard to the Australian government's reputation.' ''
 All this presents officials with another riddle: How can a government become a market player when it also serves as referee, and how does it ensure that its investment decisions do not become extensions of government policy? Placing the Future Fund under an independent agency that farms it out to professional managers is one possible solution. 
 Not surprisingly, the government's plans are running into opposition from critics, like Wayne Swan, the opposition Labor Party's shadow treasurer, who said, ''This is a de facto tightening of fiscal policy, which is inhibiting the ability of the government to invest in the productive capacity of this country.''
 Few doubt that Australia needs to save more to ensure public-worker pensions. Like most industrial nations, its population is aging, and while a commodity-driven economic boom has kept the government flush, the public's savings rate is relatively low and paying for pensions will put a growing burden on working-age Australians.
 The government has taken steps to head off this problem by requiring all workers to put 9 percent of their income into private pension funds. Public employees are no exception, but those who were part of the previous pension plan will retire eventually, posing a 91 billion Australian dollar liability ($67 billion), the government's largest obligation.
 So analysts and economists generally support programs like the Future Fund. ''It's certainly a positive development in the sense of doing something about their pension obligations,'' Sharad Jain, government debt analyst at Standard & Poor's in Melbourne, said. And Moody's recently extolled Australia's solution as a good alternative to the system in the United States, where the government pays retirement benefits from commingled general revenue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); LEGISLATION (51%) 

ORGANIZATION: Telstra Communications Ltd; Futures Fund (Australia)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (56%) Nicholas (Min) Minchin

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (72%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); PHILIPPINES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%) Australia; Australia

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



591 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Sporting Goods and Its Own Business Model

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

DATELINE: BUDA, Tex. 

 BODY:
Since it opened in June 2005, it's been hard to find a parking space at the Cabela's in this tiny town, halfway between Austin and San Antonio. 
 A shuttle like those that ferry travelers between gates at airports zips around Cabela's stadium-size parking lot taking people from their cars to the outdoor equipment retailer's rough-hewn entrance. In their sensible shoes and fanny packs, looking like tourists instead of shoppers, many reach for their cameras to take pictures of the hundreds of mounted wild animals that greet them as they walk through the door.
It's the same scene at the 14 other Cabela's stores across the country, most of them built in the last five years. Typically perched on a hill overlooking a major Interstate, the stores look like giant stone hunting lodges and are essentially amusement parks for the hunting and fishing set. 
 Each store annually attracts close to four million visitors, many of them traveling more than 100 miles, according to company officials. Even with the substantial tax incentives required to entice the company to break ground, the stores are a boon to the mostly small towns where Cabela's has put retail outlets. 
 ''Having Cabela's here has accelerated growth tremendously,'' said John Trube, mayor of Buda, which has a population of 4,000 and now has several restaurants, two hotels and a Wal-Mart under construction. ''We're having businesses come in that would have never located here before.'' 
 More than mere megamarts, Cabela's stores, stocking more than 200,000 products, are tourist attractions featuring 50,000-gallon fresh water aquariums, taxidermy displays worthy of a natural history museum, fudge shops and laser shooting galleries. They are designed to invite crowds. The 185,000-square-foot showroom in Buda has so far drawn almost as many visitors each month as the Alamo, the most popular tourist destination in Texas. 
 But there would be no bustle in Buda, which has a municipal budget of $4.5 million, if the town had not secured a $40 million bond to make the infrastructure improvements Cabela's demanded. As it has done in other communities, the company then bought the debt in exchange for a sales tax exemption. The state of Texas also awarded Cabela's a $600,000 enterprise grant and made $19.5 million in Interstate and overpass improvements. 
 ''We used to have two lanes going in and out of town and now we have five,'' said Warren Ketteman, the executive director of the Buda Economic Development Corporation. ''The state got it done in a year. Otherwise, it would have been a traffic nightmare around here.''
 Cabela's, which is based in Sydney, Neb., negotiated a similarly favorable package of incentives from local and state officials before the September opening of its 150,000-square-foot store in Lehi, Utah, which is halfway between Provo and Salt Lake City. It is hard to quantify exactly how generous the deal was because it included an exemption from paying tax on catalog sales to Utah residents. (Founded in 1961, Cabela's started as a catalog company and its mail-order business still comprises more than half of its $1.6 billion annual sales, according to the company's annual report.)
 Moreover, a developer gave Cabela's its 40-acre store site in Lehi, according to company and town officials. ''We wanted them as an anchor tenant,'' said Stephen C. Christensen, the chief executive of Mountain Home Development, a planned community of 8,000 homes and four million square feet of retail space in Lehi. He would not discuss the terms of the land transaction. 
 Locating in small towns like Buda and Lehi, where locals are more likely to offer such sweetheart deals, is part of Cabela's strategy. The company's senior vice president for retail operations, Mike Callahan, said, ''They are more eager to work with us because we are a huge driver for economic growth,'' not only because of the traffic the stores generate but the ancillary businesses like hotels and restaurants that tend to cluster around them. 
 For example, there was only one hotel and a biker bar in Dundee, Mich., 17 miles south of Ann Arbor, before a 225,000-square-foot Cabela's opened in 2000. Today there are four hotels with a fifth under construction and eight new restaurants. ''We've been able to lower the village tax rate,'' said Dale W. Zorn, a county commissioner.
 Cabela's, which went public last year in part to finance the growth of its retail business, prefers towns that are on major Interstates and less than a 30-minute drive from large metropolitan areas. The company maps out where it has the most catalog customers and how much they spend. 
 ''I have a color-coded map of the U.S. on my wall with green representing the best areas for us to locate stores,'' said Mr. Callahan, adding that Cabela's has identified at least 50 green zones and plans to open four stores next year. Each store costs $50 million to $80 million to build. 
 As part of its site selection negotiations with city officials and developers, Cabela's typically requires that it be allowed to approve all nearby tenants. In some instances, as in Buda, the company will buy four times the property it needs so it can control who becomes its neighbors. ''They are very picky about who builds next to them,'' said Mr. Ketteman of the Buda economic development corporation. Cabela's real estate covenants usually bar competing sporting goods retailers, liquor stores or used-car lots.
 Retail analysts worry that Cabela could face a problem that afflicts many tourist attractions like the Alamo: people will go once and figure they've been there, done that. Another concern is rising fuel prices. ''You've got to wonder with gas at $3 per gallon if people are still going to want to drive 200 miles to buy a fishing rod,'' said John Shanley, senior athletic and footwear analyst at the New York office of Susquehanna Financial Inc., which is based in Philadelphia and has a neutral rating on Cabela's stock. 
 But the parking lots at Cabela's stores that have been open for several years are still packed. ''Amazingly enough, the people keep coming,'' said Marilyn Scheibel, director of the Convention and Visitors Bureau in Lenawee County, which is near Cabela's Dundee store. ''The store has all sorts of fishing and hunting events, bird-calling classes and things like camper shows that bring people in.'' Other store events might include jerky tastings or workshops with titles like ''The Secrets of Stalking'' and ''Cast Iron Cooking.''
 Another concern for analysts is that the stores will cannibalize the catalog sales. But Mr. Callahan said that although there was a regional dip of 8 percent to 10 percent in catalog orders in the first few months after opening a store, it rebounded within 18 months. He also noted that online sales continued to be robust. 
 ''We're in an age of multichannel shopping,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Cabela's in Buda, Tex., features extensive taxidermy displays in the 185,000-square-foot rough-hewn structure. (Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); MAYORS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (76%); SALES TAX (76%); TOURISM (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); CONFECTIONERY & NUT STORES (71%); ANIMALS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%) 

ORGANIZATION: Cabela's

PERSON: Kate Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Buda (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



592 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Richest State? Data Reveals A Tight Race

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
The new numbers from the Census Bureau on Tuesday seemed to restore Connecticut's longstanding status as the wealthiest state in the nation: it edged out New Jersey by $53 in median household income for 2003, after falling behind the Garden State the year before by $389. 
 Coupled with Connecticut's determined efforts to reform its image after a series of political scandals -- the kind that also invited comparisons to New Jersey -- the new ranking, however minimal the change in numbers, surely was at least a psychological victory for the state.
If only it were so simple.
 ''We have alternative measures of income,'' said James W. Hughes, who is dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University in New Jersey.
 Mr. Hughes noted that another recent report issued by the Census Bureau, the 2004 American Community Survey, listed New Jersey as having a slightly higher median income than Connecticut. The difference between the two, he suggested, could be that the latest data included capital gains, but the American Community Survey did not. 
 According to the data released on Tuesday, Connecticut's 2003 median household income, which included capital gains and all other household income, was $56,409 compared with $56,356 for New Jersey. New York, at $44,139, ranked 20th. 
 Mr. Hughes said Connecticut has long led the nation in another key category, per capita income, and that has not changed. 
 But he warned against drawing simple conclusions from any of the numbers. ''Another take on all of this is that higher income than the nation as a whole doesn't mean we're living in the lap of luxury,'' Mr. Hughes said. ''Housing costs are so much higher that the cost of living actually cancels out that advantage.''
 Edward J. Deak, the Roger M. Lynch professor of economics at Fairfield University in Connecticut, also discouraged armchair economic analysis. ''Even with capital gains, the wage income in Connecticut is quite high,'' he said. ''That's good for the people that are working, but it's also an impediment to job creation in the state, because the cost of doing business is high.''
 David Waddington, chief of the small area estimates branch at the Census Bureau, said the difference between Connecticut and New Jersey in the data released on Tuesday is meaningless, in part because the figures involved are estimates.
 ''Statistically those are indistinguishable,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); JOB CREATION (61%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (56%) 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%) Census Bureau

PERSON: William Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut ; New Jer00233000

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



593 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. Chief Prods Pay TV To Help Combat Indecency

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission on Tuesday proposed that cable and satellite television companies provide customers with more choices to reject some channels as part of an effort at combating indecency on the airwaves.
 At a forum on indecency before the Senate Commerce Committee, the F.C.C. chairman, Kevin J. Martin, said that the agency had reversed itself and would conclude in a new report that it was economically feasible for cable TV companies to permit consumers to subscribe to individual channels -- beyond the basic package of channels that must be offered -- instead of the current offerings of packages of premium channels.
''I share your concern about the increase in coarse programming on television and radio today,'' Mr. Martin said. ''I also share your belief that the best solution would be for the industry to voluntarily take action to address the issue. But I do believe that something needs to be done.'' 
 The reversal will have little immediate practical significance because it is not a regulatory mandate, and Mr. Martin has suggested that he will do little more than try to goad the industry into voluntarily offering subscribers more choices. But executives from cable and satellite television companies said they did not expect changes in the plans they offer.
 ''We can't comment on any new F.C.C. a la carte report until it's released and we've had a chance to review it, but previous and recent analyses were consistent in their findings that government pay-per-channel regulation would be likely to hurt consumers by increasing prices, decreasing choice and reducing diversity in programming, and it would do so in a way that violates the First Amendment,'' said Kyle McSlarrow, president of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, a trade group in Washington. 
 Still, the F.C.C.'s decision provides a lift to supporters of legislation that would force companies to offer a la carte plans. Even so, the legislation faces considerable obstacles.
 The companies already have the legal authority to offer a la carte plans. But they have resisted because of technical issues and because they say that offering individual channels would raise costs for consumers and lower the amount of programming. They maintain that some channels subsidize others.
 A commission report last year that was embraced by the cable industry concluded that viewers could save money only if they subscribed to fewer than nine channels. That report found that ''government intervention through a la carte regulation likely will hurt'' cable and satellite TV companies and their subscribers.
 But the 2004 report, which was approved by the chairman at the time, Michael K. Powell, was attacked by consumer groups, and on Tuesday it was challenged by Mr. Martin.
 ''The staff is now finalizing a report that concludes that the earlier report relied on problematic assumptions and presented incorrect and incomplete analysis,'' Mr. Martin said. He said the new report will conclude that there are multiple ways for cable companies to offer a la carte services.
 Mr. Martin said Tuesday that the a la carte approach ''could be economically feasible and in consumers' best interests.'' He repeated his earlier suggestions that an a la carte service, such as a ''family friendly'' package of channels, was one way to reduce the amount of indecency by giving consumers greater control over their subscriptions. 
 But absent further action by the commission or Congress, no major cable companies are expected to offer such plans. Mr. Martin has expressed no interest in writing regulations requiring such plans.
 And while the telephone companies are beginning to offer more video services and some executives have suggested that they support a la carte in principle, they are unable to purchase individual programming from the networks that would make it feasible to offer such a service.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin J. Martin, the chairman of the F.C.C., at hearings yesterday. (Photo by Jonathan Ernst/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); CABLE TELEVISION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); APPROVALS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%) Federal Communications Commission

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (90%) Kevin J Martin; Stephen Labaton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



594 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Denounce Ex-Lawmaker

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and CARL HULSE; John M. Broder reported from Los Angeles for this article, and Carl Hulse from Washington.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
Concerned that the stain of former Representative Randy Cunningham's admission that he took bribes and evaded taxes could damage the party's prospects, President Bush and other Republican leaders issued strong denunciations of Mr. Cunningham's actions on Tuesday.
 With several investigations focusing on top Republican officials and growing public unease over the war in Iraq and economic policy at home, party leaders moved to distance themselves and their party from Mr. Cunningham's felony plea. 
Though some Republican officials said Democrats in Congress were equally guilty of questionable behavior, including lobbyist-paid trips and underreporting of campaign contributions, they acknowledged that Republicans, because they control the White House and Congress, are being held to a higher standard by many voters. They also expressed shock and embarrassment at the extent of Mr. Cunningham's wrongdoing, which the president described on Tuesday as ''outrageous.''
 Mr. Bush, answering a question about Mr. Cunningham's resignation from a reporter in El Paso, said members of Congress must take their legal and ethical obligations seriously.
 ''The idea of a congressman taking money is outrageous,'' the president said. ''And Congressman Cunningham is going to realize that he has broken the law and is going to pay a serious price, which he should.'' 
 Mr. Cunningham, an eight-term representative from San Diego, pleaded guilty on Monday to charges that he took at least $2.4 million in bribes to steer Pentagon contracts to two friends. He announced his resignation from Congress hours after entering his plea.
 Representative David Dreier, the California Republican who heads the House Rules Committee, said Mr. Cunningham had violated the ethical standards of the House and was right to resign immediately.
 ''It is regretful that his great service to this country has been tarred by his actions,'' Mr. Dreier said in a statement.
 The case intensified attention to charges of ethical and legal violations by members of Congress, including such influential leaders as Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the Republican leader in the Senate, and Representative Tom DeLay, the Texas Republican who was forced to step down as majority leader after he was indicted in Texas in September.
 In addition, three of Mr. Cunningham's Republican colleagues in California have drawn scrutiny for possible violations of House ethics rules. 
 One of them, Representative John T. Doolittle, has acknowledged that his wife, Julie, who runs a marketing firm in Washington, has been subpoenaed in the federal investigation of the former lobbyist Jack Abramoff. Mr. Doolittle's former chief of staff, Kevin A. Ring, briefly worked for Mr. Abramoff after leaving Mr. Doolittle's Congressional office.
 Mr. Doolittle's press secretary, Laura Blackann, said that Mr. Doolittle had not been contacted by the Justice Department in connection with the Abramoff investigation and that any dealings between the two men were proper and legal.
 Another California Republican, Representative Dana Rohrabacher from Orange County, has acknowledged receiving a $23,000 option on a screenplay from a Hollywood producer who last month was charged with multiple counts of fraud in connection with an investment scheme.
 Mr. Rohrabacher acknowledged introducing the producer, Joseph Medawar, to several officials in Washington, with the understanding that Mr. Medawar was working on a television series about the Department of Homeland Security.
 Mr. Rohrabacher said that the House ethics committee had approved his screenplay deal with Mr. Medawar and that he was unaware of any possible fraud. 
 ''I have not seen all the evidence,'' he said. ''Whether he is a flamboyant incompetent or he's a con man will be determined by the jury.''
 A third California Republican, Representative Richard W. Pombo, has been criticized by Democrats as failing to report the value of two foreign trips paid for by a lobby group, paying family members from political accounts, and accepting campaign contributions from Mr. Abramoff and Mr. DeLay.
 Mr. Pombo dismissed the accusations as partisan attacks.
 Karen Hanretty, communications director for the California Republican Party, said the attacks were part of a broader assault on Republicans.
 ''There's always a roomful of researchers who are digging up dirt on the opposition,'' Ms. Hanretty said, ''and that's just part of the political game, whether it's at the state level or the national level.'' 
 ''The party that holds power in D.C. always comes under greater scrutiny,'' she said.
 But accusations of ethical violations pale beside Mr. Cunningham's admitted criminal conduct.
 According to his plea agreement with federal prosecutors, Mr. Cunningham, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, took hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash from two military contractors while helping them win Pentagon contracts.
 Lawyers involved in the case identified the contractors as Mitchell J. Wade, founder of MZM Inc., a company he has since sold that provides intelligence services to the Pentagon and other government agencies, and Brent Wilkes, founder of a data processing company that did business with the Defense Department.
 Prosecutors said the contractors also gave Mr. Cunningham hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of gifts, including a Rolls-Royce, two 19th-century French commodes, four armoires, a wooden sideboard with turned wooden spindles, three nightstands, a necklace, a laser shooting simulator and $15,000 worth of Oriental carpets (described in court documents as ''one Indo Herati, one Karaja, one Indo Keshan and two Cino Kerman rugs'').
 The contractors also paid for tens of thousands of dollars' worth of repairs to the Rolls-Royce and to Mr. Cunningham's boat, the Kelly C, and essentially bought the former congressman a $2.55 million home in the exclusive San Diego County community of Rancho Santa Fe.
 Under the plea deal, Mr. Cunningham has to forfeit the house, $1.8 million in cash, and all the rugs and antiques.
 Carol C. Lam, the United States attorney for the Southern District of California, called Mr. Cunningham's actions ''a crime of unprecedented magnitude and extraordinary audacity.'' Ms. Lam said the investigation was continuing.
 Calls to Mr. Cunningham's office were not returned. He made no public appearances on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SUBPOENAS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); FELONIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN T DOOLITTLE (79%); DAVID DREIER (57%) John M Broder; Carl Hulse; Randy (Rep) Cunningham; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (74%); EL PASO, TX, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



595 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Bush, Touring the Border, Puts Emphasis on Enforcement

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: DENVER, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
President Bush traveled on Tuesday to El Paso, at the front lines of the fight to deter illegal immigration, where he took a tour along the Rio Grande to emphasize his message that he intends to strengthen the border. 
 His remarks continued a pronounced shift from his early emphasis on ensuring a way for businesses to employ illegal immigrants temporarily, to a focus on keeping illegal immigrants out.
 ''We've got a comprehensive strategy that says we're going to enforce this border,'' Mr. Bush said, answering questions from reporters before flying on to Denver. ''We're going to prevent people from coming here in the first place.''
 The president's change in emphasis has been driven by the politics of the issue as Congress prepares to take up legislation addressing border security and immigration. Conservatives in his own party are far more focused on deterring the flow of migrants over the border than on providing a stable labor pool for businesses.
 Many Republicans view with suspicion, if not outright opposition, what was initially the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's policy: a guest worker program granting illegal immigrants who are already in the United States a right to work legally for a specified number of years, but then requiring them to return home.
 Those critics of the plan have said it comes too close to granting amnesty to lawbreakers. Other experts on immigration say it would be unfeasible, arguing that few of the workers would agree to leave the United States voluntarily when their legal status ended and that without the lure of legal permanent residency or citizenship, they would not sign up for the program in the first place.
 On Tuesday, Mr. Bush said again that he wanted any plan passed by Congress to include the guest worker program. He brought it up both in El Paso and in a later appearance here at a fund-raiser for Representative Marilyn Musgrave, Republican of Colorado. In a recent statement of principles for overhauling immigration, Ms. Musgrave emphasized improving border security. She made no mention of a guest worker program but said she would oppose any amnesty provisions.
 Mr. Bush sought to allay that concern.
 ''Amnesty would say to other illegal aliens, 'Come, and you can come into America and get citizenship automatically,' '' Mr. Bush said at the fund-raiser, which brought in more than $450,000 for Ms. Musgrave. ''No, I'm for a bill that strengthens our border by providing people with a tamper-proof identity card to let them work in America for jobs Americans won't do, on a temporary basis, and then go back to their country.''
 Democrats said Mr. Bush had delayed too long in addressing the problem.
 ''It is time for President Bush to resist those on the right who rely on fear tactics to prevent our broken system from being fixed,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''As business leaders and experts understand, true immigration reform must be realistic and comprehensive, strengthening our security while bringing an underground economy above ground.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Border Patrol officer along the Mexican border's El Paso sector, which President Bush visited yesterday. (Photo by Evan Vucci/Associated Press)
 ''We've got a comprehensive strategy that says we're going to enforce this border,'' the president said after his tour along the Rio Grande. (Photo by Mandel Ngan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CITIZENSHIP (87%); POLITICS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); AMNESTY (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); LEGISLATION (73%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); MARILYN N MUSGRAVE (78%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%) Texas; El Paso (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



596 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Chief of Russian Utility Warns Of Possible Winter Blackouts 

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 29 

 BODY:
Moscow could face rolling blackouts during periods of extreme cold this winter, the head of the electricity monopoly said Tuesday, dramatizing the need for fresh investment in the country's crumbling electrical grid. 
 Anatoly B. Chubais, the head of Unified Energy System, who has been working on the privatization of the country's electrical system for five years, warned a business gathering here of a ''dramatic'' and ''catastrophic'' collapse of the system, which was built in the Brezhnev era, if electric rates are not raised to attract investment.
Mr. Chubais said he would cut power to some customers during cold snaps of 31 degrees below zero Fahrenheit lasting longer than three days to avert a catastrophic failure of the system. While hot spells typically raise electricity demand in the United States as air-conditioning use rises, cold brings the heaviest loads here as Russians often plug in electric heaters to stay warm. A cut in power could lead to incidents of frost bite or deaths from freezing.
 But Mr. Chubais did not directly criticize President Vladimir V. Putin's government for setting the low rates, a sensitive subject here. A bungled attempt last winter to eliminate state subsidies in other areas of the economy -- bus tickets and medical benefits for the elderly -- led to huge street protests by pensioners, and a quick backpedaling by the Kremlin.
 ''If the country thinks that we should continue to live under the 'inflation-minus' scenario, fine, we are capable of this,'' Mr. Chubais said, referring to the government policy of keeping rate increases below the rate of inflation. ''We showed it for two years and will for another year. But then we'll arrive at a complete catastrophe.'' 
 Mr. Chubais's plan for the utility could also be delayed by election-year politics. A vote for members of Parliament is scheduled for next year and a presidential vote is due in 2008. Neither year would be a politically opportune time to raise electric rates.
 To attract investment to the creaky grid, Mr. Chubais has divided the Russian network into seven national wholesale operators, one of which has already been privatized, and dozens of regional companies. The smaller companies would sell stock or bonds to finance improvements in the system, and investors would recoup their money through the rates paid by consumers. 
 The privatization is one of the last large-scale sales under way in Russia, and comes at a time when other privatizations devised by Mr. Chubais -- he was an economic official under Boris N. Yeltsin when he was president -- are being reversed by President Putin, who has effectively nationalized some of the country's big oil companies. 
 Analysts say the Unified Energy System has created some of its own problems by endlessly revising its plans and allowing insiders to exploit the privatization for personal gain. 
 Meanwhile, demand for electricity is expected to outstrip supply by late 2007, Mr. Chubais said. That demand is driven by economic growth from oil exports and the new malls, auto dealerships, office towers and factories that have followed.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vladimir V. Putin, left, meeting with the head of Russia's electricity monopoly, Anatoly B. Chubais, in Moscow yesterday. (Photo by Alexey Panov/Presidential Press Service, via Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (92%); POWER FAILURES (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITY RATES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); POLITICS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); INFLATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); AGING (65%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Unified Energy Systems

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (72%) Anatoly B Chubais; Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Moscow (Russia) ; Russia

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005



597 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 30, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Ferrer Adviser Cites a Failure By Democrats

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Patrick D. Healy contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
A senior adviser to Fernando Ferrer, the defeated Democratic mayoral nominee, said yesterday that nationally prominent Democrats who deserted Mr. Ferrer's candidacy had done a disservice not only to him, but also to the party's efforts to woo Hispanic voters.
 The abandonment of Mr. Ferrer, the party's first Hispanic mayoral nominee, was ''an absolute failure to recognize a constituency coming of age in New York City,'' said the adviser, Roberto Ramirez. 
 ''It's their failure and they will have to live with it,'' he said. 
 His remarks, accompanied by the Ferrer camp's criticism of press coverage of the mayoral race and of a ''mindset'' that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's re-election was inevitable, punctuated a post-election forum yesterday for campaign consultants, political journalists and pollsters. The forum was sponsored by Milano The New School for Management and Urban Policy and the Center for New York City Affairs. 
 An underlying theme of the forum was whether Mr. Ferrer, even if he had not made a single mistake, could have defeated Mr. Bloomberg. Given the fact that he was challenging an incumbent whose approval rating was 60 percent and who was prepared to spend more than $75 million on his campaign, ''the likelihood of winning that race is infinitesimally small,'' said Jef Pollock, Mr. Ferrer's pollster.
 And there were mistakes, which the Ferrer camp acknowledged yesterday: Mr. Ferrer should have declared his candidacy earlier, and raised more money sooner when he appeared to be more competitive in the polls. And he should never have told a police gathering that the fatal 1999 police shooting of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant, was not a crime.
 Raising the issue before that group ''gave the basis for everybody to question'' whether Mr. Ferrer was trying to score points with the police, Mr. Ramirez said. ''If that same statement had been made in a church, I don't know if it would have had the consequences.'' He added that Mr. Ferrer had failed to choose words that reflected ''the breadth of his life'' on civil rights issues, and that the campaign had debated whether the candidate should apologize for his remarks but decided against it. 
 Mr. Pollock, speaking about Mr. Ferrer's subsequent dealings with the news media, said, ''I think the performance got angrier, and that didn't necessarily help in terms of dealing with it.'' 
 In contrast, Mr. Pollock said about Mr. Bloomberg's campaign, ''I don't think they made a lot of mistakes.'' 
 Mr. Ramirez agreed that from an incumbent's perspective, consenting to participate in only two debates was ''the right decision.'' 
 In his criticism of national Democrats, Mr. Ramirez pointed out that Howard Dean, the Democratic national chairman, had campaigned for Mr. Ferrer. Nick Baldick, Mr. Ferrer's campaign manager, also said the national party was not about to discipline Democrats who were major donors or fund-raisers in Washington but had defected to Mr. Bloomberg. Mr. Ramirez singled out Steven Rattner, a donor whose wife is the finance chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee. 
 In an interview after the forum, Mr. Ramirez attributed his passionate responses to his deeply felt loyalty to Mr. Ferrer as the city's first Hispanic nominee for mayor.
 ''This was a unique and special campaign, and what you saw today was a reaction to that and an attempt to point out that Freddy had a real message, that the media's treatment of him had consequences, and that all things being equal, as they were in the primary Freddy can win,'' Mr. Ramirez said.
 The campaign operatives, journalists, academics, politics observers and civic leaders who attended the forum offered some unusually candid insights into the back story of the mayoral race. 
 Mr. Baldick said Mr. Bloomberg owed Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, a ''bouquet'' for killing the mayor's proposed West Side stadium, which had become a political liability. 
 William T. Cunningham, a senior adviser to Mr. Bloomberg, said the stadium had helped win over construction unions because they ''saw a guy who was committed to building.'' He also acknowledged that a terror alert in October turned out to be a political asset because responding to a credible threat reminded voters of Mr. Bloomberg's leadership in revitalizing the city after 9/11.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); NEWS REPORTING (74%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); SHOOTINGS (50%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (75%) Sam Roberts; Fernando Ferrer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2005

 
