

201 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; THE CITY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Neighborhoods in Need of Middle Schools; A Former Firehouse That's Open to All; Congestion Pricing and Working Arists; Random Assignments for Arbitrators; The Real Pioneers in Untraveled Places (5 Letters)

 BODY:
Neighborhoods in Need of Middle Schools
 To the Editor:
 ''Wanted: A School of Their Own'' (July 29) presents a need for Brooklyn Heights families, stating that ''the best way to capitalize on the success of P.S. 8,'' the local elementary school, ''is to keep its graduates together in a new school,'' a public middle school ''of their own, preferably in their neighborhood.'' We living around the World Trade Center site could not agree more. 
 In a residential neighborhood that gets more than its fair share of attention, where our local public elementary schools are often touted as among the city's best, parents have been begging our government for such a neighborhood public middle school, with absolutely no results. In Battery Park City alone, in the past three years, there were letters signed by all parents, and resolutions sent to many, many officials. 
 A trip to our zoned middle school, Simon Baruch Middle School 104, on East 21st Street, takes a timed 60 minutes via public transportation, as my 10-year-old who will be entering this school next year can vouch. We who returned to this neighborhood after 9/11 to rebuild welcome the parents of Brooklyn Heights to this often ignored citywide struggle.
 Thomas S. Goodkind Battery Park City
 A Former Firehouse That's Open to All
 To the Editor:
 In ''Firefighting Up Close'' (F.Y.I., Aug. 5), a reader asks, ''Does the Fire Department have open houses?''
 Yes, New York, there is a firehouse that families can visit: a 1904 Beaux Arts building at 278 Spring Street in Manhattan. It's the New York City Fire Museum, the former home of the men of Engine 30 and their horses. 
 Amid the collection of 200 years' worth of engines and trucks, children and adults can pose for photos in turnout gear and helmets. The historic collection includes fire buckets dating back to Peter Stuyvesant's time, a beloved firehouse dog -- stuffed after his final ride when his firefighter friends could not bear to part with him! -- and a memorial to the 343 firefighters who made the ultimate sacrifice on Sept. 11, 2001.
 Knowledgeable light duty and retired Fire Department members are available to answer questions. Of course it's no longer a working firehouse, but it's the next best thing! 
 Judy Jamison SoHo
 The writer is director, New York City Fire Museum.
 Congestion Pricing and Working Arists
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Congestion Pricing, Still Alive'' (editorial, July 29):
 One of the most infuriating things about the congestion pricing plan is that it assumes everyone is the same, and that public transportation is always an available and viable alternative. How ironic that Mayor Bloomberg has neglected to consider the very people who make New York the arts capital he's claimed to care so much about. 
 Take musicians, many of whom need to navigate the city with large instruments and sound equipment in order to do what we do in the clubs and concert halls that contribute so much to the city's economy, vibrancy, reputation and very identity. 
 If a toll of less than $10 seems negligible, the fact is that many working musicians today earn no more than musicians did 50 years ago (that is no exaggeration, and that's actual dollars, not dollars adjusted for inflation). Musicians I know, myself among them, take public transportation when we can. But there are times it just doesn't work. 
 In fact, I'd like to see the mayor hop on subway during rush hour and then walk six blocks in the rain carrying an acoustic bass, an amp, a keyboard, music stands and a drum kit. 
 Andrea Wolper Boerum Hill, Brooklyn
 Random Assignments for Arbitrators
 To the Editor:
 In ''Mandatory Fairness'' (Op-Ed, July 22), Dirk Olin correctly praises the Legislature's failure to pass an immunity for arbitrators law. In my two-lawyer firm in Brooklyn we regularly speak to average working people who are victims of a civil wrong and discover that they will have no access to the legal system because at the courthouse door they must answer the question, ''How much justice can you afford?''
 Arbitration is a good idea and can make justice more accessible to everyday people. Putting arbitrators in a position of dependence on being chosen by the large corporate arbitration users tilts the playing field unfairly. 
 One way to try to fix the problem would be to end the process of having the parties choose their arbitrator. If we forbid ''judge shopping'' in a courthouse, the same should apply in arbitrations. The arbitration system needs an arbitrary referral process, the administration of which would be subsidized by an annual fee from the volume users so that arbitrators get randomly assigned by a computer. 
 Robert M. Salzman Downtown Brooklyn
 The Real Pioneers in Untraveled Places
 To the Editor:
 I find it ironic that Ben Gibberd selected Joe Anastasio, Miru Kim, Steve Duncan and Moses Gates as the central figures in ''Children of Darkness,'' his July 29 article about urban explorers, when even Mr. Gates mentions that graffiti artists are ''almost always first'' on the scene.
 Wouldn't it have been true to the article to profile what would most likely be young artists of color? The graffiti artists have the real story on what it means to conquer these hidden spaces. 
 Fatima Kafele East Flatbush, Brooklyn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (93%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); CHILDREN (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); WRITERS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); HORSES (62%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



202 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; WORD FOR WORD NEW RUSSIAN HISTORY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Yes, a Lot of People Died, but . . .

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW
 STALIN has undergone a number of transformations of his historical image in Russia, interpretations that say as much about the country's current leaders as about the dictator himself. 
 In the West, Stalin is remembered for the numbers of his victims, about 20 million, largely his own citizens, executed or allowed to die in famines or the gulag. They included a generation of peasant farmers in Ukraine, former Bolsheviks and other political figures who were purged in the show trials of the 1930s, Polish officers executed at Katyn Forest, and Russians who died in the slave labor economy. Stalin's crimes have been tied to his personality, cruelty and paranoia as well as to the circumstances of Russian and Soviet history.
 While not denying that Stalin committed the crimes, a new study guide in Russia for high school teachers views his cruelty through a particular, if familiar, lens. It portrays Stalin not as an extraordinary monster who came to power because of the unique evil of Communism, but as a strong ruler in a long line of autocrats going back to the czars. Russian history, in this view, at times demands tyranny to build a great nation. 
 The text reinforces this idea by comparing Stalin to Bismarck, who united Germany, and comparing Russia in the 1930s under the threat of Nazism to the United States after 9/11 in attitudes toward liberties. 
 The history guide -- titled ''A Modern History of Russia: 1945-2006'' -- was presented at a conference for high school teachers where President Vladimir V. Putin spoke; the author, Aleksandr Filippov, is a deputy director of a Kremlin-connected think tank. Excerpts from the guide follow. The text was translated by Nikolai Khalip and Michael Schwirtz in Moscow.
 JUST LIKE BISMARCK AND PETER
 As a result of the ''Big Purge'' of late 1930s, practically all members and candidates to become Politburo members elected after the 17th Party Congress suffered from reprisals to a certain degree....Postwar reprisals were quite similarly addressed... The number of victims of the Leningrad case reached about two thousand people. Many of them faced firing squads. Studies by Soviet and foreign historians confirmed that the ruling class was the priority victim of the repressions in 1930-1950.
 ...Stalin followed Peter the Great's logic: demand the impossible from the people in order to get the maximum possible. ...The result of Stalin's purges was a new class of managers capable of solving the task of modernization in conditions of shortages of resources, loyal to the supreme power and immaculate from the point of view of executive discipline.... 
 Thus, just like Chancellor Bismarck who united German lands into a single state by ''iron and blood,'' Stalin was reinforcing his state by cruelty and mercilessness. Strengthening the state, including its industrial and defensive might, he considered one of the main principles of his policy. 
 Indirect evidence of this can be found in the memoirs of his daughter Svetlana Alliluyeva. Every time he looked at her dress he always asked the same question, making a wry mouth: ''Is this foreign-made?'' and always cracked a smile when I answered, 'No, it was made here, locally.''
 A STRONG IF CRUEL LEADER
 A chapter ends with a brief broadening of the interpretation that hints at ways to discuss Stalin's personal flaws, and the fate of the millions of Soviet citizens who suffered and perished under his rule. But little detail is supplied on that last point, nor does the guide suggest how teachers might conduct more research on it. 
 ...It is common knowledge that power corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. It is well known from Russian history how corrupting a long term in power is. Biographies of such outstanding rulers as Peter the First and Catherine the Second prove it ...
 The leader's closest associate, V. M. Molotov, admitted that at the beginning Stalin struggled with his cult, but later on he developed a liking for it: ''He was very reserved in the first years, and then he put on airs.''
 As to what people think of Stalin, we can judge by an opinion poll conducted in February 2006 by Public Opinion Fund:
 If we speak as a whole of the role of Stalin in Russian history, was he positive or negative? Positive: 47 percent; negative: 29 percent; did not answer: 24 percent.
 Thus, there are grounds for controversial assessments of Stalin's role. On the one hand, he is considered one of the most successful leaders of the U.S.S.R. During his leadership the territory of the country was expanded and reached the boundaries of the former Russian Empire (in some areas even surpassed it). A victory in one of the greatest wars was won; industrialization of the economy and cultural revolution were carried out successfully, resulting not only in the great number of educated people but also in creating the best educational system in the world. The U.S.S.R. joined the leading countries in the field of science; unemployment was practically defeated.
 But there was a different side to Stalin's rule. The successes -- many Stalin opponents point it out -- were achieved through cruel exploitation of the population. The country lived through several waves of major repressions during his rule. Stalin himself was the initiator and theoretician of such ''aggravation of class struggle.'' Entire social groups were eliminated: well-off peasantry, urban middle class, clergy and old intelligentsia. In addition, masses of people quite loyal to the authorities suffered from the severe laws. 
 ECHOES OF 9/11
 The study guide pointedly refers to what it says are recent restrictions on American liberties undertaken to fight terrorism. 
 Political and historical studies show that when they come under similarly serious threats, even ''soft'' and ''flexible'' political systems, as a rule, turn more rigid and limit individual rights, as happened in the United States after September 11, 2001. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: EMBRACE AND EXILE: Stalin with a girl who later in life was sent to the gulag. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HENRY GUTTMAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FAMINE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UKRAINE (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



203 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Buy Low, Divorce High

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
FOR years, Michele Kleier, a real estate broker on the Upper East Side, knew why one of her most persistent clients was calling even before picking up the phone. 
 The client, a former high-ranking fashion executive and perpetual volunteer at her children's private schools, was checking the price she could get for her nine-room co-op in a prewar building. When the market reached a high, she told Ms. Kleier, she planned to divorce her husband, sell the apartment and live on her share of the profits.
 Last year, Ms. Kleier delivered the long-awaited news: Manhattan luxury apartments were at a peak. The client went through with her plan. Now the woman calls from her new condo in California, raving about the weather and the distance from her ex-husband.
 ''She felt that she couldn't walk out on him until she had the money to move away and buy something on her own,'' Ms. Kleier said. ''The real estate market allowed her to buy her freedom.'' 
 A little-noted side effect of the property boom of the past decade has been the real-estate-enabled divorce. Home values might have slid in some markets, but in the New York City region, where prices remain high, divorce professionals like therapists and lawyers, along with real estate brokers, say unhappily married couples are cashing in appreciated homes to underwrite a split. 
 ''The equity that there is in real estate is one of the impetuses why there are so many divorces,'' said Nancy Chemtob, a Manhattan divorce lawyer, adding that the net worth of her clients has doubled in the past three years mainly thanks to real estate. The price of the average Manhattan apartment was $1.3 million as of June, up 7 percent from a year ago, according to the real estate brokers Brown Harris Stevens.
 A spouse who has not worked, like Ms. Kleier's client, might decide that with a divorce settlement enriched by real estate, it is possible to maintain a comfortable standard of living. Or a breadwinning spouse might recognize that even after dividing community property, it will be possible to live well as a single person.
 ''No matter what the net worth of the client,'' Ms. Chemtob said, ''the $3 million apartment is now the $7 million apartment, and the $7 million apartment is the $14 million apartment. Half of a lot is a lot.'' 
 That is how Sharon Sheinker thinks about the real estate equity she and her ex-husband accumulated over a 16-year marriage, which she said made the decision to legally separate easier. 
 The former couple made enough on their first apartment in New Jersey, and then on a second home on Long Island, to build a five-bedroom house in a gated community in Dix Hills, on Long Island, four years ago, for $1.1 million. 
 They recently signed a contract to sell the house for $1.4 million, less than the asking price of $1.579 million. But Ms. Sheinker calculates a $60,000 profit each year over the past four years. She will use her share to buy a smaller house in Dix Hills and continue to run a charity, A Gift From Alexa, in honor of her 6-year-old daughter, who is autistic.
 ''Money is freedom,'' Ms. Sheinker said. ''I don't need the mansion. We made enough money to be able to get divorced and support two households.''
 Economists are familiar with this phenomenon. Even though divorce rates are declining over all, as far back as 1977 the economist Gary Becker showed that couples experiencing any unexpected, drastic rise in net worth are at risk of divorce. (The same holds true for a drastic decline in net worth.) 
 Extrapolating from survey data, Dr. Becker concluded in The Journal of Political Economy that ''a greater deviation between actual and expected earnings increases the probability'' of divorce. 
 Although couples who see their incomes rise steadily generally stay together, those who make more money than they ever expected are vulnerable to divorce. They realize that they are less financially dependent on each other and that they might have chosen different spouses if they had more choices at the time, said Dr. Becker, who teaches at the University of Chicago. 
 Dr. Becker, who won the Nobel Prize in 1992, also explored in his divorce study the economic argument for what many people today call trading up, or finding a trophy spouse. 
 Noting that 75 percent of men and more than 70 percent of women remarry within 15 years of a divorce, he found that divorced men with higher earnings have the greatest likelihood of remarrying. This implied, in his view, that men who have come into wealth have an incentive to divorce because they believe they could better their situation. 
 ''They feel, given their status now, they can find other people of a type that appeals to them more than when they got married,'' he said in a telephone interview. 
 Kenneth Mueller, an East Village psychotherapist, says he has about a half-dozen clients who are real estate executives. Some, he said, have used windfall wealth from property to strengthen their marriages -- like paying for counseling or adopting children. But others are emboldened to divorce and remarry. He said some men conclude that they can find a new spouse because their first wives were ''not what I really wanted.''
 Of course, not all couples sitting on greatly appreciated homes are headed for divorce court. The likelihood of divorce depends on the strength of a marriage before the advent of unexpected wealth, according to Evelyn Lehrer, an economist who expanded on Dr. Becker's findings in 2003. 
 In her study ''The Economics of Divorce,'' published in the book ''Marriage and the Economy: Theory and Evidence From Industrialized Societies,'' Professor Lehrer concluded that couples who are likely to divorce after an unexpected change in assets often had weaker marriages to begin with. It is not the new wealth that causes the divorce; the money is just the catalyst.
 Stephanie Coontz, the author of ''Marriage, a History: From Obedience to Intimacy, or How Love Conquered Marriage,'' compared the current Gilded Age to an earlier one in the 1920s, when, she said, divorces spiked at a time of rapid wealth creation. In times when people accumulate wealth, she said, they often think they don't have to abide by society's conventional rules.
 ''When people get a lot of wealth in a hurry, it's more easy to act upon their impulses,'' she said. ''You get used to sending back a steak because you don't like it. You send back a wife.''
 Real estate these days seems much on the minds of couples who are in counseling. Elyse Goldstein, an Upper East Side psychologist, said that half the couples she has seen in recent years have brought up real estate as a relationship issue, and 15 percent regarded it as a serious one. 
 ''Real estate has become a language of emotional barter in terms of registering pains, hurts and resentments,'' Dr. Goldstein said. ''If they can't have love, they can have real estate. There are a lot of fights about who is going to benefit from the windfall.'' 
 SUSAN KATZ, a fashion industry sales executive, said that real estate battles with her ex-husband over their home in Roslyn Heights, on Long Island, have dragged out over three years, involving three lawyers and $350,000 in legal fees. 
 She said that real estate was not the original cause of the divorce. But it has become the central issue as she and her ex-husband fight over what the house is worth, and how much she must pay to buy it from him. 
 Ms. Katz finds that some women who are divorcing can't cash in on the value of a home because they or their spouses borrowed against it. ''Women think when they get divorced they can have half of the house,'' she said. ''Most women don't realize how much this house is mortgaged.'' 
 And then there are cases in which couples decide a divorce settlement would ultimately be too costly because of the on-paper appreciation of their property. 
 One New York real estate executive, who has separated from his wife and would not speak on the record because he is unsure if he will divorce, said most of his peers in the industry who are unhappily wed seem to be staying put. They don't want to carve up the real estate portfolios they bought or built during the boom. 
 ''I know plenty of people who are enormously wealthy and just don't want to cut it up,'' he said. ''They find it hard to divide the real estate.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: TUG OF WAR: Susan Katz and her ex-husband have been fighting over their Roslyn Heights, N.Y., home for three years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 'MONEY IS FREEDOM': Sharon Sheinker and her ex will split the profit on the sale of their $1.4 million home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MARITAL PROPERTY (89%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); COMMUNITY PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FAMILY LAW (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (50%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



204 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Chicken Little's Brethren, on the Trading Floor

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE job of an economist, among many other duties, is to put things into perspective. So, because I am an economist, among other duties, here is a little perspective on the recent turmoil in the stock and bond markets.
 First, when the story of this turbulence is reported, the usual explanation mainly has to do with some new loss in the subprime mortgage world -- the universe of mortgages and mortgage-backed instruments related to buyers with poor credit histories or none at all.
 Here is the first instance in which proportion tells us that something is out of whack: 
 The total mortgage market in the United States is roughly $10.4 trillion. Of that, a little over 13 percent, or about $1.35 trillion, is subprime -- certainly a large sum. Of this, nearly 14 percent is delinquent, meaning late in payment or in foreclosure. Of this amount, about 5 percent is actually in foreclosure, or about $67 billion. Of this amount, according to my friends in real estate, at least about half will be recovered in foreclosure. So now we are down to losses of about $33 billion to $34 billion.
 The rate of loss in subprime mortgages keeps climbing. In time, perhaps it will double, maybe back to $67 billion. This is a large sum by absolute standards, and I would sure like to have it in my bank account.
 But by the metrics of a large economy, it is nothing. The total wealth of the United States is about $70 trillion. The value of the stocks listed in the United States is very roughly $15 trillion to $20 trillion. The bond market is even larger.
 Much more to the point, the fears and terrors about subprime mortgages have helped knock off 6.7 percent of the stock market's value in recent weeks. This amounts to about $1.1 trillion, or more than 30 times the losses so far in the subprime market. In other words, these subprime losses are wildly out of all proportion to the likely damage to the economy from the subprime problems.
 The disconnect goes even further. The Dow Jones industrial average has been heavily moved by fears about the subprime market. But how are most of the Dow 30 affected by subprime mortgages in any meaningful way? No Dow company is short of liquidity, and consumer spending is still strong.
 Foreign stocks, especially in developing countries, have been hard hit, and this is supposedly connected with a ''repricing of risk,'' which in turn is connected with subprime mortgages. But how are the risks in Thailand or Brazil or Indonesia intrinsically related to problems in a housing tract in Las Vegas? The developing countries are fantastically strong and liquid. Why should problems at a mortgage company in Long Island have anything to do with them?
 European stocks have also been hard hit, and this has to do with relatively small amounts of subprime in some European banks. On a global scale, the numbers in Germany and France are minuscule for subprime exposure. For European markets to fall on subprime issues makes no sense.
 News last Thursday that a small amount of unpriceable subprime mortgages was in a BNP Paribas fund in France sent the markets in Europe and the United States sharply lower. Why? The losses in France are at most in the single billions, while the losses in United States markets alone were in the hundreds of billions on the BNP news. 
 Then there is the supposed ''drying up'' of credit for private equity deals because of fears of risk. But this is also puzzling. I can't think of a single recent major private equity deal in which the bonds have defaulted. 
 More to the point, suppose that all private equity deals were stalled for a year. Why should this affect the Dow? None of companies in the Dow 30 is having trouble raising cash. And suppose that all private equity deals went away for good. Taken together, they are not all that big a piece of the United States economy. Why should they put the markets of the richest nation in the world, as well as all of the world's other markets, into turmoil?
 Then let's take a peek at Bear Stearns. This venerable and clever financial house has taken some major hits on subprime mortgages lately. That is sad for the stockholders (I am a very small stockholder), and the price of Bear Stearns stock has tumbled. 
 A little over a week ago, news about Bear Stearns' liquidity issues lowered the its market value by about more than $1 billion in one day. That is a big hit to a single company, to be sure, but then came the shocker: that news also helped wipe out hundreds of billions off the total value of United States stocks.
 MY point is this: I don't know where the bottom is on subprime. I don't know how bad the problems are at Bear. Yet I do know that the market reactions are wildly out of proportion to the real problems that have been revealed. Maybe there is some giant thing hiding in the closet that might rationalize the market's fears. But if it's hidden, how can the market be reacting to it in the first place?
 More will be revealed, as the saying goes. But recently, investors have been selling out of all relation to what we know. Reassurances in word and deed from Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, helped calm the markets on Friday. But recent events are a disturbing commentary on the power of fear.
 This economy is extremely strong. Profits are superb. The world economy is exploding with growth. To be sure, terrible problems lurk in the future: a slow-motion dollar crisis, huge Medicare deficits and energy shortages. But for now, the sell-off seems extreme, not to say nutty. 
 Some smart, brave people will make a fortune buying in these days, and then we'll all wonder what the scare was about. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (Drawing PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



205 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: A Beloved Woodstock Nation Site Goes on Sale, for $8 Million

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

DATELINE: BETHEL, N.Y., Aug. 9 

 BODY:
Inside an old wood-beamed farmhouse with picture windows on a hillside here, the chirp of the telephone pierced the air roughly every five minutes Thursday morning with another inquiry about the sale of ''Yasgur's Farm,'' a house and a piece of land that the 1969 Woodstock music festival made famous, at least among members of the scattered tribe of a certain time.
 ''That's right, that's right, we're moving, permanently, to Phoenix,'' said Roy Howard, 73, speaking into the phone and pacing back and forth along the length of a kitchen counter that was covered with papers, bills and unopened solicitations from AARP.
 He and his companion, Jeryl Abramson, 53, have lived with this piece of the Woodstock legacy for two decades. They have tried in their way to be good conservators: For more than a decade, beginning around the 25th anniversary of the festival in 1994, they held Woodstock ''reunions'' that drew musicians and a few hundred to a few thousand spectators, who camped on their 100-acre homestead for the three days in August near the anniversary dates of Aug. 15, 16 and 17. 
 The singers Melanie and Country Joe McDonald, both members of the original Woodstock lineup, performed at some of them. Lots of lesser-knowns came and made good music. A few people had their weddings during those weekends. People Ms. Abramson and Mr. Howard call ''the hippie tribe'' found a spiritual center there, they said.
 But Ms. Abrahamson and Mr. Howard are getting older. They have had a long-running, sometimes bitter conflict with the town about permits and no-camping rules. And for a host of other reasons, maybe just like a lot of people in their cohort, they are ready to sell the house and retire to the Southwest. They put it up for sale this week. They are asking $8 million.
 And at that price, they are not adding any stipulation requiring new owners to open their property to future reunions.
 ''Things just sort of came together, where we felt ready,'' Mr. Howard told one of the many callers. ''Yes, we'll be here. Just give a shout before you come.''
 The house where they live with their son, Zack Howard, 14, was once the home of Max Yasgur, a dairy farmer and a major landowner in this part of Sullivan County, about 90 miles north of New York. By a quirk of fate in the mostly regimented and low-profile life of a farmer, he earned a special footnote of affection in the American cultural history of sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll:
 On short notice, in August 1969, Mr. Yasgur leased a 300-acre alfalfa field to the organizers of the Woodstock music festival. And that, in the shorthand of all the notions and emotions generated there on his trampled field, became Woodstock. The festival was named for the town 75 miles away where it was originally to be held, and from which it had to be rerouted at the last minute because of permit problems.
 Mr. Yasgur is a revered figure in the folklore of Woodstock for his impromptu accommodation and for his brief but heartfelt address to the half million people who lived in his field for three days. (It is captured in the 1970 movie documentary of the event: ''The important thing that you've proven to the world is that a half million people can get together,'' he says, ''and have nothing but fun and music. And God bless you for it.'') 
 Joni Mitchell put him in the first verse of her song titled ''Woodstock.'' When she comes upon a ''child of God'' walking along the road, he tells her: ''I'm going on down to Yasgur's Farm, I'm going to join in a rock 'n' roll band. I'm going to camp out on the land, and get my soul free.''
 Mr. Yasgur died in 1973. Mr. Howard and Ms. Abramson, who owned a package store and beverage distributorship in the area, bought his home and about 100 acres around it in 1985.
 Of course, everything having to do with Woodstock and its time has drifted to a locus a few degrees of separation from its beginnings. And so it is with Yasgur's Farm, and with the town of Bethel, and the whole gestalt of the Woodstock Nation counterculture thing.
 The house and barn and acreage around it, for instance, are actually more than a mile away from the place where Woodstock, the event, took place. It was all of a piece in 1969, but parts have since been sold off.
 And the place where the event happened, in all its unpredictable and magical permutations, was sold to a nonprofit foundation set up by a billionaire entrepreneur and former marine named Alan Gerry. Mr. Gerry built an open-air performing arts center there with seating for 5,000, lawn space for 12,000, an air-conditioned museum pavilion, a staff of guides who wear uniform lavender T-shirts, and a kiosk where the hard of hearing can rent amplification devices. Smoking is not allowed anywhere on the grounds. 
 Bob Dylan performed at the new arts center in June; Arlo Guthrie will this month. There is lots of security. Food must be carried in one-gallon plastic bags. There is no camping.
 Most people in town are happy with it, and hope it will help the local economy. But among the remnants of the hippie tribe, some of whom live here year-round, there is a sense of loss in the coming of what they see as a prettified and manicured version of the Woodstock idea. 
 ''I've been over there to the arts center, man, and it's very nice, but that place is just another 'venue,' '' said John Jules, 45, a local musician. He and some area residents were at a bar called Hector's discussing the ramifications of the coming end of Yasgur's Farm. ''Roy wasn't perfect, but what he tried to do was much more in the spirit of Woodstock. People got together. They really made a community together in those reunions.''
 Harold Russell, the supervisor of the Town of Bethel and himself a farmer who owns the dairy processing facility that used to be Yasgur's, said he felt no sense of loss about this. His home and dairy sit next door to the property now belonging to Mr. Howard and Ms. Abramson, and he was never fond of their reunions.
 ''If people want to come here and celebrate Woodstock, that's fine. But in today's society, people expect everything to be done properly. Someone gets sick at one of these unregulated events, and the town can get sued.''
 Mr. Howard grimaces at mention of ''the millionaire's place,'' as he calls the new center. He contends (as he also did in a federal lawsuit, which he eventually lost) that the town's crackdown on his reunions was done to benefit Mr. Gerry and his performance center. (Matthew McNeil, the center's director of marketing, says this is false.)
 ''But we're finished with that,'' said Mr. Howard, sitting in a reclining chair, gazing through his window at a field of grass that was once contiguous with the field of alfalfa that was for three days in 1969 the site of the second-largest city in the state of New York. 
 ''Now I'm just worrying about when we leave here, what I'm going to do with all my stuff.''
 They have already purchased a large and comfortable home just outside Phoenix. But there is no barn there, no hundred acres.
 Then the phone started ringing again. And when he answered it, his gaze moved to a place and time somewhere in the distance between here and there.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Reunion concerts are still held on the land, as a sign hints.
 Roy Howard on his land, which was once Yasgur's Farm, the site of Woodstock festival in 1969. He is moving to Arizona. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); POP & ROCK (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); HISTORY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (72%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



206 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Rocking The Boat, But Why?

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
 WALL STREET responded to the Federal Reserve's interest rate announcement last week with firm, if rapidly fluctuating, conviction. Stock prices and Treasury bond yields fell sharply, then rose, then continued to swing energetically through the week -- and that was after the Fed left rates unchanged. 
 Trading may be volatile again, and the best way to deal with this week's economic reports may be to ignore them. ''At the end of the day, let's face it, none of this stuff matters,'' said Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research, uttering a remark that might get him drummed out of the analysts' union.
 What does matter is not what investors know but what they cannot know yet: whether problems in the housing market will spread through the economy via collapsing prices of speculative debt instruments, Mr. Yardeni said. Instead, he said, traders are making snap inferences or reacting to the snap inferences of others.
 ''In some ways, the markets have become a big Rorschach test as investors see what the trading pattern looks like during the day and, based on that, draw all sorts of conclusions about the credit market turmoil and the likely consequences for the economy,'' he said. ''When the stock market is down, everyone is convinced that the world is coming to an end. Wait a couple of days and the market goes the other way.''
 Mr. Yardeni's view is that the world may end for some companies that got in over their heads in issuing subprime mortgages or other paper of dubious quality. For most lenders and for the financial system and economy, he said, the world will keep spinning.
 ''There is a lot of fear based on a little information that tends to drive the market,'' he said.
 Economic data may be best left unparsed these days, but other developments would provide early evidence of more widespread difficulties, Mr. Yardeni said. He would be worried if credit spreads -- the gap between yields on Treasury bonds and more iffy issues -- were to widen further or if smaller companies were to continue to underperform; that would indicate that these businesses are having trouble obtaining financing, thus hindering growth and employment prospects.
 DATA WATCH For those eagerly awaiting the economic reports, highlights include readings on Tuesday for wholesale prices for July and on Wednesday for retail prices. A Bloomberg News poll of economists forecasts increases of 0.2 percent for each, once volatile food and energy items are excluded.
 News from the home construction sector is due Thursday, with slight declines anticipated in July housing starts and building permits. The next day, the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey is expected to show weakened sentiment in early August; the Bloomberg poll calls for a reading of 88 after 90.4 in July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



207 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; INVESTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Weakness in a Sector Known for Its Strength

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
FINANCIAL stocks, particularly those of major investment banks, have outperformed the broader stock market in recent years. But in 2007, those stocks have fallen under a cloud. In June, they began a sharp decline that anticipated and exceeded the stock market's subsequent midsummer swoon.
 The reason was concern on Wall Street that with the credit markets in turmoil, the big investment banks would be hit hard, and in two important ways. First, there could be a decline in mergers and acquisitions, which have been a rich source of fees to the banks. Second, some of them might be carrying substantial amounts of relatively risky debt on their balance sheets.
 On one point, there seems to be consensus. Because the banks have offered few details on precisely what loans they have made, and to whom, there is no telling just how much exposure they have to loans of deteriorating or even negligible value. ''We really don't know who's caught with the garbage in their portfolios; it's really kind of a mystery,'' said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company. 
 Two hedge funds managed by Bear Stearns, which held securities backed by subprime mortgages that had declined sharply in value, collapsed last month. On Thursday, the French bank BNP Paribas froze $2.2 billion from three funds with exposure to United States subprime mortgages, and two funds run by Goldman Sachs have sustained big losses. 
 Several Wall Street analysts say they are not entirely confident about the quality of the balance sheets of the big, publicly traded investment banks.
 ''No one understands what loans or securities are held by the investment banks,'' said Richard X. Bove, financial strategist at the investment banking boutique Punk Ziegel & Company. ''The banks simply refuse to disclose that information.'' Mr. Bove is pessimistic about the prospects of the stocks of the investment banks and the broader market, saying they could fall another 15 percent. ''I don't think the selling has run its course,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bove issued a prescient sell signal on brokerage stocks on July 18, urging investors to liquidate holdings of Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers. All fell sharply after his call, Goldman, for example by roughly 18 percent. 
 Other analysts argue that even with the risk of loan write-downs, the investment banks and the broader market are likely to stabilize and even rebound. ''At this point, it looks like something the economy can absorb. I'm still positive on the broader market,'' said Avery Shenfeld, senior economist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto. The brokerage stocks, he allowed, ''might get cheaper still'' and ''it will be months, not weeks'' before it is clear just how much risk still sits on their balance sheets. 
 But the global economy remains strong, he noted, and offers continuing opportunities for many American companies. Because borrowing costs have been rising, investors should look for companies that have solid credit ratings or at least do not have heavy borrowing needs, Mr. Shenfeld said. 
 Tobias Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citigroup, remains bullish on the broad market, though in a July 30 report to clients he acknowledged ''a new worry'' relating to the confluence of two factors in the debt markets: an inverted yield curve and a spike in the interest rates on high-risk, or ''junk'' loans. Currently, the yield on the federal funds rate, 5.25 percent, exceeds that of the 10-year Treasury note. The only two previous times that junk rates spiked as the yield curve inverted in this way, in 1990 and 2001, recessions followed, he said.
 But other indicators lead Mr. Levkovich to believe that the markets should be fine for the next 6 to 12 months. He relies on a measure that compares the number of companies planning to raise prices with the number planning to increase wages. With the balance still weighted to the price hikers, Mr. Levkovich expects continued profit growth for corporate America, along with continued market volatility. ''We're going to get bumped around,'' he said. 
 Along with Mr. Metz of Oppenheimer, Mr. Levkovich favors General Electric and other large-capitalization stocks, which, he said, tend to fare well during periods of increased volatility and slowing earnings growth. They also tend to do well when consumer delinquencies rise and credit spreads widen. 
 Weakness in investment banking and brokerage stocks may have run its course, Mr. Levkovich added. ''It's understandable people have sold these stocks,'' he said, ''but we think it's overdone.'' One favorite is Merrill Lynch, which he says has been relatively prudent in chasing business. ''They're probably a bit more cautious than the others,'' he said. ''Their risk controls are stronger in extending credit.'' 
 Other analysts, however, stress the continuing risk of investment bank stocks. Outsiders cannot easily assess the quality of loans on these firms' books, with much of the debt valued according to arcane pricing models that have not been tested in an inhospitable market climate. With relatively risky debt, like securities backed by subprime mortgages, in disfavor in the market, the banks face the prospect of writing down some of their loan portfolios. 
 In addition, the tightening of the credit markets threatens to short-circuit the private equity buyout boom that had been a bonanza for investment banks, which earned $13 billion in fees related to such buyouts last year, according to Eric Weber, managing director of Freeman & Company, an advisory firm to financial institutions. In the first half of 2007, the banks took in an additional $8 billion in such fees, Mr. Weber said. 
 Mr. Metz of Oppenheimer said that there were already signs that this source of income is diminishing. ''I think it's going to slow down dramatically,'' he said. 
 IN a similar vein, Jim McDonald, director of equity research at Northern Trust, said that ''there is a likely scenario that there will be a reduced volume of deal activity.'' Mr. McDonald advises caution on investment banking stocks until some clarity emerges about their loan exposure. ''It would surprise me if it all settled out in less than a couple of months,'' he said.
 Mr. Metz said: ''My feeling is we're in a new environment. There are so many negative unknowns.'' He recommended that investors put their money into companies with strong balance sheets, citing 3M and Procter & Gamble, along with G.E., as reasonably safe bets. 
 But Mr. Metz said that he would avoid the brokers. ''I would not go into the financials, cheap as they look,'' he said. And he remains wary of the broader market. ''It's hard to postulate a strong market,'' he said, ''if these financial stocks continue to be weak.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); MERGERS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BNP PARIBAS SA (90%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (68%); LADENBURG THALMANN FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (65%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (59%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (59%); MORGAN STANLEY (59%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); BNP (PAR) (90%); BNP (BIT) (90%); LTS (NYSE MKT) (65%); MS (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



208 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2312 words

HEADLINE: Far From the Reservation, but Still Sacred?

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Yuma, Ariz.
 SQUINTING against the harsh desert sun, Mike Jackson, leader of the Quechan Indians, looks out past his tribe's casino and the modern sprawl of Yuma and points to the sandy flatlands and the rust-colored Gila mountain range shimmering in the distance. ''They came this way,'' he says, describing how his ancestors followed the winding course of the Colorado River and ranged over hundreds of miles of what is now western Arizona and southeastern California. ''There's a lot of important history here, both for the Quechan and the U.S.''
 And if it's up to him, that history will go a long way in determining the future of this corner of the West, one of the fastest-growing parts of the country and a place where developers are increasingly running up against newly powerful but tradition-minded American Indian leaders like Mr. Jackson. 
 As president of the Quechans over the last decade, Mr. Jackson is leading a new kind of Indian war, this time in the courts. The battlegrounds are ancient sites like the religious circles, burial grounds and mountaintops across the West that Indians hold sacred and are protected by federal environmental and historic preservation laws. After successful smaller battles, Mr. Jackson is now challenging a bigger project, arguing that the construction of a planned $4 billion oil refinery in Arizona could destroy sites sacred to his tribe.
 What makes this case different from more traditional fights between Indians and developers is that the refinery isn't on the Quechan reservation or even next to it. In fact, the refinery is planned for a parcel of land some 40 miles to the east of the reservation, on the other side of Yuma and the Gila mountain range. But Mr. Jackson and the tribe's lawyers argue that before the land can be transferred to the company building the refinery, Arizona Clean Fuels, or construction can start, an exhaustive archaeological and cultural inventory must take place.
 The Quechans are not a large tribe. Also known as the Yuma Indians (they prefer the name Quechan, which means ''those who descended''), they number about 3,300 and their reservation on the California-Arizona border covers roughly 70 square miles. That is a small fraction of the size of lands the federal government set aside more than a century ago to better-known nations like the Apaches or Navajos. Mr. Jackson has already stopped two planned projects -- a low-level nuclear dump and a $50 million gold mine on the California side of the border -- both also well away from the Quechan reservation. This year, he helped defeat the nomination of a Bush administration official who favored the mine to a federal appellate court. 
 LIKE the land itself, the fight over the refinery reflects a tangle of cultures and centuries of bitterness between Indians and newcomers. Mr. Jackson says it's about respect for Quechan culture, and a new willingness on the part of Indians to stand up to the local establishment after centuries of not having a say. Business and political leaders in Yuma argue that it's little more than a land grab by Mr. Jackson, a dubious attempt by the tribe to block much-needed development and assert claims to territory lost long ago.
 What's more, says Glenn McGinnis, chief executive of Arizona Clean Fuels, a preliminary inspection failed to turn up evidence of ruins near the site, which was privately owned for decades by local farmers but was later bought by the federal government to acquire water rights. 
 In any case, Mr. McGinnis says he's committed to protecting any sacred remains that turn up once construction begins. But doing the more extensive survey sought by Mr. Jackson and the Quechans now would not only delay the project by months, it would also cost about $250,000, which Arizona Clean Fuels would be obligated to cover.
 The dispute is about more than money, though. It has also brought resentment of the tribe's newfound clout to the surface. David Treanor, vice president of Arizona Clean Fuels, calls the Quechans' stance ''psychological imperialism'' and compares Mr. Jackson to Hugo Chavez, Venezuela's left-wing leader.
 Casey Prochaska, chairwoman of the Yuma County Board of Supervisors, adds: ''My grandmother probably went across here in a covered wagon. This country didn't stop because they walked over this land.'' 
 Indeed, the refinery isn't even the main issue for some business leaders. ''It's a question of how far does their sphere of influence go,'' says Ken Rosevear, executive director of the Yuma County Chamber of Commerce. ''Does it go clear to Phoenix? To Las Vegas? The whole West?''
 Mr. Rosevear may be exaggerating, but his fear illustrates just what's at stake. If the Quechans' lawsuit succeeds, it would bolster the efforts of other, larger tribes to block development on territory where they also once lived and prayed. 
 ALREADY, in northern Arizona, Navajos, Hopis and other Indians have effectively stopped plans to expand a ski resort roughly 50 miles from the nearest reservation, after convincing a federal appellate panel in March that using wastewater to make artificial snow would desecrate peaks long held sacred. 
 Leaders of the Northern Cheyenne tribe, meanwhile, have been using similar arguments to block drilling for coal-bed methane near their reservation in Montana. Pumping water out of underground aquifers to extract natural gas will harm the spirits that inhabit the springs and streams where the Northern Cheyenne worship, says Gail Small, a Northern Cheyenne tribe member who heads Native Action, an environmental group she founded after graduating from law school. 
 Adding weight to her argument is the American Indian Religious Freedom Act, passed by Congress in 1978, which acknowledges the link between native American religion and land both on and off the reservation.
 ''You're seeing a real renaissance of tribes becoming aware of their cultural resources and heritage, and reclaiming that heritage even when it's off the reservation,'' says Robert A. Williams Jr., a law professor at the University of Arizona who has advised tribes on the legal issues surrounding off-reservation sacred sites.
 And, thanks to the rise of casino gambling on Indian reservations, many tribes now have the money to challenge natural resource companies, real estate interests and other wealthy players who have long held sway in the West. 
 ''Tribes no longer have to hope for or rely upon the efforts of outside environmental groups or pro bono law firms,'' says Joseph P. Kalt, director of the Harvard Project on American Indian Economic Development. ''Not only are they much more sophisticated, but they have the money to fight for themselves.''
 Mr. Jackson doesn't dispute that the opening of the popular Paradise Casino on his reservation in 1996 has shifted the balance of power in these parts. ''It's made all the difference in the world,'' he says. ''We didn't have the money to hire attorneys before; we didn't have the tools. We also learned how to play the political game in America that's been played against us in the past.''
 During the winter months, when snowbirds fill local hotels, it's hard to find a spot in the Paradise Casino parking lot on some nights, and the casino generates an estimated $45 million a year in net revenue for the Quechans.
 Mr. Jackson isn't always against new development. The Quechans are considering building a second casino on the California side of the border, and he has faced protests of his own from tribal elders who argue that the $200 million project also happens to be on sacred ground. In June, the Quechan police force arrested tribe members protesting at the site of the new casino. Yuma officials like Ms. Prochaska call that hypocrisy, but Mr. Jackson says it's not up to them to decide what is sacred to Indians and what's not. 
 The son and grandson of tribal leaders, Mr. Jackson, who is 60, says that in the past, ''the government gave us funds just to survive and they didn't hear a word from our people.'' Now, he says, local leaders like Mr. Rosevear have to come to him. ''They come, smile, and shake my hand, but they don't like it. Too bad. That is how the process is now.''
 Glamis Gold, the Canadian mining company that sought to build the California mine, learned that the hard way several years ago. After investing $15 million, the company watched Mr. Jackson tie up the project with regulators. It was finally killed when Gray Davis, then the governor of California, issued an emergency order. 
 Charles A. Jeannes, an executive at Glamis at the time, says the company tried to negotiate with Mr. Jackson. ''We'd told them we'd discuss any number of kinds of compensation,'' says Mr. Jeannes, now executive vice president of Goldcorp, which acquired Glamis in 2006. ''But we never got specific because they made it clear they wouldn't accept the mine.'' 
 Mr. Jackson has a slightly different recollection. ''They came and offered money, trucks and other things,'' he says. ''I told them I'm not going to take one penny, and to get out of my office.''
 In Quechan lore, dreams are sacred -- they are a literal path to knowledge and power. So perhaps it's fitting that the refinery has been a business dream in Arizona for two decades, a long-talked-about project that if completed, would be the first new refinery constructed in the United States in more than 30 years. 
 It's also a vision that could prove hugely profitable. Refining margins in the Southwest are among the healthiest in the country, while gasoline demand in Arizona, Nevada and California has been growing at twice the national average. And until Mr. Jackson and the Quechans challenged their plans, the 1,400-acre site seemed like the rare spot in America where a refinery might actually be welcomed.
 The last fruit orchard on the site died out decades ago, after the federal government acquired the land and bought up the water rights. The nearest homes are miles away. Now the silence is broken only by the sound of passing freight trains and the occasional rumble from the Army's Yuma Proving Ground.
 Earlier this year, the government transferred the land intended for the refinery to the local irrigation district, which in turn sold it to Arizona Clean Fuels for $15 million in March. It's this transfer that the Quechans are challenging in their suit, arguing that procedures required under federal law to protect Indian sites were not followed properly.
 Mr. McGinnis, a soft-spoken veteran refining executive who retains the accent of his native Toronto, says he is sensitive to the tribe's worries. And unlike other officials, he shies away from criticizing Mr. Jackson or the Quechans. 
 ''But there's not a whole lot here,'' he says, pointing to the furrowed ground and a few remaining tree stumps bleached white by the sun. ''The probability of finding any relics is next to zero because the land has been disturbed and farmed for a long, long time. But we'll bring in surveyors to walk the site, and I committed to that two years ago.''
 Bringing in experts once the project is under way isn't enough for Mr. Jackson. He says that he's not against the refinery but merely wants experts to survey 100 percent of the land now, before any land transfer is approved by the courts. Still, it's clear he's not happy that the government is selling land to private buyers like Arizona Clean Fuels. ''If they have no use for it, give it back to us,'' he says of the federal government's move. ''We know how to protect it; it's our ancestral land.''
 FOR Arizona Clean Fuels and Mr. McGinnis, the Quechan lawsuit couldn't have come at a worse time. After years of negotiations, the company renewed its state emissions permit last September. Now, Arizona Clean Fuels, which is owned by individual investors in the Western United States, is seeking an outside institutional backer with deep-enough pockets to put up the initial $1.5 billion to start construction and eventually borrow an additional $2.5 billion to finish the refinery by 2011.
 Mr. McGinnis says he's negotiating with two investor groups over that crucial $1.5 billion initial investment. But the lawsuit is a distraction for him, and a worry for any potential financial backer. ''We spend half our time dealing with our attorneys on this when we should be dealing with other things,'' he says.
 The tribe's effort to seek a preliminary injunction was rejected in federal district court in late June, but now the Quechans are appealing to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, a traditionally liberal panel that has been sympathetic to Indian claims in the past, including the suit over the ski resort.
 Both sides seem to be digging in, even though Mr. Jackson has never visited the refinery site, and Mr. McGinnis has never spoken directly to Mr. Jackson. ''We've had many doors slammed in our face in the past,'' says Mr. Jackson, sitting in the tribe's council chambers on the reservation. ''But that's the old way. Today, my foot is in the door and I'm going to kick it wide open for my people.''
 Mr. McGinnis avoids responding to that challenge. Because of the lawsuit, he says he hasn't picked up the phone to call Mr. Jackson directly, but adds that ''our attorneys have requested meetings and I'll sit down with him anywhere and anytime he wants.'' 
 That's not likely to happen soon, and Mr. Jackson says he is willing to take the suit to the Supreme Court if necessary. As was the case with the gold mine, he doesn't seem interested in a financial settlement with Arizona Clean Fuels but is focused on the land itself. ''We're a tenacious people,'' he says, citing earlier fights of a different kind between the Quechans and the Spanish, the Mexicans and the United States cavalry. ''We're still here. The cavalry is gone.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The proposed site of an oil refinery, 40 miles east of the Quechan Indian tribe's reservation in Yuma, Ariz. The tribe is fighting to stop the refinery, saying the land could hold sacred remains. (pg. BU1)
Mike Jackson, leader of the Quechan Indians, outside tribal offices near Yuma, Ariz. He fights the development of land the tribe considers sacred
The success of the Paradise Casino has given the Quechans more resources to make their case in disputes
Casey Prochaska, chairwoman of Yuma County's Board of Supervisors, is skeptical of the tribe's contentions that relics are on a proposed refinery site. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF TOPPING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU8) MAP: ''A Tribe's Long Reach'' The Quechan tribe has opposed, and helped to halt, several industrial projects near the California-Arizona border. ''NUCLEAR WASTE DUMP'' In 1998, backers abandoned plans for a low-level nuclear waste dump in Ward Valley in California after resistance from the Quechans and other tribes
''GOLD MINE'' Glamis Gold, a Canadian company, sought to build an open-pit mine in the Imperial Valley, but Quechan opposition eventually led California officials to kill the project in 2003
 ''OIL REFINERY'' Investors have hoped for decades to build a refinery in the Arizona desert, but the Quechans argue that it could destroy sites sacred to the tribe and have filed suit in federal court to halt construction. (pg. BU8) Map shows Quechan Reservation in Arizona. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORY (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); DESERTS (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (70%); LAWYERS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); APPEALS COURTS (66%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (66%); RELIGION (66%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (65%); NUCLEAR WASTE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YUMA, AZ, USA (97%) ARIZONA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



209 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Democrats' Third Rail: Free Trade

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
 THE Democratic presidential candidates all sounded the same critical note about the North American Free Trade Agreement when they debated in front of an audience of union members in Chicago on Tuesday.
 ''Well, I had said that for many years that, you know, Nafta and the way it's been implemented has hurt a lot of American workers,'' said Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, conveniently not mentioning that her husband wrapped up the trade pact's negotiations and pushed it through Congress when he was president.
 ''We should never have another trade agreement unless it enforces labor protection, environmental standards and job safety,'' chimed in Gov. Bill Richardson, who as a Democratic whip in the House in 1993 helped Mr. Clinton win approval of the trade deal with Mexico and Canada. 
 There has always been a huge space between what candidates say when they're running for president and what they actually do in office. When it comes to trade, that space is bigger than on most issues -- particularly for Democrats. Far more than their Republican counterparts, Democratic presidential candidates rely on labor unions -- committed free trade foes -- for money and manpower. 
 On the campaign trail, cozying up to labor by bashing trade makes short-term sense. Everyone does it. Mr. Clinton did so when he was campaigning in 1992, and that is partly why the labor unions were so mad at him when he became president and then pushed through Nafta and other trade deals, including the pact that established the World Trade Organization, and even negotiated China's entry into the global trading system.But once a candidate becomes president, things change. And that's where the space between what a candidate says on the campaign trail and what he or she does after being elected shows up. Even staunch free trade foes who welcome the trade-bashing during primary season acknowledge this fact of life. 
 ''I don't have my head in the sand,'' said John Sellers, president of the Ruckus Society, a human rights advocacy group that opposes most trade pacts. ''I have a hard time believing that this is anything but spin on their part. Nafta and the most nefarious anti-labor agreements in the W.T.O. were all ratified under the Democrats' watch.''
 For the Democrats, it can be a tough row to hoe. Although the consensus is fragmenting somewhat, most economists still agree that free trade, for the most part, helps the economy, through increased job creation and lower prices, more than it hurts it, through jobs lost to low-wage competitors around the world. Overall, the aggregate benefits of globalization to American consumers, economists say, outweigh the costs and painful dislocations for workers and families and even whole towns, no matter that the losers are more easily identifiable -- and vocal -- than the winners. 
 Writ large, that argument falls back on a principle that has fueled the free trade argument for more than a century: nations flourish by focusing on their comparative advantage -- the things that they do best -- and trading with other countries for the things that those countries are more efficient at producing. 
 But this argument has zero resonance when presidential candidates are facing an audience of union members in Chicago who are worried that their jobs are being outsourced to India. So, with the exception of Representative Dennis Kucinich, who announced Tuesday night, to ringing applause, that during his first week in office as president he would withdraw from Nafta and the World Trade Organization, the rest of the Democrats at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. forum were more cautious. When asked whether, for all of their Nafta-bashing, they would pull the United States out of the trade pact, they quickly veered to vague talk about stronger worker protections.
 ''I would immediately call the president of Mexico, the president of Canada, to try to amend Nafta because I think that we can get labor agreements in that agreement right now,'' said Senator Barack Obama, before quickly taking refuge in talking points about corporate lobbyists and how important it is that ''trade agreements be good for Main Street as well as Wall Street.'' Even former Senator John Edwards, who has worked hard to win over the unions, stopped short of calling for the United States to pull out of Nafta. 
 ''Scrap it or fix it?'' the moderator, Keith Olbermann of MSNBC, asked.
 ''It needs to be fixed,'' Mr. Edwards said, then quickly changed the subject to take a swipe at Mrs. Clinton, who was recently featured on the cover of Fortune with the headline ''Business Loves Hillary (Who Knew?).''
 ''The one thing you can count on is you will never see a picture of me on the front of Fortune magazine saying, 'I am the candidate that big corporate America is betting on.' That will never happen,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''That's one thing you can take to the bank.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (93%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



210 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; PUBLIC AND PRIVATE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: In the Current Foreclosure Crisis, Echoes of the Past

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
IT is now widely believed that the aggressive mortgage lending during the recent real estate boom was unprecedented. In the final counting, that assessment may well be accurate.
 But some housing experts whose careers date back to the 1960s say they hear the distinct echo of a government program from 35 years ago in the current mortgage crisis.
 Consider flipping -- the practice of reselling a home quickly after buying it for a large profit. If you think real estate deals got out of hand in the recent housing boom, take this case from 1970 that was detailed in a Congressional investigation: An investor paid $1,800 for a boarded-up house in Paterson, N.J., in November of that year, made $450 in electrical repairs, and resold it the next March for $20,000. The house was deemed unfit to live in, but the speculator still made a handsome profit -- in today's dollars, $95,000. 
 Compare that to a lucrative deal from 2005 that was described in a lawsuit: An investor bought 184 duplexes in a run-down Indianapolis neighborhood in May for an average of $50,000 each and flipped them, with little or no repair work, for $120,000 a few weeks later. The average profit per home was $70,000. Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest home lender, sued to recover losses after foreclosures. 
 There are obvious differences between the government program, which was run by the Federal Housing Administration and known as Section 235, and the aggressive private-sector practices of recent years known as subprime lending. But in both cases the victims were often the borrowers and their neighborhoods, which were left pockmarked by abandoned property that worsened the broader urban ills of drug abuse, high crime and unemployment. 
 In recent weeks, attention has been focused on losses rippling across the global financial system as a result of loose mortgage lending. But the impact is often felt most viscerally in lower-income neighborhoods in Detroit, Cleveland, Brooklyn, Baltimore and Atlanta. Many were ground zero for the F.H.A. program as well. 
 ''It's deja vu all over again,'' said Calvin Bradford, a housing researcher and consultant who has written about the F.H.A. and the current mortgage problems. ''It has the same underlying economic causes, even if the actors are different. It's a variation on a theme, but the theme is the same.''
 In the F.H.A. program, the government paid out hundreds of millions in claims for defaulted mortgages and was left owning tens of thousands of abandoned homes. Today, the losses are being borne by investors in hedge funds and banks like Bear Stearns. 
 Both the government program and the recent lending trends were expected to produce admirable results: increased homeownership and opportunities in the market for people who had previously been denied credit. 
 In the 1960s, housing inequality became a critical issue after race riots in big cities. Congress passed an ambitious housing bill in 1968 directing changes at F.H.A., which until the 1950s openly redlined black and Hispanic neighborhoods.
 ''I remember President Johnson surveying Newark after the riots and remarking that in black neighborhoods where people owned their own homes there hadn't been destruction, people protected their homes,'' said Michael A. Stegman, director of policy and housing at the MacArthur Foundation. 
 In recent years, the mortgage banking industry has cited its role in advancing homeownership. The number of black and Hispanic families owning homes has risen in the last 10 years, though the gap between white and minority ownership rates has not shrunk.
 In both eras, lenders and the government fundamentally altered the system of making loans to reduce the risk of default -- or so they thought. People involved in making the loans -- mortgage brokers, appraisers, real estate agents and lenders -- would not bear the risks of the transactions. They would be paid when the loan was closed or sold.Certainly borrowers bear responsibility, too. Many were speculating on rising home prices and with zero-down-payment mortgages. 
 At the end of March, nearly 20 percent of loans to subprime borrowers -- those with weak credit history -- were past due or in foreclosure. 
 Mortgage bankers note that 80 percent of loans are still being paid and 68 percent of American households own their homes. Douglas Duncan, the chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association, said policy makers never say what they would consider a ''socially acceptable rate of foreclosure.''
 But Alfred A. DelliBovi, the president of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, said 20 percent was not acceptable. ''One in five homes on the block abandoned, in disrepair, with the grass overgrown, becoming a potential drug den and flop house is a pretty bad deterioration,'' he said.
 Today, lawmakers want to crack down on the professionals involved in making the loans, as did after the earlier crisis.But some experts say that won't address the larger problem. ''You put people in a position where they make lots of money if they close the deal,'' Mr. Bradford said. 
 Some mortgage brokers acknowledge that lending might be more conservative if the mortgage professionals were compensated differently -- say through a monthly payment based on how well the loans performed. Another popular proposal is to allow the F.H.A. to to insure no-down-payment loans and price its insurance based on the risks associated with the borrowers.
 But Mr. Stegman, who worked on housing in the Carter and Clinton administrations, said down payments are important because even at low amounts they give borrowers a reason to stick around if they suffer financial hardship.
 ''I don't see anything wrong with getting people into homes by helping them save for it and prepare for it,'' he said. ''We want to help people and ensure long-term success.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: DESERTED: A duplex in an Indianapolis neighborhood hit by foreclosures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM STRATTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LITIGATION (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (68%) INDIANA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



211 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: India's Whiskey-Drinking Elite Make Room for Wine

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: GUNDAMAKERE, India 

 BODY:
They used to grow millet in the lap of these gentle hills, and mulberry trees to eke out silkworms. Today, the land is home to Kapil Grover's shiraz vines. 
 Mr. Grover's father, Kanwal, fueled by a stubborn passion, began growing wine grapes here in southern India as early as 1989, several years before the Indian economy shed its socialist garb and the moneyed classes multiplied. Last year, the winery produced 1.25 million bottles, easily double the production of two years ago. 
 Today, Mr. Grover watches the bittersweet fruits of globalization ripen. 
 Luckily for him, the tiny Indian wine market is poised to grow by leaps as the country's erstwhile whiskey-drinking elite cultivates a taste for wine. At the same time, stiff competition looms: Prompted by complaints filed by the European Union and United States at the World Trade Organization, India reduced tariffs on imported liquor in July, potentially making a shiraz from Coonawarra, Australia, for instance, as affordable as Mr. Grover's offering from Gundamakere. Tariffs must be capped at 150 percent now, from rates that were as high as 550 percent. 
 While more than a third of all Indians live on less than $1 a day, the country's nose for wine, an outgrowth of new wealth and world travel among India's swelling ranks of the rich, can be discerned in the wine clubs sprouting across India's new-money citadels, the wine tours of the young Indian vineyards and the wider variety of wines now available at upmarket restaurants. 
 ''Lately, it's a style statement,'' said Aslam Gafoor, a hospitality industry executive, at a wine tasting in Bangalore, a three-hour drive from these fields. Several Australian varietals were offered that evening at the host restaurant, Olive Beach, with a ratings card for the tasters. The table had been loaded with Parma ham and cheddar, Kalamata olives and figs.
 Wine is hardly a cheap thrill here. Olive Beach offers a 2003 Sassicaia for about $400 (and occasionally sells it). A 2005 Cakebread Cellars sauvignon blanc from Napa Valley goes for $100 at the Park Hotel, not far away. 
 Indian supermarkets, themselves a new phenomenon, are preparing to devote shelves to wine; right now, buying wine means jostling with the drinking masses at state-owned liquor shops. New Indian wineries are being established, including one by Seagram, the first foreign liquor company to start producing wine here. Sula Vineyards has opened a tasting room on its estate in western Maharashtra State. And almost everyone, it seems, is homing in on the first-time Indian wine drinker with inexpensive and easy-on-the-palate offerings. 
 Mr. Grover, for instance, has a line of slightly sweeter wine that he calls Sante. ''An easy name to pronounce,'' he says, for his target audience of the pub-going younger set. 
 This year, Vijay Mallya, the baron of Kingfisher beer, will introduce something called Zinzi, in two no-fuss varieties -- red and white. The goal, company officials say, is to lure -- not intimidate -- young Indian professionals. ''You talk about cabernet sauvignon, sauvignon blanc, they don't understand the language,'' said Abhay Kewadkar, the winemaker for Mr. Mallya's Bangalore-based United Breweries. ''They are exposed to this Western lifestyle. They want to be stylish. Wine fits that bill.'' 
 United Breweries clearly aims to play both ends of desire. It is not only producing wine in India, but also bringing in foreign wines -- including its own. The company bought a Loire Valley winery in France last year and, Mr. Kewadkar said, is shopping for others in California and South Africa. ''Today,'' he says brashly, ''there's a market for everything.'' 
 Mr. Grover hopes Indian lawmakers will raise state liquor taxes. Some already have, making sure that foreign wines remain substantially costlier than local ones. It helps that local politicians have a stake in some vineyards. 
 Aman Dhall, director of Brindco, an importer of wine who owns a stake in Grover, says he hopes Indian wineries will mature and improve, so they can compete. ''Indian wine producers will have to drive up quality,'' he said. 
 In India, the wine market has grown at an enviable 30 to 40 percent over the last year, though it remains small, with sales of 600,000 to 800,000 cases last year, depending on whether wine made from table grapes is counted, according to wine producers and importers who track the numbers. 
 Put another way, Mr. Dhall cautions, what India consumes year-round is what Britain drinks during the Christmas season. 
 At a Sunday evening dinner at the Hyatt Regency held by the Delhi Wine Club, tandoori shrimp was paired with a 2001 Pommard. After a palate cleanser of melon and mint sorbet, a Santa Rosa cabernet accompanied baked paneer, or cheese, for the vegetarians, tandoori lamb chops for the rest. The Chilean ambassador was the guest of honor. He has been known to recommend Viognier with the classic Punjabi dish -- butter chicken.
 Vijay Kumar Ahuja, a maker of printing materials, said he was drawn to wine when a friend, who happened to be sitting across the table this evening, served it at his daughter's wedding eight years ago. The next year, Mr. Ahuja served it at his own sons' weddings. Recently, he took a chance and presented a bottle of Barolo to a business client. He got a call from the client's wife two days later, thanking him. Mr. Ahuja took that as a sign of changing times. Before he would never think to offer anything but stronger stuff. 
 ''What whiskey are you serving, that's what mattered,'' Mr. Ahuja recalled. 
 ''If you serve wine at a business dinner you feel you rate, you're different from the others,'' said Rakesh Bagai, a friend across the table who also deals in printing materials. ''Very few do it,'' he said. 
 ''A certain set,'' Bindu Talwar piped in from the next chair, as she dug into her lamb. ''The well heeled, the well traveled.'' She found the cabernet too warm. Room temperature, she said, does not mean room temperature in Delhi in the monsoon.
 No matter the buzz about wine, Indian taste buds are notoriously hard to change, and Subhash Arora, the founder of the wine club, said he had given up trying to convert the ''hard-core whiskey drinker.'' 
 ''At the end of the day, they want the 'nasha,' '' he rued. Nasha is Hindi for intoxication. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Delhi Wine Club gathered at the Hyatt Regency Hotel last month. Pairings included a 2001 Pommard with tandoori shrimp
 Manu Chandra, left, the chef at Olive Beach restaurant in Bangalore, India, examined an Australian wine during a tasting.(Photographs by J. Adam Huggins for The New York Times) MAP: The Grovers planted grapes in Gundamakere in 1989. Map shows Gundamakere, India 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); WINE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); WINERIES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); LODGING (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); PORK (70%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

COMPANY: COONAWARRA AUSTRALIA PROPERTY TRUST (90%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

TICKER: CNR (ASX) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (90%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); DELHI, INDIA (78%) SOUTH INDIA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



212 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LOSING THE ADVANTAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5325 words

HEADLINE: How the 'Good War' in Afghanistan Went Bad

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE and DAVID E. SANGER; Carlotta Gall contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Two years after the Taliban fell to an American-led coalition, a group of NATO ambassadors landed in Kabul, Afghanistan, to survey what appeared to be a triumph -- a fresh start for a country ripped apart by years of war with the Soviets and brutal repression by religious extremists.
 With a senior American diplomat, R. Nicholas Burns, leading the way, they thundered around the country in Black Hawk helicopters, with little fear for their safety. They strolled quiet streets in Kandahar and sipped tea with tribal leaders. At a briefing from the United States Central Command, they were told that the Taliban were now a ''spent force.'' 
 ''Some of us were saying, 'Not so fast,' '' Mr. Burns, now the under secretary of state for political affairs, recalled. ''While not a strategic threat, a number of us assumed that the Taliban was too enmeshed in Afghan society to just disappear.'' 
 But that skepticism had never taken hold in Washington. Since the 2001 war, American intelligence agencies had reported that the Taliban were so decimated they no longer posed a threat, according to two senior intelligence officials who reviewed the reports.
 The American sense of victory had been so robust that the top C.I.A. specialists and elite Special Forces units who had helped liberate Afghanistan had long since moved on to the next war, in Iraq.
 Those sweeping miscalculations were part of a pattern of assessments and decisions that helped send what many in the American military call ''the good war'' off course. 
 Like Osama bin Laden and his deputies, the Taliban had found refuge in Pakistan and regrouped as the American focus wavered. Taliban fighters seeped back over the border, driving up the suicide attacks and roadside bombings by as much as 25 percent this spring, and forcing NATO and American troops into battles to retake previously liberated villages in southern Afghanistan. 
 They have scored some successes recently, and since the 2001 invasion, there have been improvements in health care, education and the economy, as well as the quality of life in the cities. But Afghanistan's embattled president, Hamid Karzai, said in Washington last week that security in his country had ''definitely deteriorated.'' One former national security official called that ''a very diplomatic understatement.''
 President Bush's critics have long contended that the Iraq war has diminished America's effort in Afghanistan, which the administration has denied, but an examination of how the policy unfolded within the administration reveals a deep divide over how to proceed in Afghanistan and a series of decisions that at times seemed to relegate it to an afterthought as Iraq unraveled.
 Statements from the White House, including from the president, in support of Afghanistan were resolute, but behind them was a halting, sometimes reluctant commitment to solving Afghanistan's myriad problems, according to dozens of interviews in the United States, at NATO headquarters in Brussels and in Kabul, the Afghan capital. 
 At critical moments in the fight for Afghanistan, the Bush administration diverted scarce intelligence and reconstruction resources to Iraq, including elite C.I.A. teams and Special Forces units involved in the search for terrorists. As sophisticated Predator spy planes rolled off assembly lines in the United States, they were shipped to Iraq, undercutting the search for Taliban and terrorist leaders, according to senior military and intelligence officials.
 As defense secretary, Donald H. Rumsfeld claimed credit for toppling the Taliban with light, fast forces. But in a move that foreshadowed America's trouble in Iraq, he failed to anticipate the need for more forces after the old government was gone, and blocked an early proposal from Colin L. Powell, then the secretary of state, and Mr. Karzai, the administration's handpicked president, for a large international force. As the situation deteriorated, Mr. Rumsfeld and other administration officials reversed course and cajoled European allies into sending troops.
 When it came to reconstruction, big goals were announced, big projects identified. Yet in the year Mr. Bush promised a ''Marshall Plan'' for Afghanistan, the country received less assistance per capita than did postconflict Bosnia and Kosovo, or even desperately poor Haiti, according to a RAND Corporation study. Washington has spent an average of $3.4 billion a year reconstructing Afghanistan, less than half of what it has spent in Iraq, according to the Congressional Research Service.
 The White House contends that the troop level in Afghanistan was increased when needed and that it now stands at 23,500. But a senior American commander said that even as the military force grew last year, he was surprised to discover that ''I could count on the fingers of one or two hands the number of U.S. government agricultural experts'' in Afghanistan, where 80 percent of the economy is agricultural. A $300 million project authorized by Congress for small businesses was never financed. 
 Underlying many of the decisions, officials say, was a misapprehension about what Americans would find on the ground in Afghanistan. ''The perception was that Afghans hated foreigners and that the Iraqis would welcome us,'' said James Dobbins, the administration's former special envoy for Afghanistan. ''The reverse turned out to be the case.''
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice defended the administration's policy, saying, ''I don't buy the argument that Afghanistan was starved of resources.'' Yet she said: ''I don't think the U.S. government had what it needed for reconstructing a country. We did it ad hoc in the Balkans, and then in Afghanistan, and then in Iraq.'' 
 In interviews, three former American ambassadors to Afghanistan were more critical of Washington's record.
 ''I said from the get-go that we didn't have enough money and we didn't have enough soldiers,'' said Robert P. Finn, who was the ambassador in 2002 and 2003. ''I'm saying the same thing six years later.''
 Zalmay Khalilzad, who was the next ambassador and is now the American ambassador to the United Nations, said, ''I do think that state-building and nation-building, we came to that reluctantly,'' adding that ''I think more could have been done earlier on these issues.''
 And Ronald E. Neumann, who replaced Mr. Khalilzad in Kabul, said, ''The idea that we could just hunt terrorists and we didn't have to do nation-building, and we could just leave it alone, that was a large mistake.''
 A Big Promise, Unfulfilled
 After months of arguing unsuccessfully for a far larger effort in Afghanistan, Mr. Dobbins received an unexpected call in April 2002. Mr. Bush, he was told, was planning to proclaim America's commitment to rebuild Afghanistan.
 ''I got a call from the White House speech writers saying they were writing a speech and did I see any reason not to cite the Marshall Plan,'' Mr. Dobbins recalled, referring to the American rebuilding of postwar Europe. ''I said, 'No, I saw no objections', so they put it in the speech.''
 On April 17, Mr. Bush traveled to the Virginia Military Institute, where Gen. George C. Marshall trained a century ago. ''Marshall knew that our military victory against enemies in World War II had to be followed by a moral victory that resulted in better lives for individual human beings,'' Mr. Bush said, calling Marshall's work ''a beacon to light the path that we, too, must follow.''
 Mr. Bush had belittled ''nation building'' while campaigning for president 18 months earlier. But aware that Afghans had felt abandoned before, including by his father's administration after the Soviets left in 1989, he vowed to avoid the syndrome of ''initial success, followed by long years of floundering and ultimate failure. 
 ''We're not going to repeat that mistake,'' he said. ''We're tough, we're determined, we're relentless. We will stay until the mission is done.'' 
 The speech, which received faint notice in the United States, fueled expectations in Afghanistan and bolstered Mr. Karzai's stature before an Afghan grand council meeting in June 2002 at which Mr. Karzai was formally chosen to lead the government.
 Yet privately, some senior officials, including Mr. Rumsfeld, were concerned that Afghanistan was a morass where the United States could achieve little, according to administration officials involved in the debate.
 Within hours of the president's speech, Mr. Rumsfeld announced his own approach at a Pentagon news conference.
 ''The last thing you're going to hear from this podium is someone thinking they know how Afghanistan ought to organize itself,'' he said. ''They're going to have to figure it out. They're going to have to grab ahold of that thing and do something. And we're there to help.''
 But the help was slow in coming. Despite Mr. Bush's promise in Virginia, in the months that followed his April speech, no detailed reconstruction plan emerged from the administration. Some senior administration officials lay the blame on the National Security Council, which is charged with making sure the president's foreign policy is carried out.
 The stagnation reflected tension within the administration over how large a role the United States should play in stabilizing a country after toppling its government, former officials say. 
 After the fall of the Taliban in December 2001, Mr. Powell and Ms. Rice, then the national security adviser, argued in confidential sessions that if the United States now lost Afghanistan, America's image would be damaged, officials said. In a February 2002 meeting in the White House Situation Room, Mr. Powell proposed that American troops join the small international peacekeeping force patrolling Kabul and help Mr. Karzai extend his influence beyond the capital. 
 Mr. Powell said in an interview that his model was the 1989 invasion of Panama, where American troops spread out across the country after ousting the Noriega government. ''The strategy has to be to take charge of the whole country by military force, police or other means,'' he said.
 Richard N. Haass, a former director of policy planning at the State Department, said informal talks with European officials had led him to believe that a force of 20,000 to 40,000 peacekeepers could be recruited, half from Europe, half from the United States. 
 But Mr. Rumsfeld contended that European countries were unwilling to contribute more troops, said Douglas J. Feith, then the Pentagon's under secretary for policy. He said Mr. Rumsfeld felt that sending American troops would reduce pressure on Europeans to contribute, and could provoke Afghans' historic resistance to invaders and divert American forces from hunting terrorists. Mr. Rumsfeld declined to comment.
 Some officials said they also feared confusion if European forces viewed the task as peacekeeping while the American military saw its job as fighting terrorists. Ms. Rice, despite having argued for fully backing the new Karzai government, took a middle position, leaving the issue unresolved. ''I felt that we needed more forces, but there was a real problem, which you continue to see to this day, with the dual role,'' she said.
 Ultimately, Mr. Powell's proposal died. ''The president, the vice president, the secretary of defense, the national security staff, all of them were skeptical of an ambitious project in Afghanistan,'' Mr. Haass said. ''I didn't see support.''
 Mr. Dobbins, the former special envoy, said Mr. Powell ''seemed resigned.''
 ''I said this wasn't going to be fully satisfactory,'' he recalled. ''And he said, 'Well, it's the best we could do.' ''
 In the end, the United States deployed 8,000 troops to Afghanistan in 2002, with orders to hunt Taliban and Qaeda members, and not to engage in peacekeeping or reconstruction. The 4,000-member international peacekeeping force did not venture beyond Kabul.
 As an alternative, officials hatched a loosely organized plan for Afghans to secure the country themselves. The United States would train a 70,000-member army. Japan would disarm some 100,000 militia fighters. Britain would mount an antinarcotics program. Italy would carry out changes in the judiciary. And Germany would train a 62,000-member police force. 
 But that meant no one was in overall command, officials now say. Many holes emerged in the American effort.
 There were so few State Department or Pentagon civil affairs officials that 13 teams of C.I.A. operatives, whose main job was to hunt terrorists and the Taliban, were asked to stay in remote corners of Afghanistan to coordinate political efforts, said John E. McLaughlin, who was deputy director and then acting director of the agency. ''It took us quite awhile to get them regrouped in the southeast for counterterrorism,'' he said of the C.I.A. teams.
 Sixteen months after the president's 2002 speech, the United States Agency for International Development, the government's main foreign development arm, had seven full-time staffers and 35 full-time contract staff members in Afghanistan, most of them Afghans, according to a government audit. Sixty-one agency positions were vacant.
 ''It was state-building on the cheap, it was a duct tape approach,'' recalled Said T. Jawad, Mr. Karzai's chief of staff at the time and Afghanistan's current ambassador to Washington. ''It was fixing things that were broken, not a strategic approach.''
 A Shift of Resources to Iraq
 In October 2002, Robert Grenier, a former director of the C.I.A.'s counterintelligence center, visited the new Kuwait City headquarters of Lt. Gen David McKiernan, who was already planning the Iraq invasion. Meeting in a sheet metal warehouse, Mr. Grenier asked General McKiernan what his intelligence needs would be in Iraq. The answer was simple. ''They wanted as much as they could get,'' Mr. Grenier said. 
 Throughout late 2002 and early 2003, Mr. Grenier said in an interview, ''the best experienced, most qualified people who we had been using in Afghanistan shifted over to Iraq,'' including the agency's most skilled counterterrorism specialists and Middle East and paramilitary operatives. 
 That reduced the United States' influence over powerful Afghan warlords who were refusing to turn over to the central government tens of millions of dollars they had collected as customs payments at border crossings.
 While the C.I.A. replaced officers shifted to Iraq, Mr. Grenier said, it did so with younger agents, who lacked the knowledge and influence of the veterans. ''I think we could have done a lot more on the Afghan side if we had more experienced folks,'' he said. 
 A former senior official of the Pentagon's Central Command, which was running both wars, said that as the Iraq planning sped up, the military's covert Special Mission Units, like Delta Force and Navy Seals Team Six, shifted to Iraq from Afghanistan. 
 So did aerial surveillance ''platforms'' like the Predator, a remotely piloted spy plane armed with Hellfire missiles that had been effective at identifying targets in the mountains of Afghanistan. Predators were not shifted directly from Afghanistan to Iraq, according to the former official, but as new Predators were produced, they went to Iraq. 
 ''We were economizing in Afghanistan,'' said the former official, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to comment publicly. ''The marginal return for one more platform in Afghanistan is so much greater than for one more in Iraq.''
 The shift in priorities became apparent to Dov Zakheim, the Pentagon's former comptroller, as planning for the Iraq war was in high gear in the fall of 2002. Mr. Rumsfeld asked him to serve as the Pentagon's reconstruction coordinator in Afghanistan. It was an odd role for the comptroller, whose primary task is managing the Pentagon's $400 billion a year budget. 
 ''The fact that they went to the comptroller to do something like that was in part a function of their growing preoccupation with Iraq,'' said Mr. Zakheim, who left the administration in 2004. ''They needed somebody, given that the top tier was covering Iraq.''
 In an interview, President Bush's national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley, insisted that there was no diversion of resources from Afghanistan, and he cited recently declassified statistics to show that troop levels in Afghanistan rose at crucial moments -- like the 2004 Afghan election -- even after the Iraq war began.
 But the former Central Command official said: ''If we were not in Iraq, we would have double or triple the number of Predators across Afghanistan, looking for Taliban and peering into the tribal areas. We'd have the 'black' Special Forces you most need to conduct precision operations. We'd have more C.I.A.''
 ''We're simply in a world of limited resources, and those resources are in Iraq,'' the former official added. ''Anyone who tells you differently is blowing smoke.''
 A Piecemeal Operation
 As White House officials put together plans in the spring of 2003 for President Bush to land on the deck of the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln and declare the end of major combat operations in Iraq, the Pentagon decided to make a similar, if less dramatic, announcement for Afghanistan. 
 On May 1, hours before Mr. Bush stood beneath a ''Mission Accomplished'' banner, Mr. Rumsfeld appeared at a news conference with Mr. Karzai in Kabul's threadbare 19th-century presidential palace. ''We clearly have moved from major combat activity to a period of stability and stabilization and reconstruction activities,'' he said. ''The bulk of the country today is permissive, it's secure.''
 The Afghanistan announcement was largely lost in the spectacle of Mr. Bush's speech. But the predictions of stability proved no less detached from events on the ground. 
 Three weeks later, Afghan government workers who had not been paid for months held street demonstrations in Kabul. An exasperated Mr. Karzai publicly threatened to resign and announced that his government had run out of money because warlords were hoarding the customs revenues. ''There is no money in the government treasury,'' Mr. Karzai said.
 At the same time, the American-led training of a new Afghan Army was proving far more difficult than officials in Washington had expected. The new force, plagued by high desertion rates, had only 2,000 soldiers. The Germans' effort to train police officers was off to an even slower start, and the British-led counternarcotics effort was dwarfed by an explosion in the poppy crop. Already, small groups of Taliban fighters had slipped back over the border from Pakistan and killed aid workers, stalling reconstruction in the south.
 A senior White House official said in a recent interview that in retrospect, putting different countries in charge of different operations was a mistake. ''We piecemealed it,'' he said. ''One of the problems is when everybody has a piece, everybody's piece is made third and fourth priority. Nobody's piece is first priority. Stuff didn't get done.''
 A month after his announcement in Kabul, Mr. Rumsfeld's aides presented a strategy to the White House aimed at weakening warlords and engaging in state-building in Afghanistan. In some ways, it was the approach Mr. Rumsfeld had rejected right after the invasion.
 Pentagon officials said that Mr. Rumsfeld's views began to shift after a December 2002 briefing by Marin Strmecki, an Afghanistan expert at the Smith Richardson Foundation, who argued that Afghanistan was not ungovernable and that it could be turned into a moderate, Muslim force in the region.
 Mr. Strmecki said that the United States needed to help Afghans create credible national institutions and that Pashtuns, Afghanistan's largest ethnic group and historically the Taliban's base of support, needed a more prominent role in the government. Mr. Rumsfeld, according to aides, was impressed by Mr. Strmecki's emphasis on training Afghans to run their own government and hired him. 
 Then another personnel change helped alter Afghanistan policy. Mr. Khalilzad, an Afghan-American who was a senior National Security Council official and a special envoy to Iraq exiles, was appointed ambassador to Afghanistan. 
 Mr. Khalilzad said he accepted the job after Mr. Bush promised to greatly expand resources in Afghanistan. ''We had gotten the president to a significant increase,'' Mr. Khalilzad recalled.
 A leading neo-conservative, Mr. Khalilzad could get Ms. Rice or -- if need be -- Mr. Bush on the phone. He had been a counselor to Mr. Rumsfeld and had worked for Dick Cheney when Mr. Cheney was the first President Bush's defense secretary. ''Zal could get things done,'' said Lt. Gen. David W. Barno, a former American military commander in Afghanistan. 
 When Mr. Khalilzad arrived in Kabul on Thanksgiving 2003, he brought nearly $2 billion -- twice the amount of the previous year -- as well as a new military strategy and private experts to intensifying rebuilding.
 They started a reconstruction plan dubbed ''accelerating success'' that involved the kind of nation-building once dismissed by the administration. General Barno expanded ''Provincial Reconstruction Teams'' to build schools, roads and wells and to win the ''hearts and minds'' of Afghans. The teams amounted to a much smaller version of the force that Mr. Powell had proposed 18 months earlier.
 By January 2004, Afghanistan had reached a compromise on a new Afghan Constitution. With American backing, Mr. Karzai weakened several warlords. In October 2004, Mr. Karzai, who had been appointed president, was elected. At the same time, NATO countries steadily sent more troops to Afghanistan, and soon Mr. Rumsfeld, needing for troops for Iraq, proposed that NATO take over security for all of Afghanistan.
 By spring 2005, Afghanistan seemed to be moving toward the success Mr. Bush had promised. But then, fearing that Iraq was spinning out of control, the White House asked Mr. Khalilzad to become ambassador to Baghdad. 
 A Lingering Threat
 Before departing Afghanistan, Mr. Khalilzad fought a final battle within the administration. It revealed divisions within the American government over Pakistan's role in aiding the Taliban, a delicate subject as the administration tried to coax Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, to cooperate.
 In an interview on Afghan television, Mr. Khalilzad noted that Pakistani journalists had recently interviewed a senior Taliban commander in Pakistan. He questioned Pakistan's claim that it did not know the whereabouts of senior Taliban commanders -- a form of skepticism discouraged in Washington, where the administration's line had always been that General Musharraf was doing everything he could.
 ''If a TV station can get in touch with them, how can the intelligence service of a country, which has nuclear bombs, and a lot of security and military forces, not find them?'' Mr. Khalilzad asked.
 Pakistani officials publicly denounced Mr. Khalilzad's comments and denied that they were harboring Taliban leaders. But Mr. Khalilzad had also exposed the growing rift between American officials in Kabul and those in Islamabad. 
 Mr. Grenier said that when he was the C.I.A. station chief in Islamabad the issue of fugitive Taliban leaders was repeatedly raised with senior Pakistani intelligence officials in 2002. ''The results were just not there,'' he recalled. ''And it was quite clear to me that it wasn't just bad luck.''
 Pakistani had backed the Taliban throughout the 1990s as a counterweight to an alliance of northern Afghan commanders backed by India, Pakistan's bitter rival. Pakistani officials also distrusted Mr. Karzai. 
 Deciding that the Pakistanis would not act on the Taliban, Mr. Grenier said he had urged them to focus on arresting Qaeda members, who he said were far more of a threat to the United States. 
 ''From our perspective at the time, the Taliban was a spent force,'' he said, adding, ''We were very much focused on Al Qaeda and didn't want to distract the Pakistanis from that.''
 But Mr. Khalilzad, American military officials and others in the administration argued that the Taliban were crossing from Pakistan into Afghanistan and killing American troops and aid workers. ''Colleagues in Washington at various levels did not recognize that there was the problem of sanctuary and that this was important,'' Mr. Khalilzad said.
 But it was not until 2006, after ordering a study on Afghanistan's future, that Mr. Bush strenuously pressed General Musharraf on the Taliban. Later, Mr. Bush told his aides he worried that ''old school ties'' between Pakistani intelligence and the Taliban endured, despite the general's assurances. The Pakistanis, one senior American commander said, were ''hedging their bets.''
 ''They're not sure that we are staying,'' he added. ''And if we are gone, the Taliban is their next best option'' to remain influential in Afghanistan.
 As 2005 ended, the Taliban leaders remained in hiding in Pakistan, waiting for an opportunity to cross the border. Soon, they would find one.
 To Afghans, a Fickle Effort
 In September 2005, NATO defense ministers gathered in Berlin to complete plans for NATO troops to take over security in Afghanistan's volatile south. It was the most ambitious ''out of area'' operations in NATO history, and across Europe, leaders worried about getting support from their countries. Then, American military officials dropped a bombshell. 
 The Pentagon, they said, was considering withdrawing up to 3,000 troops from Afghanistan, roughly 20 percent of total American forces. 
 NATO's secretary general, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, said he had protested to Mr. Rumsfeld that a partial American withdrawal would discourage others from sending troops. 
 In the end, the planned troop reduction was abandoned, but chiefly because the American ground commander at the time, Lt. Gen. Karl W. Eikenberry, concluded that the Taliban were returning and that he needed to shift troops to the east to try to stop them. But the announcement had sent a signal of a wavering American commitment.
 ''The Afghan people still doubt our staying power,'' General Eikenberry said. ''They have seen the world walk away from them before.''
 To sell their new missions at home, British, Dutch and Canadian officials portrayed deployments to Afghanistan as safe, and better than sending troops to Iraq. Germany and Italy prevented their forces from being sent on combat missions in volatile areas. Those regions were to be left to the Americans, Canadians, British and Dutch.
 Three months after announcing the proposed troop withdrawal, the White House Office of Management and Budget cut aid to Afghanistan by a third. 
 Ms. Rice said that much of the money allocated to Afghanistan the previous year had not been spent. ''There was an absorption problem,'' she said. 
 Mr. Neumann, then the ambassador, said he had argued against the decision.
 Even so, American assistance to Afghanistan dropped by 38 percent, from $4.3 billion in fiscal 2005 to $3.1 billion in fiscal 2006, according to a study by the Congressional Research Service. 
 By February 2006, Mr. Neumann had come to the conclusion that the Taliban were planning a spring offensive, and he sent a cable to his superiors.
 ''I had a feeling that the view was too rosy in Washington,'' recalled Mr. Neumann, who retired from the State Department in June. ''I was concerned.''
 Mr. Neumann's cable proved prophetic. In the spring of 2006, the Taliban carried out their largest offensive since 2001, attacking British, Canadian and Dutch troops in southern Afghanistan. 
 Hundreds of Taliban swarmed into the south, setting up checkpoints, assassinating officials and burning schools. Suicide bombings quintupled to 136. Roadside bombings doubled. All told, 191 American and NATO troops died in 2006, a 20 percent increase over the 2005 toll. For the first time, it became nearly as dangerous, statistically, to serve as an American in Afghanistan as in Iraq. 
 Mr. Neumann said that while suicide bombers came from Pakistan, most Taliban fighters in southern Afghanistan were Afghans. Captured insurgents said they had taken up arms because a local governor favored a rival tribe, corrupt officials provided no services or their families needed money.
 After cutting assistance in 2006, the United States plans to provide $9 billion in aid to Afghanistan in 2007, twice the amount of any year since 2001.
 Despite warnings about the Taliban's resurgence from Mr. Neumann, Mr. Khalilzad and military officials, Ms. Rice said, ''there was no doubt that people were surprised that the Taliban was able to regroup and come back in a large, well-organized force.''
 Divisions Over Strategy
 In July 2006, NATO formally took responsibility for security throughout Afghanistan. To Americans and Europeans, NATO is the vaunted alliance that won the cold war. To Afghans it is little more than a strange, new acronym. And NATO and the Americans are divided over strategy. 
 The disagreement is evident on the wall of the office of Gen. Dan K. McNeill, the commander of the 35,000 NATO forces in Afghanistan, where he keeps a chart that is a sea of yellow and red blocks. Each block shows the restrictions that national governments have placed on their forces under his command. Red blocks represent tasks a country will not do, like hunting Taliban or Qaeda leaders. Yellow blocks indicate missions they are willing to consider after asking their capitals for approval.
 In Washington, officials lament that NATO nations are unwilling to take the kinds of risks and casualties necessary to confront the Taliban. Across Europe, officials complain the United States never focused on reconstruction, and they blame American forces for mounting air attacks on the Taliban that cause large civilian casualties, turning Afghans against the West. 
 The debate over how the 2001 victory in Afghanistan turned into the current struggle is well under way.
 ''Destroying the Al Qaeda sanctuary in Afghanistan was an extraordinary strategic accomplishment,'' said Robert D. Blackwill, who was in charge of both Afghanistan and Iraq policy at the National Security Council, ''but where we find ourselves now may have been close to inevitable, whether the U.S. went into Iraq or not. We were going to face this long war in Afghanistan as long as we and the Afghan government couldn't bring serious economic reconstruction to the countryside, and eliminate the Taliban's safe havens in Pakistan.''
 But Henry A. Crumpton, a former C.I.A. officer who played a key role in ousting the Taliban and became the State Department's counterterrorism chief, said winning a war like the one in Afghanistan required American personnel to ''get in at a local level and respond to people's needs so that enemy forces cannot come in and take advantage.''
 ''These are the fundamentals of counterinsurgency, and somehow we forgot them or never learned them,'' he added. He noted that ''the United States has 11 carrier battle groups, but we still don't have expeditionary nonmilitary forces of the kind you need to win this sort of war.''
 ''We're living in the past,'' he said.
 Among some current and former officials, a consensus is emerging that a more consistent, forceful American effort could have helped to keep the Taliban and Al Qaeda's leadership from regrouping. 
 Gen. James L. Jones, a retired American officer and a former NATO supreme commander, said Iraq caused the United States to ''take its eye off the ball'' in Afghanistan. He warned that the consequences of failure ''are just as serious in Afghanistan as they are in Iraq.''
 ''Symbolically, it's more the epicenter of terrorism than Iraq,'' he said. ''If we don't succeed in Afghanistan, you're sending a very clear message to the terrorist organizations that the U.S., the U.N. and the 37 countries with troops on the ground can be defeated.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 14, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about how security and rebuilding efforts in Afghanistan have faltered referred incorrectly in some copies to the timing of a trip to Afghanistan by NATO representatives. The trip occurred two years after the fall of the Taliban, not one year. A front-page chart with the article gave an incorrect total in some copies for the amount spent on aid and reconstruction in Afghanistan by the United States from 2003 to 2007. It is $19 billion, not $22 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: American soldiers during an operation in Zabul Province in 2006. (Photograph by TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Zalmay Khalilzad, the ambassador to Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005. (Photograph by ED WRAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan in Kabul in 2004. (Photograph by MUSADEQ SADEQ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. 12) MAPS: ''Terrorism on the Rise'' Though Afghanistan experienced a period of relative calm after the fall of the Taliban, parts of the country have since become more dangerous. Larger circles on the map show which provinces have had the most terrorist attacks since 2002. ''Attacks jump 11-fold'' These three provinces have been the scene of intense fighting. Terrorist attacks here jumped from 9 in 2002 to 103 in 2006. British forces in Helmand have reported success in recent months in pushing the Taliban back. ''Attacks triple'' Terrorist attacks more than tripled from 2002 to 2006 in the provinces surrounding Kabul and those close to the Pakistani border. Afghan officials say the Taliban use Pakistan as a safe haven. ''Number of terrorist attacks from Jan. 2002 to mid-April 2007'' The data are compiled by the Memorial Institute for the Prevention of Terrorism and the RAND Corporation. A terrorist attack is defined as one that is intended to incite fear and alarm. No other detailed data on violence in Afghanistan were available
''2001'' The United States begins its attack on the Taliban on Oct. 7. Kabul falls on Nov. 13 and Kandahar less than a month later. In December the Taliban are driven into Pakistan, ''2002'' January The new Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, visit Washington, and asks for a larger international force to extend his authority beyond Kabul,February Secretary of State Colin L. Powell formally backs Mr. Karzai's request but faces skepticism from President Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney and particularly Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld. The proposal dies, April Mr. Bush promises a vast American-led reconstruction effort ''in the best traditions of George Marshall.'', ''2003'' Spring Growing numbers of Taliban return from Pakistan, killing aid workers and stalling reconstruction in the south, May 1 Mr. Rumsfeld announces the end of major combat in Afghanistan, hours before Mr. Bush lands on the aircraft carrier Abraham Lincoln to announce the same regarding Iraq. Later that month, Mr. Karzai threatens to resign and says his government has run out of money, Summer The White House approves a sweeping new effort that in many ways mirrors Mr. Powell's 2002 proposal for a larger presence. Zalmay Khalilzad agrees to become U.S. ambassador after Mr. Bush promises a vast increase in aid, ''2004'' Jan. 4 Afghans leaders compromise on a new Constitution, Oct. 9 A presidential election is held, and Mr. Karzai wins by a large margin. Chart has three seperate maps showing Afganistan and Number of terrorist attacks in Afghanistan each month. (pg. 12) (Sources: MIPT Terrorism Knowledge Base
United Nations
 Congressional Research Service) CHART: ''How Much Has Been Spent'' Spending by the American government on aid and reconstruction from 2003 to 2007.(pg. A1) Chart shows bar graph of money spent in Afganistan and Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (87%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); HELICOPTERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); DICK CHENEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (95%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



213 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1817 words

HEADLINE: In Study Abroad, Gifts and Money For Universities

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

 BODY:
As overseas study has become a prized credential of the undergraduate experience, a competitive, even cutthroat, industry has emerged, with an army of vendors vying for student money and universities moving to profit from the boom. 
 At many campuses, study abroad programs are run by multiple companies and nonprofit institutes that offer colleges generous perks to sign up students: free and subsidized travel overseas for officials, back-office services to defray operating expenses, stipends to market the programs to students, unpaid membership on advisory councils and boards, and even cash bonuses and commissions on student-paid fees. This money generally goes directly to colleges, not always to the students who take the trips.
 Critics say that these and similar arrangements, which are seldom disclosed, typically limit student options and drive up prices for gaining international credentials compared with the most economical alternative -- enrolling directly in a foreign university, paying generally lower tuition to that institution and having the credits transferred. Some campuses require students to use one of several affiliated providers, but some even have exclusive arrangements with study-abroad agents, further limiting options. 
 Many of these perks are similar, if not identical, to ones uncovered in multiple investigations into the student loan industry, where lenders gave colleges bonuses tied to loan volume, seats on advisory boards and free travel to conferences in the race to get on so-called preferred lender lists. The similarities raise questions about how many aspects of higher education involve such little-known incentives that may have large impacts on the college experience. 
 For example, the American Institute for Foreign Study offers college officials a free trip to one of its overseas sites for every 15 students that sign on and a 5 percent share of the fees that students pay, according to a copy of its agreement with the University of Mary Washington; if fewer than 15 sign on, the payback is 2 percent. According to its Web site, the institute has deals with universities nationwide, including the University of California, Berkeley; Fordham and Pace in New York, and Rice in Houston. 
 Amy Bartnick-Blume, a vice president of the nonprofit Institute for Study Abroad, which is affiliated with Butler University in Indiana, said the institute gave colleges with which it has ''exclusive agreements'' up to $500 per student for restricting them to the institute's programs in a given region. The practice in effect shuts out the competition. Ms. Bartnick-Blume said that the colleges decide whether to pass the savings on to students and that the institute had no way of knowing how many do.
 ''We're all wringing our hands about how to make it possible for lower income kids to participate in study abroad,'' said Barmak Nassirian, associate executive director at the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers. ''But one of the reasons it costs so much is all this institutional mediation.''
 No regulations govern study abroad programs, except a voluntary code of ethics from an industry trade group that limits members to ''gifts that are of nominal value and that do not seem intended to influence professional decisions.'' 
 But Brian Whalen, the president of the Forum on Education Abroad, another industry group that is charged with creating standards for study abroad programs, said more transparency was needed so that students knew about arrangements with outside providers that had an impact on their costs or options. 
 Dr. Whalen, who is also the executive director of study abroad at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa., said overseas site visits for educators, when given in exchange for student participation in a program, crossed an ethical line. As for payments from outside providers, he said, the danger is that colleges may come to rely on the money. Then, he said, study abroad officials may think, ''If it goes away, we're going to be in trouble with our office.'' 
 ''It creates an incentive to bring up the numbers of students using a certain organization,'' Dr. Whalen said.
 Officials at universities and study abroad agencies, though, defend the system, saying the perks are relatively minor, do not obligate a college to choose a particular program and are so common that they do not sway decisions. 
 Ms. Bartnick-Blume of the Butler institute described the financial incentives as recognition for helping the institute do its job better. When colleges promote Butler exclusively or as a major program in certain countries, she said, the institute can spend less time and money recruiting students on the campus ''since we know we have a very captured audience for those students.''
 Students, while cherishing their overseas experience, are sometimes the system's most bitter critics. Few, if any, are aware of the perks dispensed by study abroad providers, but they complain generally of the high costs of studying overseas and do not understand how providers get selected by universities.
 Partly in the hope of saving money, Brendan Jones, a former student at Columbia and now a contractor specializing in architectural salvage, studied at Oxford University several years ago through an outside company, rather than through a program approved by Columbia. 
 Though he was warned beforehand that Columbia would not grant credit, he was surprised when it did not relent because the college he attended at Oxford, Magdalen, was ranked higher than the one where Columbia sent students.
 Columbia said it only allowed students to go on programs it had vetted and approved.
 ''I went crazy trying to find a way to make it work,'' Mr. Jones said. Faced with the prospect of repeating his junior year at Columbia, he graduated, instead, from Oxford.
 More than 200,000 American students flock to foreign universities a year, an increase of nearly 150 percent over the last decade. 
 The industry lacks a central registry of study abroad providers, but experts put the number of major players at just under 100. Nor does any group track which universities use outside study abroad providers and which contract directly with a foreign institution; colleges often do both, depending on the location. 
 Many public universities, especially, encourage students to deal directly with the foreign institution to lower costs, even if they also have arrangements with outside providers. Experts in the field say private colleges are increasingly taking the opposite tack, charging full at-home tuition and doling out a fraction to an outside provider or university abroad, pocketing the difference.
 Many colleges are also moving to build direct relations with overseas universities, in effect cutting out the middleman and increasing their revenue. 
 Still, arrangements with outside agencies carry many advantages. They allow universities to feature programs at far-flung corners of the globe and provide services to students on-site, even where the university itself has no presence. They ease the transition to foreign cultures, provide guided tours and a ready social network, and help in emergencies. They also protect the university in case of liability. 
 To promote their preferred providers, many colleges require students to use them, sometimes denying financial aid or credit to students taking alternate routes, even at top-tier universities. 
 Officials at universities and study abroad agencies see the perks as part of their normal business.
 Kathleen McDermott, director of global programs for liberal arts undergraduates at Columbia, said trips subsidized by outside providers posed no conflict because ''ourbusiness is to evaluate programs.''
 ''You get real access,'' she said, ''in a way you wouldn't necessarily have done if I were on my own.'' 
 Recalling a flood and an earthquake in Tanzania and a water shortage in Uganda during one trip, she said lodgings were typically spartan and schedules packed. ''This is an important part of the process of understanding what's going on,'' she said.
 Since 1998, Dr. McDermott said she had taken six such trips: one to Argentina and Chile, another to Uganda and Tanzania, and visits to Cuba, western China, Jordan and Morocco. The trips were sponsored, she said, by various providers. 
 The Butler institute sponsored one of Dr. McDermott's trips; Columbia, along with about 120 other institutions, is a member of the its national advisory council. 
 Ms. Bartnick-Blume of the Butler institute said subsidized trips were not a conflict because they did not formally oblige colleges to send students to institute programs. While exclusivity agreements may limit student choices, she said, universities also restrict the programs they approve for other reasons, like liability issues or a preference for dealing with a few, trusted providers. 
 In offering cash back, she added, providers are responding to demands from study abroad officials, who are under increasing pressure not only to cover their office's expenses, but also to generate revenue. ''They're going to the competition, asking for these things,'' she said.
 Even college officials who participate in the system acknowledge a thicket of issues. Christopher Musick, who directs study abroad programs at the University of Mary Washington, in Fredericksburg, Va., said he urged students at his public institution to apply directly to a foreign university and save money. But Mary Washington also signs affiliation agreements with providers, receiving help with marketing and back-office expenses. 
 Officials at Rice and Berkeley said they accepted money from providers, including the American Institute for Foreign Study, to use as scholarships, disbursed at their discretion but not necessarily to those whose business earned the money. The institute decline to comment.
 Ronald Mendez-Clark, who runs study abroad at Fordham, said the university had agreements with many providers, including the American Institute, but did not choose any programs because of incentives. 
 Some critics come from within the industry. Robert Schuettinger, president of the Washington International Studies Council, which operates study abroad programs with many colleges, said subsidized travel and other perks were unethical and stifled competition. His company does not offer trips abroad, and he said he feared that this caused it to lose business. But his company does give discounts to universities for volume, which he called the industry norm.
 Mr. Nassirian, of the registrars association, said colleges could have legitimate reasons for restricting students to only some overseas institutions. ''But what is objectionable,'' he said, ''is, if the student decides at his or her own risk to go overseas, the outright refusal to take credit from a legitimate foreign institution.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brendan Jones, a former student at Columbia University, spent his junior year at Oxford through an outside company, not a program approved by Columbia. After Columbia refused to transfer those credits, he stayed at Oxford and graduated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHEA ROGGIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A17) GRAPH: ''Enrolled Overseas'' The number of American college students studying abroad has more than doubled over the last decade. The graph shows the influx from 1993-2004. (Source: Institute of International Education)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); COMMISSION PAY (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); WEB SITES (63%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (56%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007



214 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Small Investors Seen as Safer In Stock Slide

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and VIKAS BAJAJ; David Leonhardt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The wild swings in the stock market over the last few weeks have reawakened memories of the technology crash of 2000 in which many small investors lost their savings. But this time around, market experts say, ordinary investors seem less vulnerable than the professionals who have taken a beating.
 The excesses in the financial markets are now generally believed to reside in complex mortgage securities and other esoteric investments, not in the traditional stock and bond markets where average Americans put their money.
 Over all, analysts say that the situation may well get worse before it gets better. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has fallen about 6.4 percent since July 19 when it set a record high. It is considered normal for the market to fall as much as 10 percent periodically during bull markets. That leaves room for the Dow Jones industrial average to fall another 640 points, to 12,600. 
 In the near term, average Americans can expect more turmoil and uncertainty in the stock market and may have a harder time obtaining mortgages. But investment experts say that ordinary long-term investors, as long as they are diversified, should worry less. 
 ''There is no immediate crisis'' for the long-term individual investor, said Michael Poulos, a managing director at Oliver Wyman, a consulting firm that specializes in financial services. ''This is mostly a case of relatively rich, sophisticated investors who made big bets on the credit spreads that will have big problems. It is not Joe 401(k).''
 The crisis has reverberated throughout the financial markets, but the greatest impact has been felt by investors in mortgage securities and those involved with corporate buyouts. Also, hundreds of thousands of homeowners are facing resetting rates on loans and may not be able to refinance easily into another loan.
 Last week, the Federal Reserve and other central banks lent $293 billion to banks to ensure that there was enough money to lend to borrowers.
 But even skeptical market watchers acknowledge that stocks, which average Americans buy through mutual funds, appear less vulnerable than the market for complex debt investments typically bought by hedge funds, pension funds and insurance companies. Since bottoming out in late 2002, stocks have risen at a more modest pace than in the 1990s -- an average of 13 percent a year. And despite recent losses, the Dow is still up 6.2 percent since Jan. 1.
 The ratio of stock prices to corporate profits for the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index is 16.8, slightly above the average of 15.7 since 1935, but below the average of 22.8 since 1988. 
 On numerous occasions in recent decades, stocks have fallen 6 percent or more in a short period. In most cases -- in 1998, 1999 and 2003, for example -- stocks began rising again soon. In a few cases, most notably 2000, the initial declines signaled larger problems.
 There is no way to predict where the market will go, but many investment specialists say the economy is fundamentally strong. Companies are adding jobs and real wages are rising. (On Monday morning, Japanese stocks increased slightly, with the Nikkei 225 index up 0.48 percent at midday.)
 Still, the fact that the markets in the United States are falling despite a vibrant global economy has been unnerving to individual investors.
 ''How concerned should I be?'' asked Shanna Rendon, a 53-year-old retired lab technician in Grand Junction, Colo. ''I am managing the finances for our retirement -- and I don't want to lose money.''
 She and her husband lost more than $1 million of their retirement nest egg in the crash that followed the boom of the late 1990s. But they have been able to recover over the last few years as the stock market rallied.
 ''I look back at the tech wreck and see overvalued companies,'' she said. ''Now, I am looking at a country where the economy has a problem because of a lot of credit. What is going to prop up the economy with all that debt?''
 In the short term, investors like Ms. Rendon can probably expect more turmoil. Expectations of future volatility -- though they are far lower by one popular measure than they were early in this decade and in the late 1990s -- have surged to their highest levels in more than four years.
 ''Certainly for young folks, this is a shocker,'' Jim T. Swanson, chief investment strategist at MFS Investments in Boston, said about volatility. ''But the 20-year numbers suggest that this is a return to normal.''
 Individual investors should figure out how comfortable they are with the risks of their investments, while considering their financial circumstances and investment goals, advisers say.
 Many financial experts suggest investors consider moving their money to less risky investments like Treasury notes and blue-chip stocks, which they expect to now perform better than junk bonds and smaller stocks.
 But they caution against impulsively buying and selling stocks based on a short-term market swing. ''None of us are going to be able to time our moves,'' said Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab. ''If you take a more systematic approach, then you are sort of putting yourself on the right side of the market. But it's not human nature to do that. We love to ride our winners until something happens.''
 For now, anxiety is particularly high among well-heeled investors in some hedge funds that have reported losses. Many are flocking for the exits, forcing portfolio managers to sell otherwise solid investments.
 And the demands could intensify this week: Wednesday marks 45 days before the end of the quarter, the deadline by which most hedge fund investors must notify the funds if they want to redeem their investments.
 Stock prices could also decline further if investors no longer expect the big premiums that private equity firms have been paying to buy public companies.
 Financial stocks, which often lead the market, are down 10 percent for the year. Many banks and brokerages were riding high in recent years because of the lucrative fees they earned during the buyout boom. A big test will come when bankers have to raise money for big private equity acquisitions like the ones that are pending for the First Data Corporation and Sallie Mae. 
 In the mortgage market, the prognosis is expected to be bleak for some time. A glut of unsold properties in many parts of the country suggests that home prices have further to fall.
 Optimists, however, note that the American economy is running smoothly. Unemployment is at 4.6 percent, near record lows. 
 Borrowing costs are rising but are still cheap compared with historical rates. Public companies are flush with cash and corporate profits are growing at a robust pace. Investors have trillions of dollars sitting on the sidelines, waiting for the right time to jump into the market.
 Larry Reno, a retired government worker who lives in Atlanta, is among the would-be bargain hunters. ''There are a lot of stocks out there that are getting beat up and have good fundamentals,'' said Mr. Reno, who calls himself a long-term investor. ''To me, it's like the day after Christmas, when all the department stores put the stuff on sale.'' 
 To place the current period in context, many experts are studying the credit crisis in 1998, when Russia defaulted on its debts and the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management collapsed. ''In 1998, 60 subprime companies went out of business,'' said Meredith A. Whitney, an analyst with CIBC World Markets. ''And that didn't send our economy into a recession.''
 In fact, the stock market climbed higher after the Fed intervened to save Long-Term Capital and the International Monetary Fund lent money to Russia. 
 But other market watchers contend that employment and profits are often lagging indicators and that the American economy is already slowing. 
 As adjustable-rate mortgages are reset, many homeowners will face higher monthly housing payments. That could force some families to cut back on spending.
 Sallie L. Krawcheck, head of global wealth management at Citigroup, said investors should be ''making adjustments for risk and, if appropriate, exploring possible buying opportunities.''
 They should focus on whether ''the market volatility bleeds over into the health and behavior of consumer,'' she said. ''That is the key for the real economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007



215 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: THE WEEK AHEAD

 BODY:
THE CREDIT SQUEEZE The main focus will be on the credit crisis and its effect on the markets. Wednesday will be the 45th day before the end of the quarter, the deadline by which most hedge fund investors must notify the funds if they want to redeem investments. 
 ECONOMIC SIGNALS The Federal Reserve, under some pressure to reduce rates, will probably scrutinize the week's inflation reports, including the producer price index (Tuesday) and consumer price index (Wednesday).
 Other reports will include retail sales for July and business inventories for June (Monday); trade deficit for June (Tuesday); industrial production and capacity utilization (Wednesday); July housing starts (Thursday); and the Reuters/University of Michigan index (Friday).
 EARNINGS REPORTS Retailers and financial companies dominate the week, with earnings reports from Blackstone (Monday); Fortress Investment, Home Depot, TJX, UBS and Wal-Mart (Tuesday); Deere, Macy's and Sara Lee (Wednesday); and Fannie Mae, Hewlett-Packard, J. C. Penney, Kohl's and Nordstrom (Thursday).
 JEFFERSON COIN The United States Mint will introduce the Thomas Jefferson $1 coin (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); RETAILERS (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); COINS & COINAGE (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (71%); RETAIL SALES (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (54%); HOUSING STARTS (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); US MINT (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007



216 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'AUGUST: OSAGE COUNTY'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: A Matriarch After Your Attention, if Not Heart

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 10 

 BODY:
For all her grace and gentility, Eugene O'Neill's Mary Tyrone was certainly a handful. Ditto Tennessee Williams's Amanda Wingfield and Lillian Hellman's Regina Giddens. Edward Albee's Martha is a mother you wouldn't even wish on an imaginary child.
 Now an impressive new contender has emerged in the tormenting-female sweepstakes of the American theater. Welcome, please, Mrs. Violet Weston, the cancer-ridden, drug-addled, venom-spewing matriarch of ''August: Osage County,'' a hugely entertaining (also just plain huge) new play by Tracy Letts at the Steppenwolf Theater Company here. 
 Like poor Mary in ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' Violet spends a lot of her time in a chemically induced haze. Like the fluttery Amanda in ''The Glass Menagerie,'' her mother love contains equal parts guilt and manipulation. Like Regina in ''The Little Foxes,'' she is a master tactician. And like the soused Martha in ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,'' she has a tongue that could flay a horse at 10 paces. 
 But for unrestrained malice and unstoppable powers of emotional destruction, I am tempted to suggest that Violet puts all the rest in the shade. As played with savage astringency by Deanna Dunagan, she is also hypnotically watchable, a ''what will she say next?'' monster whose gleeful evisceration of her nearest and dearest in the course of three acts and three hours provides this gothic family saga with its fast-humming internal engine. I expect this bleak, black crowd-pleaser (yep) will barge its way onto Broadway sooner rather than later. The play and the Steppenwolf production, directed by Anna D. Shapiro, partake of the same dark energy as the dragon lady herself.
 New York theatergoers may know Mr. Letts as the author of the trailer-trash gore-fest ''Killer Joe'' and the equally sanguinary psychological thriller ''Bug,'' both of which had substantial Off Broadway runs. (Mr. Letts's third play, the tamer ''Man From Nebraska,'' was a Pulitzer Prize finalist, but oddly it has not been produced in New York.) I for one am relieved to report that Mr. Letts continues to stanch the bloodletting in ''August: Osage County,'' at least in literal terms.
 Metaphorically, on the other hand, he pretty much never lets up. The play's opening scene is practically the only gentle one, as the paterfamilias Beverly Weston (Dennis Letts, the playwright's father), a former poet and professor who has retired into full-time alcoholism, interviews a young American Indian woman, Johnna (Kimberly Guerrero), he hopes to hire to take care of himself and his wife. As he puts it with eloquent clarity: ''The facts are: My wife takes pills, and I drink. And these facts have over time made burdensome the maintenance of traditional American routine: paying of bills, purchase of goods, cleaning of clothes or carpets.'' 
 By the next scene this genial, mordantly funny, T. S. Eliot- and John Berryman-quoting gentleman has mysteriously disappeared, leaving his new employee to perform the aforesaid duties for an increasingly crowded household. (The verse that really should be quoted in the play is Philip Larkin's famous dictum about how mum and dad really, um, screw you up.) 
 First to arrive is the Westons' middle daughter, the withdrawn, 44-year-old Ivy (Sally Murphy). She distracts Mama from worries about Daddy's disappearance by playing human dartboard for catty comments about her love life. Among Violet's more benign observations: ''Your shoulders are slumped and your hair's all straight and you don't wear makeup. You look like a lesbian.''
 More diversion comes courtesy of Violet's blowsy sister Mattie Fae, played to the repellent hilt by Rondi Reed, who shares her sister's lacerating tongue (though she hasn't got the symbolic cancer of the mouth -- yet). She browbeats her milquetoast husband, Charlie (Francis Guinan), and runs down her adult son, Little Charles (Ian Barford). ''Little Charles isn't complicated,'' Mattie Fae snaps when Charlie compares him with the missing Beverly. ''He's just unemployed.'' 
 When the Westons' oldest daughter, Barbara (Amy Morton), arrives from Colorado, with newly estranged husband and pot-smoking teenage daughter in tow, she tries to restore some order to the fractious atmosphere, though the handfuls of pills Violet keeps downing make this a challenging task. Last to arrive is the youngest, Karen (Mariann Mayberry), a chatty redhead whose scattered life has at last come together.
 Having assembled three generations of the Weston family under the eaves of the family home in rural Oklahoma, Mr. Letts merrily sets about exposing the pathologies that have long drawn them toxically together and driven them apart.
 What has he got to offer? You name it. Drug abuse and alcoholism are mere palate-cleansers for this clan. The many other pathogens that can corrode the ''cruel covenant'' of American marriage and domestic life (to use Beverly's poetic term) are all accounted for. Adultery? Plenty. Pedophilia? Check. Emotional and physical abuse? Yup. Special bonus horror: Incest! 
 At regular intervals new revelations are dished out from the play's heaping casserole of secrets, sorrows and betrayals, in scenes that often build to hair-raising emotional standoffs or the occasional screaming match. There is nary an unrewarding role in the play (well, maybe the saintly Johnna's), and the Steppenwolf cast chews into the material with relish.
 Although its epic length and its knotty tale of inbred loves and hates ring with echoes of various classic miserable-family plays (perhaps particularly Sam Shepard's ''Buried Child''), Mr. Letts is as yet more a skillful entertainer than a true visionary or a dramatic poet. ''August: Osage County'' is a ripsnorter full of blistering, funny dialogue, acid-etched characterizations and scenes of no-holds-barred emotional combat, but I would not say it possesses the penetrating truth or the revelatory originality of a fully achieved work of art. 
 Like Martin McDonagh, with whom he shares a taste for both stinging humor and streaming blood (Mr. McDonagh has said he drew inspiration for his plays after seeing ''Killer Joe'' in London), Mr. Letts is so intoxicated by bad behavior and its poisoned roots that his view of experience can sometimes seem distorted. At their most sensational, his plays do not comment on or illuminate life so much as they offer an escape from it into lurid comic worlds too corroded by human bile to be mistaken for the real one. ''August: Osage County'' marks a powerful step forward, but it is still more a potboiler than a heart-scouring tragedy.
 A bent for the lurid has not, of course, stopped the gifted Mr. McDonagh from rising quickly to the ranks of the theater's most acclaimed (and produced) contemporary playwrights. With this tastily nasty, ferociously enjoyable tale of a family shredded to tatters by inherited legacies of pain and suffering, Mr. Letts appears ready to emerge as a major contender in American playwriting himself.
 AUGUST
 Osage County
 By Tracy Letts; directed by Anna D. Shapiro; sets by Todd Rosenthal; costumes by Ana Kuzmanic; lighting by Ann G. Wrightson; sound by Richard Woodbury; music by David Singer; dramaturgy by Edward Sobel; fight choreographer, Chuck Coyl; dialect coach, Cecilie O'Reilly; stage manager, Deb Styer; assistant stage manager, Michelle Medvin. Presented by Steppenwolf, Martha Lavey, artistic director; David Hawkanson, executive director. At Steppenwolf, 1650 North Halsted Street, Chicago; (312)335-1650. Through Aug. 26. Running time: 3 hours, 18 minutes. 
 WITH: Ian Barford (Little Charles), Deanna Dunagan (Violet Weston), Kimberly Guerrero (Johnna Monevata), Francis Guinan (Charlie Aiken), Fawn Johnstin (Jean Fordham), Dennis Letts (Beverly Weston), Mariann Mayberry (Karen Weston), Amy Morton (Barbara Fordham), Sally Murphy (Ivy Weston), Jeff Perry (Bill Fordham), Rondi Reed (Mattie Fae Aiken), Rick Snyder (Steve Heidebrecht) and Troy West (Sheriff Deon Gilbeau). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amy Morton, top, and Deanna Dunagan in ''August: Osage County'' in Chicago. (pg. E1)
 From left, Fawn Johnstin, Jeff Perry and Amy Morton in ''August: Osage County,'' a new play by Tracy Letts. (Photograph by Michael Brosilow)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (89%); WRITERS (85%); THEATER COMPANIES (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); SWEEPSTAKES (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); INTERVIEWS (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%)

COMPANY: STEPPENWOLF THEATER CO (70%); GLASS MENAGERIE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (70%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007



217 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Off to Resorts, And Carrying Their Careers

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

DATELINE: STEAMBOAT SPRINGS, Colo. 

 BODY:
Time was you could tell the urban refugees in places like this: corporate achievers who quit the rat race to open a bed and breakfast or a candle shoppe. 
 Jim Moylan represents a new tribe in this bucolic mountain town, named for its loud sulfur spring. Mr. Moylan, 59, is a lawyer who specializes in securities and commodities work. When he moved from Chicago in 2003, he did not downscale his career for the small town, keeping his secretary and associates in Chicago and his clients around the country. He conducts his practice by fax and e-mail, just as he did in Chicago. 
 In Steamboat Springs, Mr. Moylan dug into local affairs, joining three city committees, the Rotary Club, his church finance council and the editorial board of the daily newspaper. ''I just wanted to get involved in the community,'' Mr. Moylan said, sitting in a bookstore/wine bar off the town's main street.
 As technology enables people to live and work wherever they want, increasingly they are clustering in resort playgrounds like Steamboat Springs (pop. 9,315) that have natural amenities, good weather -- and, now, lots of people like themselves. 
 In places like Nantucket, the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and Teton County, Idaho, the migrants are creating hybrid communities, implanting urban incomes, tastes, careers, ambitions, restaurants, cultural activities and networking opportunities into small towns that until recently could support none of these, and for which there has been little planning and still no consensus. 
 ''You are seeing a transformation of rural communities,'' said Jonathan Schechter, executive director of the Charture Institute in Jackson, Wyo., a nonprofit organization that studies small recreational towns. 
 Into quiet resort spots the migrants have come, laptops on their knees: fund managers from New York, software developers from California, consultants, proofreaders, engineers, inventors. ''The same processes that led to the suburbanization of the United States after World War II,'' Mr. Schechter said, ''are now producing a virtual suburbanization in places like Jackson or Steamboat Springs.'' 
 From 2000 to 2006, population in the 297 counties rated highest in natural amenities by the United States Department of Agriculture grew by 7.1 percent, 10 times the rate for the 1,090 rural counties with below-average amenities, the department reported.
 In towns that once emptied after the ski season or the beach season, these ''location-neutral'' migrants are complicating the traditional dynamic between tourists and locals. Here as elsewhere, average homes have become unaffordable for teachers, firefighters and others -- the people who created the good schools and community closeness that newcomers said drew them. The rate of change ''is causing a whiplash,'' Mr. Schechter said, ''because the towns don't have the political and economic systems in place to deal with them.''
 Routt County, which includes Steamboat Springs, is one of the first places to identify these new emigres as a source of economic growth and, paradoxically, community stability. A 2005 survey found that as many as 1 in 10 year-round households was involved in a location-neutral business. Unlike retirees and second-home buyers, who are also roosting in vacation towns, they send children to the local schools. ''Without kids, you don't have a community,'' said Scott Ford, a counselor at the Small Business Resource Center at Colorado Mountain College. 
 Cloistered in home offices, isolated from the local economy, location-neutrals are often invisible even to one another, except when they appear on local committees.
 Many work as hard as their urban counterparts, often juggling commitments in several time zones, but can step from their offices to a hiking trail or mountain stream.
 In Steamboat Springs, a pawn shop and loan store amid the expensive restaurants on the main drag illustrates the growing inequality in a region that produces few middle-income jobs. Each day 1,500 workers commute to Routt County from neighboring Moffat County, an hour away. Meanwhile, the airport, once filled with tourists, caters to people in business suits. 
 ''You've seen changes in politics,'' said Carl Steidtmann, the chief economist for Deloitte Research, who moved from Brooklyn two years ago. ''The county tipped Democratic in the last election. You see the tension in the City Council. It went from being pro-business-and-development to more conservationist.'' He added, ''Twelve years ago, not everyone you met had a Ph.D. or was from New York. There are still a lot of locals here, but that aspect is changing.'' 
 Peter Parsons, 45, who runs a microchip design company in Boulder, Colo., a city of 92,000 about three hours away, moved here five years ago to raise his three children in a small-town environment, keeping the company in Boulder. ''It's a real town,'' Mr. Parsons said of the appeal of Steamboat Springs. ''If your kids are running around, adults will see them and call you.'' 
 He has kept a Boulder telephone number and does little to remind clients he is not in the city. ''I wouldn't have been able to come here with my family if it meant opening a coffee shop,'' he said.
 To combat isolation, he volunteered at the school and at church, and briefly moved from his home office into a town-run business incubator ''in order to meet people,'' he said. Now his office overlooks the ski slopes and is a short walk from a fly-fishing spot; computers vie for desk space with hand-tied flies. He still has to persuade associates that he has not slowed down or retired. 
 ''We have big discussions about what it means to be a local,'' Mr. Parsons said of his fellow location-neutrals. ''Some people snub anybody who hasn't been here a long time. And some people think they know everything when they haven't been here long.''
 The Routt County Economic Development Cooperative has embraced the new tribe as an asset, especially to an area with no strong industry other than tourism. Location-neutrals tend to volunteer heavily in civic organizations and local government. County interviews with 61 location-neutral businesses found they held 120 volunteer positions. 
 But their enthusiasm has not always rubbed long-timers the right way, Mr. Ford said. ''If they haven't bonded with the community,'' he said, ''they begin with the 'You people' speeches: 'What you people don't understand is...' When they start that, it's almost impossible.'' Sometimes disputes spill out in the local newspaper or its blogs, where old-timers and newcomers point fingers. 
 Thomas Miller-Freutel, a partner in a directory-assistance startup, knows this chasm firsthand. Though he has lived here since 1990, first as owner of the Steamboat Inn, he sometimes struggles to balance his fast-paced work life with the small-town community. 
 ''I have to switch gears from what I was doing in other parts of the world to sit down and be productive as a community member,'' he said. ''You have to be careful not to say, 'Look, I deal with people all over the world and this is how it's done.' You have to change gears in a small town.'' 
 For Bill and Stephanie Faunce, who run a marketing company for cable operators, small-town life often means starting work at 7 a.m. and quitting at 11 p.m., but with breaks to hike, ski or be with their two young children. Their goal in coming here was not to slow down but to eliminate urban distractions and pressures. 
 ''There are no stressors here,'' said Mr. Faunce, 43. ''In L.A., it took 90 minutes to get to the office, so we had a Mercedes and a Land Rover. Now we drive a Suburban. In three years we've put 15,000 miles on it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephanie and Bill Faunce moved to Steamboat Springs, Colo., from Los Angeles to raise their two sons. Jim Moylan, left, a lawyer, moved from Chicago and does business from Steamboat Springs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A15) MAP: ''The New Urban Refugees'' The 10 counties with the greatest increase in the median value of homes, according to an analysis of Census Bureau data. (pg. A15)(Source: The Charture Institute) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SKIING (78%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CANDLE SHOPS (72%); MOUNTAINS (72%); BOOKSTORES (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); SUBURBS (67%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (63%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (62%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007



218 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: Irresponsible Threats

 BODY:
The last thing China needs is to give American politicians new excuses to erect protectionist defenses against Chinese imports. So it is stupefying that some Chinese officials -- with the blessing of the government press -- have been talking of using China's enormous cache of American Treasury bonds as an economic weapon. 
 The threats started late last month when Xia Bin, head of financial research at a cabinet think tank, said China should use its gargantuan foreign exchange reserves, heavily invested in American Treasury bonds, as a ''bargaining chip'' in bilateral negotiations. 
 Then, in The China Daily last week, He Fan, an economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, warned that if China's currency appreciated strongly (as many in Washington are demanding), the central bank would be forced to sell dollars, ''which might lead to a mass depreciation of the U.S. dollar.''
 Such warnings may be an unsurprising response to some of the intemperate language coming from Capitol Hill. Nevertheless, they are playing with fire. 
 Senators Charles Schumer, Lindsey Graham and Charles Grassley, all backers of measures to punish China for undervaluing its currency, pounced. Mr. Grassley wrote to the Chinese ambassador warning that ''they'll only harden people's views that China is purposely manipulating its currency to gain economic advantage.''
 We have consistently argued against such punitive legislation, which could harm America's economy by unleashing a trade war. But Beijing needs to realize that it would be an even bigger loser in a protectionist fight. Its development strategy hinges on maintaining strong export-led growth. And efforts to diversify its investments into assets beyond American Treasury bonds would likely, and rightly, be blocked if China were seen to use them to pursue agendas other than achieving better returns.
 Last month, China invested $3 billion in Blackstone, a private equity group that, through its holdings, is one of America's largest employers. One state-owned bank is investing billions in Britain's Barclays Bank. Another is reportedly considering a stake in Bear Stearns. 
 Yesterday, in an attempt to calm passions, China's central bank announced that it had no plans to sell off its dollar assets.We hope that there will also be a cooling off in some of the rhetoric coming out of Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BONDS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); MERCHANT BANKING (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (57%); BARC (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (78%); CHARLES SCHUMER (73%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007



219 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
China Drills for RichesIn Impoverished Chad
 The Chinese have bought the rights to a vast exploration zone in Chad, making one of Africa's poorest countries the latest frontier for their oil industry and increasingly global ambitions. A1
Colleges Receive PerksFrom International Study 
 More than 200,000 American students flock to foreign universities each year, and an industry has emerged, offering colleges generous perks for signing up students. The system parallels practices in the student loan industry, in which lenders gave colleges incentives to get on their preferred lender lists. A1
On New York Sports Fields,Grass Is Endangered
 As the demand for recreational space across New York City continues to increase, parks officials rely more on synthetic turf to reclaim bleak asphalt yards or extend the life of scraggly fields. Some cite the cheaper maintenance costs of turf fields, while others say grass fields are worth saving. A18
INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 Maliki to Meet With Parties
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki said he would meet as early as this week with leaders from all the major political parties of Iraq in the hope of forging a grand compromise among the warring factions. A8 
 The recent orphaning of a 9-month-old child, whose parents were probably killed by death squads, demonstrates the toll of the continued sectarian violence. A8 
 Iraqi and American officials think that Iraq's ailing economy could get a kick-start from American consumers interested in giving Iraqi-made clothes as Christmas presents. A8 Militant Support in Pakistan
 Gen. Pervez Musharraf, the president of Pakistan, made a rare admission before Pakistani and Afghan delegates at a grand tribal assembly in Kabul, saying that support for militants emanating from Pakistan had caused problems for Afghanistan. A6 Iran Concludes Spy Inquiry
 A senior judiciary official said Iran had finished its investigation into two Iranian-American academics who were arrested in May on espionage charges. The official did not disclose the conclusions of the investigation. A6 
 Are Hamas and Fatah Talking?
 A Hamas official in Gaza said his organization was holding unofficial talks with representatives from the Fatah movement. Fatah officials denied that any such dialogue was taking place. A4 Art on Life in Burmese Prison
 The more than 300 paintings and 1,000 illustrations that Htein Lin, an artist and onetime political prisoner in Burma, smuggled out offer a rare vision of prison life in Myanmar, formerly Burma, one of the world's most closed nations. A3 NATIONAL A10-17 
 Big-City Lives in Small Towns
 As technology enables people to live and work wherever they want, urban migrants are creating hybrid communities in places like Steamboat Springs, Colo., implanting urban incomes, tastes, careers, ambitions, cultural activities and networking opportunities in resort towns. A1 Runner-Up at Iowa Straw Poll
 Mike Huckabee, the Arkansas Republican seeking the presidency with an underdog campaign, is receiving fresh attention after building on an appeal to conservative Christians and managing to come in second, behind Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, in the Iowa Straw Poll. A1 Clinton Fund-Raising Data
 Since Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign announced that she had raised $26 million, more than any other presidential candidate in the first quarter of the year, it has had to subtract hundreds of thousands of dollars from its first-quarter total because of a variety of problems. As a result, the total is now $25.6 million. A16 House Foreclosure Epicenter
 While people nationwide are being affected by troubles in the lending industry, Stockton, Calif., a city of about 285,000 some 90 miles east of San Francisco, has the country's highest foreclosure rate. A10 New Tactic in Mine Rescue
 Emergency workers searching for six Utah coal miners trapped in a deep underground mine shaft, announced that they would begin drilling a third hole through the mountainside and using a faster digging technique to speed up the push through the collapsed mine's rubble. A10 NEW YORK/REGION A18-19
 Closing a Language Gap
 Since nearly half of the parents of New York City schoolchildren are not native English speakers, a unit was created to translate school documents into the eight foreign languages most commonly spoken in New York. The office surpasses the translation division at United Nations headquarters. A18 
 Harnessing Water Power
 Despite a string of recent mishaps in an attempt to harness power from the East River, there is still enough optimism about tidal power to attract investments, and even some competition. A19 
 BUSINESS DAY C1-8 Funds Driven by Data
 Bankers and investors say the computer-driven or quantitative investment methods some hedge funds employ tend not only to be duplicable but also broadly followed. One result is a pack-like tendency that has helped increase market volatility. C1 NBC and iVillage
 NBC Universal's struggles with iVillage, the Web site focused on women, underscore the snags that can arise in trying to bolt a new media operation onto an old one. C1 Halo 3 to the Rescue?
 Despite a severe manufacturing flaw that has caused breakdowns in the Microsoft Xbox 360 game console, Halo 3 -- the latest version of a violent space epic -- could redeem the company in the eyes of the device's owners. C1 
 Business Digest C2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); AL FATAH (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HAMAS (86%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PAINTING (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ORPHANS (71%); SMUGGLING (67%); CHRISTMAS (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); ESPIONAGE (62%); ARRESTS (62%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (90%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (52%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MYANMAR (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); AFRICA (92%); CHAD (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007



220 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Most Global Markets Spring Back From Plunge

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and WAYNE ARNOLD

 BODY:
If there is a crisis in global financial markets, it was not apparent in Asia and Europe today. And on Wall Street, the week got off to an unremarkable start.
 Stock prices were up moderately but broadly in the United States for most of the day, with little of the volatility that had characterized the markets last week. But the major indexes shed their modest gains late in the trading session and finished the day not far from where they closed on Friday.
 When trading ended, the Dow Jones industrial average closed down 3.01 points, at 13,263.53. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 stock index and the Nasdaq composite were each off 0.1 percent or less. 
 A number of early developments appeared to help put investors at ease today. Before the market opened, the government reported that retail sales rose in July at a solid pace. With mortgage markets tightening and home values dropping in many parts of the country, some economists have questioned whether consumer spending could stand up. 
 Also, Goldman Sachs moved today to shore up one of its hedge funds that has suffered huge losses in the recent market turmoil. The investment bank said it and other investors would add $3 billion to the fund.
 Separately, the Federal Reserve today added more money into the financial system, providing $2 billion in loans in an effort to help calm the markets. 
 Financial stocks were a drag on the market today. Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest mortgage lender, closed at $26.61, down 4 percent, and Fannie Mae was off 3.5 percent at $64.12.
 Technology equipment and telecommunications stocks were among the strongest performers. EMC, the data storage company, was up 7.5 percent to $19.05 ahead of the initial public offering of its VMware unit this week.Hewlett-Packard gained 2.6 percent to $48.43, and Sprint Nextel was up 3.4 percent at $19.49.
 In Europe today, stock indexes in Paris and Frankfurt finished about 2 percent higher, and British stocks were up almost 3 percent.
 The day's tone was set in Asia, where some of the region's biggest markets sprang back today after a slide last Friday. They were helped by the slight recovery in American markets after the close of Asian markets late last Friday.
 Australia's benchmark index gained 1.3 percent and South Korea's main index rose 1.6 percent.
 Reflecting some of the inverse logic that seems to govern markets of late, Japan's Nikkei 225 Stock Average index closed slightly higher on news that the country's economic growth was slowing, and that the central bank had lent an additional $5 billion to banks to ensure adequate funds in the money market.
 Central banks from Australia to the United States made similar loans today. The European Central Bank added $65.3 billion to the markets today.
 Last week, concerns about growing losses in the ailing market for subprime mortgages in the United States prompted many investors in Asia to take funds out of any investments that were considered relatively risky, either because they involved emerging markets or because they were tied to high levels of debt. 
 The recovery today encouraged some analysts to sound a note of optimism. They pointed to a growing awareness that Asia is still flush with funds and doesn't suffer from the same reliance on debt as investors do in Europe and the United States. 
 ''The worst of it's behind us in Asian markets,'' said Adrian Mowat, a strategist at J.P. Morgan in Hong Kong. ''Asian monetary systems have been relatively flush with cash and growth here is typically being funded by earnings -- household and corporate, rather than debt funding.'' 
 Others, however, warned that more surprises could be in store for the region and that today's recovery might in retrospect be only a temporary respite. 
 ''We think the volatility will continue for a while,'' said Hans Goetti, head of research strategy at Citi Private Bank in Singapore. 
 There was, therefore, still an air of uncertainty in Asia today, analysts said, with investors selling stocks in some smaller markets and buying stocks in larger economies, especially financial and commodity-related stocks that had been pushed down last week. 
 ''As information flows out, people are waiting to see what happens next,'' said Rahul Malhotra, managing director for private banking in the Middle East and Pacific Rim at Merrill Lynch in Singapore. 
 Merrill's advice to its clients, Mr. Malhotra said, was not to join the panic selling, advice he said that most appeared to be taking. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); RETAIL SALES (53%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); EMC CORP (81%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (64%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); VMWARE INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); EMC (NYSE) (81%); S (NYSE) (64%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); VMW (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (64%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (52%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



221 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MOTOR CITY MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: As Detroit Imports Executives, A City Reflects on Its 'Car Guys'

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Acme, Mich., and Mary M. Chapman from Detroit.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 12 

 BODY:
Where have all the car guys gone?
 With the surprise appointment last week of Robert L. Nardelli, the former Home Depot chief executive, to run Chrysler, Detroit has completed a new-model changeover of the executive suite. It is no longer a requirement to have ''motor oil in your veins,'' as they are fond of saying in this city, to run a car company.
 None of the chiefs now leading the three American car companies can be credited for inspiring or developing anything on the roads today -- the unofficial definition of what makes a Detroit chief executive a true ''car guy.'' Only one of them, Rick Wagoner at General Motors, has more than a year of experience in the industry. 
 Moreover, very few of their highest-ranking colleagues have come up through the design, engineering or marketing side of the business so vital to Detroit's existence. 
 It is a sharp break from a tradition stretching back to the industry's infancy, when car builders became chiefs of the companies that bore their names. As recently as last decade, all three chief executives could brag about cars they had helped develop.
 Ford's chief at the time, Donald E. Petersen, oversaw the Ford Taurus and earlier Fords. At G.M., Robert C. Stempel engineered several vehicles, including the Oldsmobile Toronado.
 And the most famous car guy of the time, Lee A. Iacocca, was credited with the success of Chrysler's K-cars and its minivan (and the Mustang from a previous stint at Ford). As a marketing expert, though, he admittedly had others doing the actual development work.
 But people in some quarters now argue that an outsider's pragmatic eye may be worth more than the gut instincts that come from bringing a car to life. 
 Given that the Detroit automakers have lost billions of dollars, and market share, to Japanese competitors in recent years, the evidence may be on their side. Though car guys were responsible for Detroit's triumphs, they also steered the companies into trouble with errors in judgment that included relying too heavily on big sport-utility vehicles. 
 ''This is a business that needs to be run as a business,'' Alan R. Mulally, Ford's chief executive, said at an industry conference last week near Traverse City, Mich.
 Even the now-retired Mr. Petersen, in a rare interview, agreed with that. ''I think the concept's been overdone,'' he said last week of the car-guy mystique. 
 By insisting that only homegrown talent be promoted, Mr. Petersen added, ''it's undervaluing the inherent knowledge that you get about how things do in fact work in a very complex industrial setting.''
 The appointment a year ago of Mr. Mulally, a former president of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, marked the first time an outsider had been appointed to run an auto company in Detroit, where lengthy careers at a single company are still the norm.
 Mr. Wagoner, for example, joined G.M. 30 years ago, and rose to chief financial officer in 1992 at age 39.
 By contrast, Mr. Nardelli has barely finished his first week as an automobile executive. His appointment has led to a kind of town hall discussion in the industry -- in union halls, on Internet message boards and at an industry conference last week in northern Michigan -- about who is best equipped to lead the industry out of its current troubles.
 The Detroit News asked readers to share their thoughts at its Web site after Mr. Nardelli's appointment, and they had wide-ranging opinions about Chrysler's future under its new owner, Cerberus Capital Management.
 ''The whole industry has to stop pointing fingers at the rest of the world and instead decide what they can do,'' said another reader from Troy, Mich. ''It's their industry. If they don't fix it, it's their jobs that go away.''
 Another was less confident in the new boss: ''I'm terrified by what Nardelli and Cerberus could do to Chrysler.''
 Mr. Nardelli hoped to win over some skeptics about his background when he stressed his love for Chrysler products last Monday at a news conference -- he said his garage included a Jeep, a Plymouth Prowler and a PT Cruiser.
 But Edward Lapham, executive editor of Automotive News, a trade publication, wrote on Wednesday that it would be a mistake for Mr. Nardelli ''to assume that just because he likes cars, he's a car guy.''
 Arturo Reyes, the president of United Automobile Workers Local 651 in Flint, Mich., said he was skeptical of Mr. Nardelli. 
 ''I get more excited about the prospect of a company when we're talking about a car guy who has seen the manufacturing process, who knows the design team, who can talk about quality and everything else,'' Mr. Reyes said. To be sure, there is not a car guy in charge at the world's biggest car company, Toyota Motor, which passed G.M. earlier this year to take the No. 1 spot.
 In fact, it is difficult to name a traditional car guy at Toyota beyond the company's founder, Kiichiro Toyoda, who acknowledged copying a Chevrolet design for Toyota's first car, the AA, in 1936. 
 Toyota's top executives typically have a broad background, not a single expertise. Its current chief executive, Katsuaki Watanabe, is an economist and purchasing expert.
 The company's emphasis on consensus also means an expert's voice is only one of many when decisions are made, said James Lentz, an executive vice president at Toyota Motor Sales USA.
 ''The days of just a car guy running with their gut feeling probably are, today, pretty difficult to do,'' Mr. Lentz said. 
 Robert A. Lutz, vice chairman of G.M., is perhaps the Detroit executive best known for a ''golden gut'' that led him to direct the development of vehicles like the 10-cylinder Dodge Viper sports car.
 He said last week that he was not opposed to the idea of industry outsiders at the top.
 ''What you need is a well-balanced individual who has a lot of experience in the business, who has a brilliant business mind and knows what he or she doesn't know,'' he said at the automotive conference. ''If a person from the outside incorporates all those things, then there's no reason why he or she wouldn't do well.''
 But Mr. Lutz cautioned that Mr. Nardelli, reportedly hired to speed Chrysler's turnaround from $1.5 billion in losses last year, should not expect quick results. ''If anyone thinks they're going to get all that solved in three months, I wish them a lot of luck,'' he said.
 A car guy's background is invaluable in one sense, Mr. Petersen said. In an industry so focused on trying to predict trends, executives benefit from having both their own knowledge about the industry and experience in reading what other car guys are telling them.
 ''Unless you know the business, you won't know what can and can't be done,'' Mr. Petersen said. With a car background, ''you have the basic ability to be able to challenge.''
 To Mr. Petersen, the debate over non-car guys reminds him of an earlier trend, when companies scurried to elevate their chief financial officers, believing that familiarity with Wall Street trumped operating know-how.
 For Detroit, Mr. Nardelli's appointment will be ''a very interesting experiment,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1908 MODEL T FROM THE COLLECTIONS OF THE HENRY FORD (pg. A14) CHART: ''A Man and His Car'' For most of its history, the auto industry has been dominated by product-focused executives known as ''car guys.'' Although not always the chief designers or engineers, these men are inextricably linked with the vehicles they inspired. (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); ENGINEERING (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); BOEING CO (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: BOB NARDELLI (78%); RICK WAGONER (58%); ALAN MULALLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (58%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007



222 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Market Seen for Iraqi-Made Clothes

BYLINE: By STEPHEN FARRELL; Damien Cave contributed reporting from Diyala.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Aug. 12 

 BODY:
Iraqi and American officials think Iraq's ailing economy could get a kick-start from American consumers interested in giving Iraqi-made clothes as Christmas presents.
 ''We are hoping if everything goes well, by Thanksgiving and Christmas we will have from the Mosul factory teenage clothing, and from the Najaf factory ready-made suits, and from the leather industries here, leather jackets, and so on,'' Sami Al-Araji, the deputy industry minister, said Sunday during the announcement of a plan to put state industries back to work.
 Mr. Al-Araji said an American team led by Paul A. Brinkley, the deputy under secretary of defense for business transformation in Iraq, was in discussions with major American retailers like Sears and Wal-Mart to have the clothing on sale in a limited number of major cities by the holiday season. 
 The first move into American markets would be mainly symbolic, he said, involving 10,000 to 12,000 leather jackets, 20,000 to 25,000 suits priced around $80 to $90, and a similar number of garments for teenagers.
 ''We could go higher, but we thought we would start modestly,'' he added.
 Mr. Brinkley, a proponent of the theory that getting Iraq's state-owned industries back to work will revitalize the economy and lure unemployed Iraqis away from the insurgency, would not comment on discussions ''that are under way with any specific retailers.''
 However, he confirmed that negotiations were taking place with some American retailers. He also said that Shelmar Inc., a Memphis-based chain with 60 stores in eight states, had placed an order with an Iraqi state-owned clothing factory to buy a ''few thousand'' units of children's clothes.
 Restarting Iraq's state-owned companies, regarded by some critics as an inefficient throwback to Saddam Hussein's era, would be a reversal of the privatization model championed by L. Paul Bremer III, the American proconsul who governed Iraq from May 2003 to June 2004.
 Speaking Sunday in the fortified Green Zone alongside Mr. Al-Araji and Bayan Jabr, the finance minister, Mr. Brinkley insisted that privatization remained the ultimate goal, but said urgent revitalization of the economy was a crucial part of the counterinsurgency plan of Gen. David H. Petraeus, the commander of American forces in Iraq.
 ''Economic development,'' Mr. Brinkley said, ''is at the core of his vision of how we bring political, economic and security restoration as a three-pronged effort here to create stability and enable the eventual drawdown of our presence here and the establishment of a stable government.'' 
 The Iraqi ministers insisted that industry was the ''core'' of the Iraqi economy, and that restarting it would have a ''cascade'' effect.
 Despite the ministers' enthusiasm, some American officials urged caution. A senior United States Embassy official said last week: ''You have to look on a case-by-case basis. One of the interesting trade-offs that we face in looking at these enterprises is that they all tended to be very large consumers of electricity, and this is one of the real tensions.'' 
 He added: ''I don't think anybody has a problem in principle with the idea that if you can put people back to work that is a good thing. That is not in this situation an idea that people would argue with, but the question is at what cost are you going to be doing that? And if the cost is taking a lot of electricity from the grid, maybe you want to look at what the alternative uses of that might be.''
 The effort to restart factories is by no means the first indication that Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's government aims to pump cash into the economy. There are also plans for $30 million in microloans to small businesses, agriculture and government welfare programs.
 Last month, at the start of an initiative to provide state subsidies to farmers, Talib Aziz, an American-educated economic adviser to Mr. Maliki, said: ''The idea in the beginning was that unless security is provided in the country, the economy won't move. The prime minister thinks the reverse, that the economy needs to improve in order to improve security. So he is going to use the public funds, public investment and government investment to jump-start the economy.''
 He added, ''The economy now is stalled, so he is doing just what F.D.R. did in the Great Depression.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); LEATHER TANNING & FINISHING (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (73%); READY TO WEAR (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (74%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2007



223 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2007

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2987 words

HEADLINE: This Land Is Your Land? This Land Is My Land!

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH and BRIDGET ANDERSON


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students will research the many territory acquisitions in United States history and create an annotated map that tells the history of United States expansion. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students will research the many territory acquisitions in United States history and create an annotated map that tells the history of United States expansion.
Author(s):
Sarah Kavanagh, The New York Times Learning Network
Bridget Anderson, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance: one hour.
Objectives:
Students will:
1. Work in small groups to label as many as possible of the 50 states on a blank map.
2. Examine some facts and opinions about the history of land acquisition in the United States by reading and discussing the book review "Land Grab."
3. Create an annotated map that illustrates the history of land acquisition in the United States.
4. Explore United States history from different perspectives by creating sidebars for a class map.
Resources and Materials:
- pens/pencils.
- paper.
- classroom board.
- student journals.
- resources for conducting research and computers with Internet access.
- blank maps of the United States (one for every four students).
- large blank map of the United States.
- yarn.
- copies of the article "Land Grab," at (one per student).
Activities and Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: Before class, prepare copies of an unlabeled map of the United States, one for every four students. When students arrive, split them into groups of four and give each group one copy of the unlabeled map. Allow each group five minutes to work together to fill in as many states as they can from memory.
Once five minutes has passed, have students put down their pens and pencils and go over their results. Which states did all groups know? Which were hard to remember? Next, ask students if they know which states were the first to become a part of the United States. Which became a part of the United States most recently? How did all this land become the property of the United States government? From what students already know, do they think that the United States government came to own all of its land in an ethical fashion? Why or why not?
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "Land Grab" (), focusing on the following questions:
a. What does Richard Brookhiser, the reviewer, mean when he says that the chart at the end of "Seizing Destiny" is an "executive summary" of the book?
b. What treaties, purchases and acquisitions does Mr. Brookhiser mention in his first paragraph?
c. What rank does the United States hold when it comes to nations' land mass?
d. What does Mr. Brookhiser mean when he says that the "dynamics of American character" were set during colonial times? Do you agree?
e. According to Mr. Brookhiser, what brought Europeans to the Americas during the colonial era?
f. What does Mr. Brookhiser mean when he says that Indians, Spain and Mexico "stood in America's way"? What does this wording imply?
g. What do you think are the most interesting of the "interesting people and facts" that Brookhiser discusses in the third paragraph? Why?
h. What does Mr. Brookhiser mean when he says that "America's expansion was full of contingency"? What supporting examples does he give?
i. What is Mr. Brookhiser's opinion of the book he is reviewing, and why?
j. What connections does Mr. Brookhiser draw between Richard Kluger's prose and his point of view?
3. Explain to students that they are going to create an annotated map that tells the story of American land acquisition. Depending on the size of your class, split students up into groups of two to four students. Assign each pair or group one of the following areas to research (not all territories must be covered; choose depending on what your class has been studying and how many students you have):
- territory of the original 13 states.
- Louisiana Purchase territory.
- British Cession territory.
- Spanish Cession territory.
- Texas Annexation territory.
- Oregon territory.
- Mexican Cession territory.
- Gadsden Purchase territory.
- Alaska Purchase territory.
- Hawaii Annexation territory.
Each pair or group should use all available resources (textbooks, library books and the Internet) to answer the following questions (copied into a handout):
- What current states are included in this territory?
- Who occupied this land before the government of the United States acquired it?
- When, why and how did the United States government acquire this land? Be as specific as possible.
- Which people were instrumental in acquiring this territory?
-Which people were instrumental in selling or fighting for and losing this territory?
You may want to suggest the following Web sites as resources:
General:
www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/index.html.
The original 13 colonies:
www.nps.gov/revwar/.
.
www.nps.gov/archive/cowp/Timeline.htm.
www.americaslibrary.gov/cgi-bin/page.cgi/jb/revolut.
The Louisiana Purchase:
www.lib.lsu.edu/special/purchase/.
www.ourdocuments.gov/doc.php?flash=true&doc=18.
memory.loc.gov/ammem/amlaw/louisianapurchase.html.
British Cession territory:
www.infoplease.com/ipa/A0108256.html.
www.fargo-history.com/early/history.htm.
.
Spanish Cession territory:
www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/timeline/2.html.
www.techboston.org/tba/teaching_learning/portfolios/www02/Webdev/History/Primary-source.html.
web.uflib.ufl.edu/digital/collections/Teachers/Readings/UF00025122/VID00010/00010.pdf.
Texas Annexation territory:
www.tsl.state.tx.us/ref/abouttx/annexation/index.html.
.
www.yale.edu/lawweb/avalon/texmenu.htm.
.
www.dallashistory.org/history/texas/annexation.htm.
Oregon territory:
www.state.gov/r/pa/ho/time/dwe/16335.htm.
www.historylink.org/essays/output.cfm?file_id=5446.
.
Mexican Cession territory:
www.accessmylibrary.com/coms2/summary_0193-13207_ITM.
www.sfmuseum.org/hist6/muzzey.html.
www.clan.lib.nv.us/content.asp?id=519.
Gadsden Purchase territory:
.
.
Alaska Purchase:
library.state.ak.us/hist/cent/home.html.
www.loc.gov/rr/program/bib/ourdocs/Alaska.html.
frontiers.loc.gov/intldl/mtfhtml/mfak/mfaksale.html.
Annexation of Hawaii territory:
www.state.gov/r/pa/ho/time/gp/17661.htm.
.
Once students have found answers to all of the research questions, introduce them to the class map that they will be helping to create. This map can be a blank map of the United States on paper (outlines can be found at ), or, if you have adequate technology, the class map can be a Google Map (found online at , with instructions for creating custom maps found at maps.google.com/support/bin/answer.py?answer=68480).
Instruct students to work together in their groups to annotate the map for their assigned territory. Each group must outline and label its territory on the class map. Students must also create an insert for the map that should answer all of the questions they just researched. If you are working with Google Maps, these inserts will be text boxes that tell the story of the territory acquisition. If you are working on paper, these inserts will be pieces of paper that tell the story and are connected to their area of the map with yarn.
Once students have created their map insert either on paper or online, have them present their section of the map to the rest of the class in the order in which the assigned territories were acquired. Instruct the class to write down all commonalities between the territory acquisition being presented and the territory acquisition they studied. After each presentation have students share what they have written. Once all groups have presented, ask students what common threads there were between all of the territory acquisitions studied. Does this history of American expansion raise any ethical questions? What surprised them about this history?
4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Individually, students create two sidebars for the map they created in class: one that tells the story of their assigned territory acquisition from the perspective of the United States government, and one that tells the same story from the perspective of the people whose territory was lost to, sold to or occupied by Americans.
Further Questions for Discussion:
- Do you think that the United States government should acquire more land today? Why or why not?
- If you could go back in time and change one thing about how the United States acquired the land it currently holds, what would you change, and why?
- After reading the review, do you want to read Richard Kluger's book "Seizing Destiny"? Why or why not?
Evaluation and Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on their initial map labeling, their participation in class and small group discussion, their completion of thorough research, their creation of a map insert, their presentation and their completion of an informative and insightful sidebar.
Vocabulary:
executive, acquisitions, dynamics, speculators, squatters, homesteads, contempt, despotism, contingency, skeptical, expansionist, enterprise, candid, grievances, overwrought, symptomatic, sublimated, chronic, votaries, bluff, bluster, resolve, expediency, rhetoric, booster
Extension Activities:
1. Create an annotated map like the one explained in this lesson of the territories of the United States not included in the 50 states (Puerto Rico, United States Virgin Islands, Guam, etc.).
2. Choose two countries and create a chart that compares them in terms of imports and exports, natural resources, size, population, economy, etc.
3. Write an essay about what you think the "dynamics of American character" are and why.
4. Read the first chapter of "Seizing Destiny: How America Grew From Sea to Shining Sea" by Richard Kluger (found online at www.nytimes.com/2007/08/12/books/chapters/0812-1st-klug.html) and use what you learned, along with further research to write a short biography of James Polk.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Civics - What is the law of eminent domain? Research cases of eminent domain in your area and then write a position paper about the ethics of eminent domain laws. Discuss how your position could be applied to the history of land acquisition in the United States.
Global History - Research one of the countries that lost territory to the United States and write a profile of that country in the year that it lost territory. Make sure to discuss contemporaneous events, important people and prominent ideas.
Health - Make a poster that covers the diseases that Europeans brought with them to the western hemisphere. What are the major symptoms of these diseases? How are they treated or cured today? How were they treated or cured when Europeans settled the Americas? Why did these diseases have such devastating effects on the native people of the western hemisphere?
Mathematics - Make a chart that answers the following questions: What percentage of the United States' population owns land? What percentage rents? Make sure to compare by state and by urban and rural environments. Make another chart that examines the proportion of land owners to renters in your area. This information can be found at www.census.gov/.
Teaching with The Times - Search The Times for articles about border disputes. Create a map illustrated with Times articles that shows and comments on contemporary border disputes.
To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades Six to Eight.
Geography Standard 1: Understands the characteristics and uses of maps, globes and other geographic tools and technologies. Benchmarks: Uses thematic maps (e.g., patterns of population, disease, economic features, rainfall, vegetation); knows how maps help to find patterns of movement in space and time (e.g., mapping hurricane tracks over several seasons, mapping the spread of influenza throughout the world).
Geography Standard 13: Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that shape the divisions of Earth's surface. Benchmark: Understands the various factors involved in the development of nation-states (e.g., competition for territory and resources, desire for self-rule, nationalism, history of domination by powerful countries).
United States History Standard 3: Understands why the Americas attracted Europeans, why they brought enslaved Africans to their colonies and how Europeans struggled for control of North America and the Caribbean. Benchmarks: Understands the cultural and environmental impacts of European settlement in North America (e.g., friendly and troubled relations between English, French, Spanish and Dutch settlers and Native Americans; how various Native American societies changed as a result of the expanding European settlements and how they influenced European societies; the impact of the fur trade on the environment); understands the events that culminated in the English victory over the French in the Seven Years War, and why the war and its outcomes were significant.
United States History Standard 9: Understands the United States territorial expansion between 1801 and 1861, and how it affected relations with external powers and Native Americans. Benchmarks: Understands the short-term political and long-term cultural impacts of the Louisiana Purchase (e.g., those who opposed and supported the acquisition, the impact on Native Americans between 1801 and 1861); understands the social and political impact of the idea of Manifest Destiny (e.g., how it fueled the controversy over the Oregon territory, how it was reflected in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, its appeal to 19th century American industrial workers and small farmers).
Language Arts Standard 1: Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmark: Uses content, style and structure (e.g., formal or informal language, genre, organization) appropriate for specific audiences (e.g., public, private) and purposes (e.g., to entertain, to influence, to inform).
Language Arts Standard 4: Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmark: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for research topics (e.g., magazines, newspapers, dictionaries, schedules, journals, phone directories, globes, atlases, almanacs, technological sources).
Grades Nine to 12.
Geography Standard 1: Understands the characteristics and uses of maps, globes, and other geographic tools and technologies. Benchmark: Transforms primary data into maps, graphs and charts (e.g., charts developed from recent census data ranking selected information on various topics, cartograms depicting the relative sizes of Latin American countries based on their urban populations).
Geography Standard 13: Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that shape the divisions of Earth's surface. Benchmark: Understands the changes that occur in the extent and organization of social, political and economic entities on Earth's surface (e.g., imperial powers like the Roman Empire, Han Dynasty, Carolingian Empire, British Empire).
United States History Standard 3: Understands why the Americas attracted Europeans, why they brought enslaved Africans to their colonies and how Europeans struggled for control of North America and the Caribbean. Benchmarks: Understands social and economic characteristics of European colonization in the 17th and 18th centuries (e.g., changing immigration and settlement patterns of Puritans, Quakers, Germans, and Scots-Irish; the slave trade and chattel slavery in the Spanish, English and French Caribbean, Louisiana, the Dutch West Indies, and Chesapeake); understands the events and consequences of the Seven Years War (e.g., the significance of the Peace of Paris, options left to Native Americans); understands the nature of the interaction between Native Americans and various settlers (e.g., Native American involvement in the European wars for control between 1675 and 1763, how Native American societies responded to European land hunger and expansion).
United States History Standard 9: Understands the United States territorial expansion between 1801 and 1861, and how it affected relations with external powers and Native Americans. Benchmarks: Understands the impact of the Louisiana Purchase (e.g., its influence on politics, economic development and the concept of Manifest Destiny; how it affected relations with Native Americans and the lives of French and Spanish inhabitants of the Louisiana Territory; how the purchase of the Louisiana Territory was justified); understands the religious, political and social ideas that contributed to the 19th century belief in Manifest Destiny (e.g., the influence of United States trading interests in the Far East on continental expansion to the Pacific, "City Upon a Hill" and subsequent Protestant belief in building a model Christian community, millennialism and the Great Awakening, Republicanism, the urge to keep foreign enemies from gaining control of the Pacific Coast, the belief in America's duty to uplift "less civilized" peoples in the West); understands the initiating factors and outcomes of the Mexican-American War (e.g., the extent to which President Polk bore responsibility for initiating the war, whether the war was justified, arguments for and against the war, the impact of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo on the United States and Mexico); understands political interests and views regarding the War of 1812 (e.g., United States responses to shipping harassments before the war; interests of Native American and white settlers of the Northwest Territory during the war; Congressional positions for and against the war resolution of June 3, 1812).
Language Arts Standard 1: Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmark: Uses strategies to adapt writing for different purposes (e.g., to explain, inform, analyze, entertain, reflect, persuade).
Language Arts Standard 4: Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmark: Uses a variety of print and electronic sources to gather information for research topics (e.g., news sources like magazines, radio, television, newspapers; government publications; microfiche; telephone information services; databases; field studies; speeches; technical documents; periodicals; Internet).

        
Land Grab

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); HISTORY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); WRITERS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (67%) Academic Skills; American History; Geography; History of North America; Human Systems; Language Arts; Maps; Physical Systems; Visual Literacy; Westward Expansion

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011



224 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE HARD PART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: After Killings, Urgent Sense Of Unity Surprises Newark

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
An unexpected thing has happened to this crime-weary city since three young friends were shot to death in a school playground nine days ago. 
 Political rivals have promised to work together, young men in gang attire have signed pledges to put down their weapons, and a mayor who was facing criticism from even his most devoted allies has been buoyed by a wave of sympathy and support. 
 Last week, as investigators desperately scoured the city for the six men and teenagers believed responsible for the Mount Vernon School killings, mayoral aides met with local corporate leaders in search of $100,000 to buy gunshot-detection technology -- 50 cameras that would swivel toward gunfire -- for Newark's most violent neighborhoods. 
 They walked away from the meeting -- scheduled weeks beforehand -- with $3.2 million pledged for a surveillance system that would be the most advanced in the nation, an effort scheduled to be announced here on Tuesday. 
 ''I've done a lot of fund-raising in my day, but I was astounded by the outpouring of generosity,'' said Bari Mattes, a mayoral adviser who was at the meeting, which included executives from Prudential Financial and Raymond Chambers, a Newark philanthropist. ''Everyone around the table recognized that this is a unique moment and they responded.''
 Iofemi Hightower, 20; Dashon Harvey, 20; and Terrance Aeriel, 18; were killed with shots to the back of the head. Mr. Aeriel's 19-year-old sister, Natasha, was shot but survived.
 If disaster can be seen to have even a hint of silver lining, the homicides, which have drawn news coverage across the nation, have provoked a level of outrage, and commitment to change, not seen here since the riots of 40 years ago. 
 A group of ministers have come together to form a youth mentoring program, residents and organizations have donated more than $150,000 to assist the victims' families and local antiviolence organizations have been flooded with offers of assistance. 
 The killings have also become a defining moment for Mayor Cory A. Booker, who has been struggling to turn around this city since his election last year and who lately has found himself besieged by critics. The week before the killings, Mr. Booker had been grappling with the aftermath of a speech, captured on YouTube, that was intended as affectionate ribbing of a community leader who recently died, but instead provoked offense and fueled the sentiment that he is detached from his constituents. 
 In rousing eulogies at funerals for the victims last weekend, Mr. Booker repented the remarks, and throughout the past week he has become the spiritual voice of a city in mourning. 
 He has repeatedly visited the scene of the crime, cried with grieving relatives, and in a bizarre moment that only helped to elevate his central role, found himself presiding over the surrender of a prime suspect, who had requested such personal attention through his lawyer. 
 Through his anger and grief, captured on countless radio and television programs, Mayor Booker has lived and breathed this experience along with his stunned community, allowing him to temper the widespread sentiment that has long painted him as an outsider because he grew up in a mostly white upper-middle-class suburb and attended elite schools. 
 ''I feel like this is a unique moment and it's upon all of us to harness it,'' he said in an interview on Monday. ''This is a chance for Newark to not let a vicious moment define us, but a chance for us to turn it into a defining moment for our city.'' 
 Amid the calls for healing and unity, Mr. Booker has denounced the critics who have blamed him for the city's homicide rate, which, unlike most other categories of crime, has stayed high. (In the last week, there were none.) ''This is not a time for pointing fingers,'' he said. ''Each of us has to take responsibility for what is happening in our community.''
 Three people, including two teenagers, have been arrested in the shootings, while the police continue to seek three more, two of them teenagers as well. The police say the primary suspects are Jose Lachira Carranza, 28, who was out on $150,000 bail despite pending indictments on a charge of raping a 5-year-old, and one of aggravated assault in a bar fight; and Rodolfo Godinez, 24, convicted of theft in 2003. (Mr. Carranza pleaded not guilty on Friday; Mr. Godinez is at large.)
 On Aug. 6, some 36 hours after the shooting, protesters invoked the killings as evidence of Mr. Booker's shortcomings, calling for his resignation in a rally on the steps of City Hall. But as the week unfolded, his most vehement critics -- including Donna Jackson, who organized the rally, and Rahaman Muhammad, a local union leader who has feuded with the mayor -- temporarily set aside their invective. 
 ''I think our children need to see that even in the face of disagreement we still have a common agenda,'' Mr. Muhammad said. ''This is an excellent opportunity for the mayor to use the bully pulpit and bring people together as a community.'' 
 Mr. Muhammad said the killings prompted him to revive a moribund group he had founded, Fathers in the Hood, that pushes men to become better parents, and that Mr. Booker had agreed to help promote it. ''We have to show people that this tragedy is bigger than just me and the mayor,'' he said.
 For Mr. Booker, who regularly receives word of fatal shootings on his BlackBerry and often races to crime scenes, the Mount Vernon killings nonetheless stand apart. They have consumed both his schedule and his psyche: he has canceled many meetings on economic development and the budget to raise money for funeral expenses and to keep tabs on the police investigation.
 He has been on ABCs ''Good Morning America'' and ''Nightline,'' CNN's ''Anderson Cooper 360,'' and numerous public-radio talk shows, always evangelizing about the national plague of gun violence and attributing the crimes to ''pure evil.''
 ''It's important to understand that this is not a Newark problem, but I still believe our city has the potential to show it can end here,'' the mayor said in the interview on Monday. ''I've never felt more strong as a mayor and more determined that we are going to win this fight, that we are going to demonstrate to the nation the true nature of this city.''
 ''We can't sell buttons and T-shirts fast enough,'' said Yusef Ismail, 30, the executive director of Stop Shootin', a two-year-old group that is asking residents to pledge to resolve their differences through peaceful means. ''For the first time, everyone just seems to get it.''
 Alfred C. Koeppe, a board member of the Newark Community Foundation, which was formed two months ago to raise money for local projects, said he was stunned when Prudential executives pledged $3.2 million to the gunshot detection system (Continental Airlines later added $100,000 to the project). 
 ''The reaction in the room, and in this city and across the state, has been a very personal reaction,'' he said. ''The feeling is that we need to draw the line.''
 The group is scheduled to announce on Tuesday the plan to place more than 100 wireless cameras in a seven-square-mile swath of the city that has experienced 80 percent of all shootings since 2005.
 ''This will be a force multiplier for the Police Department,'' said Matt Klapper, a mayoral aide.
 But even the most ardent optimists said the galvanizing effect of the shootings would most likely be fleeting. 
 ''This is a fragile moment for Newark,'' said the Rev. William Howard, pastor of Bethany Baptist Church. ''It has a pregnant opportunity to break free of its past but it can't squander this moment because it may not come again for a long, long time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A memorial last week in the Newark schoolyard where three friends were killed with shots to the back of the head on Aug. 4. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE DERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A14)
 Mayor Cory A. Booker (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HAWTHORNE)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); RIOTS (72%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); SHOOTINGS (58%)

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (55%)

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



225 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Early Gains Give Way to a Small Loss

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street gave up a moderate gain in late trading and closed marginally lower yesterday after the Federal Reserve and other central banks added more cash to their banking systems, helping investors set aside some concerns about credit tightness. 
 Minutes after the opening bell, the New York Fed, which carries out the central bank's market operations, announced $2 billion in overnight repurchase agreements.
 The Fed's action followed a move by the Bank of Japan to put $5 billion into the markets and an addition by the European Central Bank of $65.3 billion; the European bank added more than $200 billion last week. The moves, after similar injections by the Fed last week, appeared to placate Wall Street and allowed it to focus on a week of fresh economic data. Since Thursday, the Fed has added $62 billion in liquidity.
 The central bank's moves seem to be calming a market that has been riven by volatility for weeks. But Ryan Detrick, senior technical strategist for Schaeffer's Investment Research, said trading was tepid yesterday. In fact, yesterday's decline was a sign that investors remained anxious.
 ''We got off to a good start in the morning, but people are still kind of on edge here and are unwilling to jump in and do a lot of buying,'' he said. ''There's so much worry out there about the next shoe to drop.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 3.01 points, or 0.02 percent, to 13,236.53. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.72 point, or 0.05 percent, to 1,452.92, and the Nasdaq composite index retreated 2.65 points, or 0.10 percent, to 2,542.24. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies slipped 8.97 points, or 1.14 percent, to 779.81.
 Great uncertainty continues over the extent of problems in the subprime mortgage sector. Defaults among subprime mortgage holders -- borrowers with weak credit -- began the chain of events that led to the turmoil on Wall Street and other stock markets in recent weeks.
 Those defaults recently led to the collapse of two Bear Stearns funds with risky mortgage-backed investments and last week prompted the French bank BNP Paribas to freeze three funds with exposure to the United States subprime mortgage market.
 Goldman Sachs said yesterday its funds using quantitative strategies, or computer modeling, ''are currently under pressure'' after global markets sold off on worries about debt and credit. Goldman fell $3, to $177.50.
 Investors appeared pleased with the Commerce Department's report that retail sales edged up 0.3 percent in July, slightly ahead of market expectations.
 The 10-year Treasury note was up 12/32, to 99 29/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.76 percent, from 4.81 percent.
 Light, sweet crude rose 15 cents, to $71.62 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Advancing issues were about even with decliners on the New York Stock Exchange, where consolidated volume came to 3.54 billion shares, compared with 5.11 billion on Friday.
 Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three-month and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart shows Dow Jones activity throughout day within a line graph
 ''The Favorites'' Stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. Chart shows list of top stocks and percentages. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (85%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MODELING & SIMULATION (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (61%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (71%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



226 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Retail Sales Edged Up 0.3% in July

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
Consumers went shopping for clothes, furniture and electronics products last month, giving a modest boost to retail sales despite continued weakness in the demand for new cars.
 The Commerce Department reported Monday that retail sales edged up 0.3 percent in July after having plunged by 0.7 percent in June, the worst showing in 16 months. 
 Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of total economic activity, is being watched carefully. The fear is that the recent turmoil in financial markets combined with slumping home prices will make Americans more hesitant to spend in the months ahead, raising the threat of recession.
 Wall Street suffered through some stomach-churning days last week because of worries about how credit problems that began in the market for subprime mortgages might spread to other types of loans. The Federal Reserve and other central banks around the world sought to calm investor fears by injecting billions of dollars into the banking system in an effort to keep short-term interest rates from rising.
 In a second report, the Commerce Department said that businesses built up their stockpiles by 0.4 percent in June, in line with expectations and slightly below a 0.5 percent increase in May. Economists are looking for inventory building to help bolster economic growth in coming months.
 The 0.3 percent rise in overall retail sales last month was slightly better than the 0.2 percent gain that had been expected, and was a bit of a surprise given that the nation's big retail chains reported last week that sales in July were disappointing.
 Increased demand for electronics gear and appliances, furniture and clothing helped to offset a 0.3 percent slump in sales at auto dealerships, which followed an even bigger 2.9 percent drop in June.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrice Stewart, left, and her cousin, Jhennel Bryan, shopped for clothes last week at Macy's in New York.(Photograph by Mark Lennihan/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (93%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); RETAILERS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECESSION (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); HOME PRICES (55%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (54%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



227 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Truck Stop Confidential

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Last Saturday evening, I found myself at the counter of a truck stop diner in Caroline County, Va. I was sitting next to a weathered trucker whose accent betrayed an East Texas upbringing and a lifetime devoted to tobacco products. We quickly established that we were both celebrating birthdays. He was 68.
 He'd been trucking for 46 years, away from home for nine months a year for most of them. He'd run through five marriages and now traveled with a little dog. 
 His son, who dropped out of school at 15, was also a trucker. His brothers and nephews were truckers. He'd tried to retire from trucking a few years ago, but he didn't like fishing so now he is back on the road driving routes like this one, from Las Vegas to Newport News.
 He wanted to be a trucker since he was a little boy. Several years ago, he calculated that he had driven more than 8 million miles. As he talked, eating a dessert of sugar-coated strawberries, his love of trucking infused every sentence. He had rebuilt his own vintage truck from the radiator on back. He described the challenges of hauling saltwater from the oil fields and huge turbines across country.
 He talked about the time two young women rear-ended him doing 110 miles per hour in a Camaro (they survived), about the dangers of marrying your secretary, about the introduction of power steering and about the two stints in the Army that interrupted his life on the road.
 Karl Marx once observed that ''Milton produced Paradise Lost for the same reason that a silk worm produces silk. It was an activity of his nature.'' Here was a guy who had found in trucking the activity of his essential nature.
 I don't know what came first, the mystique of trucking or the country music songs that defined the mystique, but this trucker had been captured by the ethos early on and had never let it go. He wore the right boots and clothes. He had a flat, never-surprised way of talking. He didn't smile or try to ingratiate.
 He has one of those hard jobs, like mining and steel-working, that comes with its own masculine mythology and way of being in the world. Jobs performed in front of a keyboard don't supply a code of dignity, which explains the spiritual anxiety that plagues the service economy. 
 As the trucker spoke, I was reminded of a book that came out a few years ago called ''The Dignity of Working Men,'' by the sociologist, Michele Lamont, who is now at Harvard. Lamont interviewed working-class men, and described what she calls ''the moral centrality of work.''
 Her subjects placed tremendous emphasis on working hard, struggling against adversity and mastering their craft. Her book is an antidote to simplistic notions of class structure, because it makes clear that these men define who is above and below them in the pecking order primarily in moral, not economic terms.
 People in other classes may define the social structure by educational attainment, income levels and job prestige, but these men are more likely to understand the social hierarchy on the basis of who can look out for themselves, who has the courage to be a fireman, a soldier or a cop, who has the discipline to put bread on the table every night despite difficulties.
 When Lamont's subjects looked at professionals and managers, they didn't necessarily see their social superiors. They saw manipulators. They defined themselves as straight-talking, shoot-from-the-hip guys. People who worked in offices, who worked by persuasion, were dismissed for being insincere, for playing games. 
 This is why class resentment in the U.S. is so complicated, despite inequality and lagging wages. When it comes to how people see the world, social and moral categories generally trump economic ones. 
 This is why successful populist movements always play on moral and social conditions first, and economic ones only later. This is why they appeal to the self-esteem of the working class, not on any supposed sense of victimization. This is why their protests are directed not against the rich, but against the word manipulators -- the lawyers, consultants and the news media.
 The trucker I met Saturday in Virginia not only believed in the American Dream, he believed he had achieved it. He owned his own truck. He owned a nice house in Texas on a lake near the Louisiana border. His brother owned five trucks. 
 He probably drew certain conclusions from the way I dress and talk. But if he was at all curious about what I did, he didn't show it, or didn't want to veer off into topics where he wasn't in control. Instead, he talked about the things any guy would want to put at the center of his life: highways, engines, hauling, dogs and food. 
 I didn't ask about the wives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MEN (77%); COUNTRY MUSIC (70%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



228 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Central Bank Steals Spotlight From Fed

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Carter Dougherty contributed reporting.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
The rest of Europe may be deep into its annual summer idyll, but the European Central Bank has been a hive of activity since last Thursday, when it thrust itself into a market rattled by fears of a credit crisis.
 On Monday, the bank injected 47.7 billion euros ($65 billion) into the financial system to keep European money markets from drying up. It was the third emergency operation in three business days, starting with a bold injection of 94.8 billion euros ($129 billion) on Thursday morning. 
 The moves have put a spotlight on the European Central Bank, which has traditionally played a supporting role to the United States Federal Reserve during global financial crises. This time, the Europeans acted earlier, and on a far larger scale, than the Fed or their Asian counterparts.
 Some market commentators have accused the bank of panicking, saying its intervention could send the wrong signal to hedge funds or other institutions engaged in high-wire investing: Namely, that they should expect a monetary safety net. Still, the remedy seems to have worked, at least for now, preventing the problems in the United States mortgage-lending market from draining broader markets in Europe. In a statement issued with its latest tender offer on Monday, the European Central Bank said ''money market conditions are normalizing'' and that the ''supply of aggregate liquidity is ample.''
 The Federal Reserve and the central banks of Japan and Australia also injected funds into the market.
 Several economists who follow the European bank said it had little choice but to respond on a huge scale after it became clear early on Thursday that banks in Europe were unable to obtain credit.
 ''If they had done less, and we had a systemic crisis, they would have been blamed for it,'' said Erik F. Nielsen, the chief European economist at Goldman Sachs in London.
 To some extent, the bank's central role was dictated by the clock. The crisis in confidence reached a critical stage in Europe on Thursday morning, hours before the markets opened in the United States.
 The first players to feel the credit squeeze were European banks, seeking to borrow in dollars. The lack of liquidity drove the overnight borrowing rate to 4.6 percent, well above the bank's benchmark rate of 4 percent.
 For days, European investors had been unnerved by disclosures that banks and investment funds faced losses because of exposure to mortgage-related investments. Then, the announcement by BNP Paribas on Thursday that it would suspend operations of three funds tipped the market into chaos.
 ''The problem is, these funds looked like normal euro money market funds,'' said Thomas Mayer, the chief European economist at Deutsche Bank. ''That led to a loss of trust in the market.''
 Like the Fed, the European bank is in daily contact with commercial banks. Through these contacts, central bankers became aware of the deepening market distress. Some observers, including Mr. Nielsen, suspect the bank's top leaders were also warned about the crisis directly by their commercial bank peers.
 The decision to intervene was made by the bank's executive board, a six-member committee headed by Jean-Claude Trichet. Bank officials said Mr. Trichet has been closely involved in the recent operations.
 In a sign of their success, the bank's moves quickly brought the overnight borrowing rate back to 4 percent.
 ''It looks like a very successful operation to stabilize the money market,'' Mr. Mayer said. ''The Fed has had slightly more trouble. On Thursday, they injected too little, and on Friday, they overcompensated.''
 After the European bank's initial injection of 94.8 billion euros at a rate of 4 percent -- its first such intervention since the aftermath of Sept. 11, 2001 -- the subsequent tenders on Friday and Monday represent a type of mopping up, Mr. Nielsen said.
 The bank is essentially rolling over a portion of the loans it issued on Thursday. The fact that it is injecting less money each day indicates that it is gradually withdrawing from the market.
 The big question now is whether the bank will adjust its monetary policy to account for the market mayhem. After its last policy meeting on Aug. 2, when the crisis appeared less threatening, Mr. Trichet signaled that the bank would raise rates by a quarter-point, to 4.25 percent, in September.
 Whether the bank opts to delay that increase will depend on whether markets calm down. On Monday, most European markets were up more than 2 percent. The Bank of England, in its first statement since the crisis began, said it did not plan to inject additional funds into the system, though it would lend funds at an interest rate above its benchmark.
 ''The climate of distrust could blow over with proper central bank action,'' Mr. Mayer of Deutsche Bank said. ''What will remain is a more sober calculation of credit risk. When a credit bubble deflates, you hit hard bumps.''
 Mr. Mayer doubted the mortgage-related problems would, by themselves, undermine Europe's robust economic performance. Deutsche Bank projects Europe's economy will grow 2.8 percent in 2007, easily outstripping that of the United States, projected to grow 2 percent.
 But he says a sharp slowdown in the United States would affect Europe, contrary to recent conventional wisdom.
 ''The good news is that real estate markets do not affect each other'' directly, Mr. Mayer said. The bad news is, ''as real estate financing tightens up, it affects all real estate markets, not just in the United States.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A trader in Frankfurt on Friday, the second recent day the European Central Bank added money to the markets. (Photograph by MARTIN LEISSL/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); BNP PARIBAS SA (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); BNP (PAR) (84%); BNP (BIT) (84%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



229 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Surge in Consumer Prices Stirs China's Concern About Overheated Economy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
Steeply rising food prices pushed inflation in China to 5.6 percent last month, the fastest pace in a decade, government figures showed Monday, prompting renewed concern about whether inflation would spread more widely in China and abroad.
 The surge in consumer prices last month pushed inflation past its previous peak of 5.3 percent, reached in July and August 2004. At that time, Beijing officials responded by imposing sometimes drastic administrative measures to slow what appeared to be an overheating economy.
 Local officials were jailed then for allowing large projects to proceed without central government approval, price controls were introduced for a variety of government services and thousands of workers were mobilized for emergency projects to expand overburdened ports. 
 But Beijing's response to higher prices this year has been more subdued because the increases have been largely confined so far to food. The government has gradually pushed up interest rates and raised the percentage of assets that banks must keep as reserves with the central bank, but it has refrained from trying to shock the economy into a slower pace of growth through sharp interest rate increases or severe administrative controls.
 Led by pork and other meats, consumer prices for food were up 15.4 percent from a year ago, pinching unskilled workers and other low-income city dwellers to the alarm of top Chinese officials.
 Floods in southern China have hurt crops. Grain prices have been rising globally because more grain is being used for ethanol production and because increasingly affluent people in developing countries are buying more grain-fed livestock and poultry. Pigs in China have been dying in significant numbers from diseases, driving up pork prices. 
 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China visited Beijing's wholesale food market on Aug. 4 and called for local governments across the country to check on food supply lines from farms and to subsidize poor families to keep food on their tables.
 ''The supply line for daily necessities should not be disrupted,'' Mr. Wen said, according to the official Xinhua news agency.
 The Chinese government is now paying much greater attention to food safety, following scandals like the contaminated pet food that killed cats and dogs in the United States. But experts doubt the increased emphasis on safety is causing inflation.
 ''New food safety rules may have an indirect, long-term effect on food prices, but have little impact on the price increases we are seeing now,'' Jing Ulrich, the chairman of China equities at JPMorgan Chase, said in an e-mail statement.
 Higher food prices may have a silver lining for China's leaders: when prices reflect greater demand for food, as opposed to flood damage or dying pigs, the price increases mean more income for China's 800 million peasants. President Hu Jintao has made it a top priority to increase farm incomes and reduce income inequality between rural and urban areas; when Mr. Wen visited the Beijing market in a trip covered by official media, he was careful to avoid criticizing farmers and did not accuse them of price gouging, although he did caution against hoarding and speculation in general.
 The real mystery is why inflation is largely confined to food. Excluding food, consumer prices were up 0.9 percent last month from a year earlier, about the same increase as in June.
 Economists are divided, and to some extent perplexed, by how well inflation has been contained in the rest of the economy. Some predict that prices will start rising soon for a broader range of goods and services, warning that the economy may have reached an unsustainable rate of growth when it expanded 11.9 percent in the second quarter.
 By comparison, growth of 9.6 percent in the second quarter of 2004 ignited a broad acceleration of inflation then. Ships had to wait as long as a month to unload supplies of critical industrial commodities like iron ore for steel production, driving up costs that producers passed on to consumers. Railroads were unable to clear docks of arriving cargoes, which piled up in enormous mounds at docks.
 National, provincial and local government agencies have engaged in a frenzy of spending since then on new ports, railroads, highways, pipelines and other infrastructure while businesses have been investing heavily in new factories, office buildings, apartment towers and more. Economists contend that the sheer scale of the spending has sometimes been wasteful and that unnecessary projects have been completed.
 But China has avoided so far the inflationary bottlenecks that briefly threatened to overwhelm it in 2004, even as growth has accelerated to a considerably faster pace.
 Some economists worry that broader inflation will still come to China. They point to a brisk expansion in the money supply last month, and suggest that soon too much money may be chasing too few goods, inevitably leading to broader rises in China's consumer price index.
 ''In our view, inflationary pressures will remain high in the coming months, and we see significant upside risks to our current C.P.I. forecasts,'' Liang Hong, an economist in the Hong Kong offices of Goldman Sachs, wrote in a research note.
 So far, stock investors are largely untroubled by the inflation figures released today. The Shanghai market in A shares climbed 1.52 percent while the Shenzhen A share market fell 0.89 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A foods administrator in Beijing corrected a pork price at a market yesterday. Pork prices in China have risen sharply recently. (Photograph by Teh Eng Koon/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) CHART: ''Inflation Surge'' Last month, consumer prices in China rose at their fastest rate in many years. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart shows YEAR-OVER-YEAR CHANGE IN CHINA'S CONSUMER PRICES in a line graph for the years 2001-2207 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (92%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PORK (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PET FOODS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); FLOODS & FLOODING (74%); ALCOHOLS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); POULTRY (73%); FARM LABOR (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (72%); HOG & PIG FARMING (71%); APPROVALS (71%); MEATS (71%); GRAIN MARKETS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BIOFUELS (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); DOGS (63%); CATS (60%); ETHANOL (50%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%); HU JINTAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



230 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Failure to Communicate

 BODY:
As it did last week, the Federal Reserve injected extra cash into the banking system yesterday, soothing financial markets that have been roiled by signs of a credit crunch. Unfortunately, the Fed's deft and timely response has not been matched by the White House or the Treasury Department, which have yet to exert strong leadership or even convey a full grasp of the seriousness of the problem. 
 As credit markets seized up and stocks gyrated last week, the White House appeared weirdly disconnected if not in outright denial. After a meeting with his economic team on Wednesday, Mr. Bush waxed on about tax cuts, while his Treasury secretary, Henry Paulson, said little. When asked at a press conference on Thursday about the state of the housing market -- a source of today's financial market woes -- Mr. Bush expressed the view that it is headed for a ''soft landing.'' In the face of soaring defaults, lender bankruptcies and investor losses, statements like that are so jarringly out of touch that they're bound to only evoke more anxiety -- just what jittery markets don't need. 
 And in one area where Mr. Bush could have made an immediate, concrete contribution for the better, he did the opposite. At the press conference, Mr. Bush said that he did not support a proposal to allow Fannie Mae -- the government-sponsored agency that is the nation's largest buyer of home loans -- to purchase an extra $72 billion of mortgages from banks and other lenders. Apparently following his cue, federal regulators blocked the proposal. 
 That's a shame, because some of the additional billions could be deployed as part of a well-regulated plan to help homeowners who are now at risk of default as tight money makes it difficult for them to refinance out of soaring adjustable-rate mortgages. Fortunately, the regulators' decision is reversible -- and should be reversed as a way to help hard pressedcredit-worthy borrowers. 
 What is especially troubling is that Mr. Bush's reasons for not supporting a larger role for Fannie Mae seem to be based more on politics than on a prudent analysis of the situation at hand. For years, the Bush administration has sought to diminish the power of Fannie Mae, mainly because it does not believe in a robust government role in affordable housing, Fannie Mae's mandate. If the agency were to play a helpful role now, the administration's arguments for weakening the institution could be undermined. 
 That is, no doubt, an important political consideration for the White House. But such considerations should have no place in crafting a response to a credit squeeze and an unfolding foreclosure crisis. In times like these, the president and his Treasury secretary should be working hard to inspire confidence and to help vulnerable Americans. We're waiting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (70%); TAX LAW (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); POLITICS (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



231 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Owner of Chinese Toy Factory Commits Suicide

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
The head of a Chinese company that was behind the recall this month of about a million Mattel toys committed suicide over the weekend, China's state-controlled news media reported Monday.
 Zhang Shuhong, a Hong Kong businessman and owner of Lee Der Industrial, a company that made toys for Mattel for 15 years, hanged himself in a company warehouse in Foshan, in southern China, The Southern Metropolis Daily said Monday.
 There was no independent confirmation of the suicide. A person who answered the phone at Lee Der's office in Foshan City, near Guangzhou, immediately hung up. 
 However, a spokeswoman for Mattel, which is based in El Segundo, Calif., released a statement Monday morning saying, ''We were saddened to learn of this tragic news.''
 The death is the latest development in a year filled with prominent recalls and product safety scandals involving goods made in China.
 Mattel, which makes Barbie dolls and Hot Wheels cars, recalled about a million toys worldwide after discovering that they were coated with lead paint. The recall was one of the largest this year and included 83 types of toys, among them ''Sesame Street'' and ''Dora the Explorer'' characters made under the Fisher-Price brand and sold worldwide.
 The string of recalls of Chinese-made products has heightened trade tensions between the United States and China and created a public relations disaster for China, where the economy and the trade surplus are growing at a blistering pace.
 Experts here say many Chinese factory owners -- often under intense pressure to lower production costs -- cut corners in making products and regularly use cheap and illegal substitutes. And indeed, in several of the recalls involving China this year, the government says companies intentionally used cheap or illegal substitutes.
 For instance, after the United States announced one of the largest pet food recalls in history, Chinese regulators said they found that two makers of food ingredients here intentionally added an industrial chemical called melamine to the feed to save money and artificially increase the protein count. Instead, they created a toxic brew that sickened or killed thousands of animals.
 Faced with growing criticism over the quality and safety of its food, toys, tires and other products, China has vigorously defended the quality of its goods, insisting that products made here are on par with products made in the United States and Europe. 
 But the government has also vowed to overhaul its food safety system, to crack down on companies that counterfeit and sell tainted goods and to punish severely those responsible for damaging the country's image and its booming exports drive.
 Just last week, regulators in Beijing revoked the export licenses of two toy manufacturers, including Lee Der, because of their roles in recalls. The other company, Hansheng Wood Products, was a supplier of the RC2 Corporation of Illinois, which recalled 1.5 million Thomas & Friends toy railway sets this year because they were coated with lead paint. 
 Beijing regulators said they revoked Lee Der's license because it used paint contaminated with excessive levels of lead, which could pose health dangers to children.
 The government said in an announcement last week that Lee Der's paint supplier had shipped the company a fake lead-free paint pigment that could be used in producing paint. The government said it was investigating the sale of fake lead-free pigment in China.
 In an interview this month, Mattel's chief executive, Robert A. Eckert, said the supplier that produced the lead-tainted recalled toys ''is a vendor plant with whom we've worked for 15 years; this isn't somebody that just started making toys for us.'' That supplier was later identified as Lee Der.
 In its report Monday, Southern Metropolis said that Lee Der officials said Mr. Zhang received the leaded paint from a company controlled by a close friend.
 China now makes about 80 percent of the world's toys and many of the world's biggest brand-name companies, including Mattel, Hasbro and McDonald's, use contract toy manufacturers in China.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A toy shelf in a Queens store was nearly empty after a recall of Fisher-Price preschool toys. (Photograph by Peter Foley/European Pressphoto Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE (92%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); FOOD RECALLS (78%); PRODUCT RECALLS (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (78%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (71%); EXPORT PRICES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); SCANDALS (68%); LEAD (67%); ANIMAL FOODS (67%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (67%); PET FOODS (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (64%); EXPORT CONTROLS (60%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%); LEAD PAINT (52%)

COMPANY: MATTEL INC (97%); RC2 CORP (61%)

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (97%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (97%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (61%); NAICS423910 SPORTING & RECREATIONAL GOODS & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



232 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; ; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Health Care in America: Let's Heal It (8 Letters)

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''World's Best Medical Care?'' (editorial, Aug. 12):
 As a former health care executive for a multihospital system responsible for quality management and patient satisfaction, I applaud you for the most accurate and succinct summary I've yet read regarding the status of medical care in the United States. With luck, the quality and fairness of our health care system will finally be a major issue this coming election. 
 It is time that our citizens woke up to the fact that our country's health care system is in crisis and is far from the best in the world as measured by any number of indicators. Every presidential candidate must clearly answer whether he or she believes that our present lack of universal health coverage is morally acceptable and how specifically the candidate proposes providing health coverage for all of our citizens, both employed and unemployed. 
 To say, as some of our radio talk-show hosts claim, that the United States has the best health care system in the world at the same time that our country doesn't provide universal health coverage, is simply a contradiction in terms. 
 Jack Scharf Morris Plains, N.J., Aug. 13, 2007
 To the Editor:
 I opted out of the system when I was told by my then doctor's receptionist that although I felt ill, he could not see me for seven weeks. I then made the best investment ever, by enrolling in what is called a ''boutique'' medical practice. For a yearly fee, I have 24/7 access, and my visits average 40 minutes, just to name a few benefits. 
 I have chronic fatigue syndrome, which is sometimes accompanied by fibromyalgia, an illness that causes agonizing pain. 
 I attend a support group, and I am ashamed at the fact that I can afford to pay for health care, when the women attendees cannot work because they can't stand up, have no health insurance, no money, can't buy pain medications and have no hope. World's best medical care? 
 Michael Golding Fort Myers, Fla., Aug. 12, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial reminded me of my experience in Spain a few years ago. A United States citizen, I was taken very ill on a visit to the island of Tenerife. Within five minutes, an ambulance was at the door. Upon arrival at a hospital, I was admitted immediately and seen and treated by three doctors. 
 Upon discharge, I went to the front office to pay my bill, and was told that I owed nothing for the service, and that a taxi was waiting at the entrance to take my wife and me back to my hotel. The taxi driver subsequently declined payment from me for his services.
 Eduardo Munoz Perou Livonia, Mich., Aug. 12, 2007
 To the Editor:
 The failure of the United States to develop a national insurance program is a primary reason for the inefficient coordination of care, lack of computer sophistication and poor communication between patient and doctor that reduce the efficacy of our health care. 
 With no centralized, single-payer national insurance plan, each patient and provider is on his or her own in identifying and coordinating the treatment of even such common conditions as a bronchitis attack. 
 A national health care plan would put dollars and technology toward standardizing treatment and otherwise resolving such confusion.
 Yet the insurance and drug industries continue to conduct an economically motivated campaign to thwart efforts to establish such a national health care plan, including by labeling such plans ''socialized medicine.'' 
 A national health insurance plan would not be ''socialized medicine,'' however, because under such a plan, physicians and other providers would not be government employees or entities. Instead, primary health care costs would be reimbursed by the federal government using our tax dollars. 
 The corporate actors who have thwarted a national health care plan merely use incendiary rhetoric and other obstructive tactics to conceal their true motive, which is to continue to make billions of dollars at the expense of the nation's health. 
 Rita Tobin Chappaqua, N.Y., Aug. 12, 2007
 To the Editor:
 You express some dismay that the world's most powerful economy does not produce the world's best medical care. But if a nation makes the economy its ultimate bottom line, and if that economy is unabashedly skewed to favor the wealthiest top percent, it should hardly be surprising that its health care system is calibrated to function in precisely the same fashion. 
 Joel Brence, M.D. Aspen, Colo., Aug. 12, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial correctly questions the adequacy of American health care. But your analysis misses a central flaw in our system: institutionalized cost shifting.
 Consider the following hypothetical scenario: An elderly patient, retired from a full-time career, is injured in a collision while driving a delivery truck during part-time post-retirement employment. Who will pay the bills for his consequent treatment? 
 Medicare, the state workers' compensation fund, the group health underwriter for his former full-time employer or an automobile insurer? And if all of these ''third parties'' manage to wriggle out of payment, will the patient or the treating physician and hospital have to ''eat'' the cost of care?
 Huge bureaucracies, diverting vast sums of money, have mushroomed into existence with the express mission of manipulating such quandaries to their sponsors' maximum advantage. These bureaucracies are bleeding us dry. It is for this reason that the United States needs a single-payer system.
 Donald Mender, M.D. Rhinebeck, N.Y., Aug. 13, 2007 The writer is an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine.
 To the Editor: 
 Your claim of shock at the lack of use of sophisticated information technology in the health care system is somewhat perplexing. Computers, software, networks, and Internet access all cost money. Manual records, while less desirable than electronic medical records, are a fraction of the cost in the short run. 
 The continually decreasing reimbursement rates to health care providers from both government and private insurers require the prioritization of financial resources to direct patient care. Until financial incentives are forthcoming, significant investment in information technology by both institutional and private health care providers will continue to be an unaffordable luxury. 
 Ira S. Novich, M.D. New Rochelle , N.Y., Aug. 12, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Also consider that elderly people can lose their homes and assets to pay for medical care. A 62-year-old friend of mine took a $60,000 mortgage out to pay for her husband's chemo before he died. Hard to do at that age. This doesn't happen in other countries. 
 Ivan Beggs Canton, Ohio, Aug. 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (67%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



233 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 Passenger Airline Pilots Report Iraq Missile Attack
 A European civil aviation authority is reviewing security conditions at airports in northern Iraq after pilots reported that their passenger airliner had been attacked by ground fire while taking off from Sulaimaniya.A8
 War Crimes Cited in Somalia 
 In a scathing report on the bloodshed in Somalia, Human Rights Watch accused the transitional government, Ethiopian troops and Somali insurgents of committing war crimes.A9 
 Fatah Rally Broken Up in Gaza
 Cracking down on growing signs of dissent in Gaza, Hamas broke up what Fatah-led opposition leaders said was a peaceful rally for freedom of expression.A8 
 Venezuela-Argentina Rift
 A scandal involving a Venezuelan businessman who tried to sneak a suitcase stuffed with nearly $800,000 into Argentina has divided the two nations.A3
 U.S. Aid for Mexico Drug War
 Mexico and the United States are holding intensive talks to develop a plan for the United States to provide billions of dollars to Mexico to support its fight against drug cartels. A3 
 French First Lady Under Fire
 Cecilia Sarkozy, the wife of the French president, is under scrutiny for ducking out of public appearances, including skipping a picnic with the Bush family in New England.A10 
 U.S.-India Agreement Jeered
 Politicians in the Indian Parliament from both the right and left pounced on the government for its landmark nuclear accord with the United States, heckling the prime minister. A10 
 NATIONAL A11-19 
 Karl Rove to Step Down, Ending Role as Top Aide
 With President Bush at his side on the White House South Lawn, Karl Rove said he would resign as a deputy White House chief of staff at the end of the month. The decision ends his role as the president's longest-serving and closest aide. A1 
 Graft in New Orleans
 The senior member on the New Orleans City Council pleaded guilty to a federal bribery charge and resigned his seat. He is the latest in a string of New Orleans public officials who have been touched by federal corruption charges. A11 
 Great Lakes Water Level Falls
 Water levels in the three upper Great Lakes are wavering far below normal, and experts expect the levels in Lake Superior to soon reach a record low, according to international bodies that monitor the lakes. A11
 New Leader for Nonprofit
 The Ford Foundation has selected a dark-horse candidate with little experience in institutional philanthropy as its new president. The appointment of Luis A. Ubinas is expected to stun the nonprofit world. A11 
 NASA Performs Tile Tests
 NASA conducted tests on the ground to determine whether spacewalking astronauts need to fix a deep gouge in the Endeavour's belly for re-entry, and assembled a team to weigh the three repair options. A15 
 Prosecutors Focus on Padilla
 Prosecutors barely mentioned Jose Padilla for long stretches of his three-month terrorism trial, focusing instead on his two co-defendants. But he received top billing in the government's closing arguments. A18 
 NEW YORK/REGION A20-21
 Killings Prompt Change In Battle-Weary Newark
 Since three college students were gunned down in Newark nine days ago, political rivals have promised to work together, young men in gang attire have pledged to put down their weapons and an oft-criticized mayor has found support. A1 
 U.S. Help for City Traffic Plan 
 Federal officials are expected to announce that they will help finance Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's congestion pricing plan to ease traffic in Manhattan if it is ultimately approved by lawmakers, according to a government official. A21
 BUSINESS DAY C1-10 
 Help for a Flailing Fund
 Goldman Sachs and a group of investors are injecting $3 billion of capital into one of its flailing hedge funds. The bank's decision is an indication of the severity of market movements as well as the potential for significant losses in the volatile hedge fund sector. C1 
 European Bank Criticized
 The European Central Bank injected 47.7 billion euros into the financial system to keep European money markets from drying up, leading some economists to accuse it of sending the wrong signal to financial institutions engaged in high-wire investing. C1 
 Point, Click, Stay Healthy
 Google and Microsoft are working on plans to combine Internet search, Web resources and online personal health records, intending to help people make smarter choices about their health habits and medical care. C1 
 Business Digest C2 
 OBITUARIES C16-17
 Brooke Astor
 A socialite who reigned over New York City society with a decided disdain for pretension and by day devoted her time and considerable resources to New York's unfortunate, she was 105.A1
 EDITORIAL A22-23
 Editorials: Mr. Rove gets out of town; failure to communicate; firing an AIDS fighter; Verlyn Klinkenborg with an appreciation of Elizabeth Murray.
 Columns: David Brooks and Bob Herbert.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); LAKES (84%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); BRIBERY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); AL FATAH (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); SCANDALS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); CHARITIES (72%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (71%); HAMAS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); DRUG POLICY (68%); CARTELS (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (62%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); CITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%); HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); GREAT LAKES (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); LAKE SUPERIOR (79%) SOMALIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MEXICO (93%); ISRAEL (92%); ETHIOPIA (92%); INDIA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



234 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: In Reversal, Japan's Central Bank Pulls Back $5 Billion

BYLINE: By DOW JONES

DATELINE: TOKYO, Tuesday, Aug. 14 

 BODY:
The Bank of Japan drained 600 billion yen ($5 billion) from the money supply Tuesday morning, after pumping money into the system for two days to ease fears of a liquidity crisis. 
 The bank injected 1 trillion yen on Friday and an additional 600 billion yen Monday. Central banks in Europe, the United States and Australia also pumped cash into the system in the face of credit fears set off by the subprime mortgage meltdown in the United States.
 The Japanese bank took the action after the overnight call rate stood Tuesday morning at 0.1 percent, far below the target of 0.5 percent, a sign of excess liquidity in the system, said a bank official, Hirotaki Hideshima.
 The goal is to bring the rate back to 0.5 percent, he said, but it is too soon to gauge the impact.
 ''Rates were trading low this morning, so as a natural response we're absorbing funds,'' Mr. Hideshima said. ''Yesterday and today the rates were strong after we provided funds, so this is just a symmetric response.'' 
 On Monday, he said it was possible that the rise Friday and Monday in the overnight rate -- an indication that banks had grown more cautious about lending -- was tied to the subprime problems abroad.
 On Tuesday, however, Mr. Hideshima said reports that the Bank of Japan's injections were part of a concerted global effort to head off a credit crisis had been overblown. The injections and draining are part of the central bank's normal operations each day, he said.
 One analyst at a foreign investment bank said Tuesday's low rate showed that banks no longer expected the Japanese central bank to raise interest rates this month and that the pace of future rate increases will slow as the concerns about subprime lending ripple through global financial markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



235 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Qwest Picks Phone Veteran To Succeed Retiring Chief

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Qwest Communications named Edward A. Mueller, a telecommunications industry veteran and former chief executive of the retailer Williams-Sonoma, as its new chief executive yesterday.
 Qwest shares rose as much as 3 percent after the phone company said Mr. Mueller would succeed Richard C. Notebaert, who is to retire tomorrow. Mr. Mueller will also serve as chairman. 
 Mr. Notebaert and the retired chief financial officer, Oren G. Shaffer, helped Qwest get past hefty debt after the technology bubble burst and through an accounting scandal that led to the conviction of the former chief executive Joseph P. Nacchio on insider trading charges.
 Mr. Mueller, 60, has more than 34 years of telecommunications experience, Qwest said. He was chief of Ameritech from 2000 to 2002 and of Pacific Bell from 1997 to 1999. He served as chief of Williams-Sonoma from 2003 to 2006.
 Mr. Mueller told reporters in a conference call that he had no plans to shift Qwest's operations substantially or shake up its management ranks.
 ''I don't come in with a mandate to do something different,'' he said. ''Something has to be going right to have the performance they have had. I probably would not have taken the job if I had a lot of worries.''
 Qwest, whose shares have more than doubled in price with Mr. Notebaert at the helm, is one of the smaller of the former regional Bell operating companies in the American telephone market.
 The company is considered particularly vulnerable to competition from cable operators and to declining sales of traditional phone services.
 Unlike the industry leader, AT&T, and the No. 2 carrier, Verizon Communications, Qwest does not have a wireless service. Its territory, which includes Arizona, Colorado and Wyoming, is seen as more costly to maintain and a difficult area for the introduction of new services.
 Qwest agreed to pay Mr. Mueller an annual base salary of $1.2 million, with a target bonus percentage of 200 percent, according to a regulatory filing.
 His compensation package includes options to buy about 2.08 million shares at Friday's closing price of $8.37 a share, and a restricted stock award of 896,000 shares.
 Shares of Qwest rose 13 cents, to $8.50, on the New York Stock Exchange. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); ACCOUNTING (70%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (64%); SCANDALS (56%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (94%); CENTURYLINK INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (94%); CTL (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%)

PERSON: EDWARD A MUELLER (91%); RICHARD C NOTEBAERT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



236 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: Global Trade: U.S. Seeks W.T.O. Ruling On Product Piracy In China

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Bush administration asked the World Trade Organization to rule in a complaint against China over piracy of copyrighted movies, music, software and books, escalating a dispute that has strained commercial relations between the two trading giants. After consultations failed to resolve differences over what the United States argues are weak Chinese laws to safeguard patents and copyrights, the Trade Representative's office took the formal step of asking the trade organization, which is based in Geneva, to decree that China's laws fall short of international agreements. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); COPYRIGHT (88%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (87%); PATENTS (85%); GLOBALIZATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (82%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2009



237 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Letters: The Evolution of Prosperity

 BODY:
The Evolution of Prosperity
 To the Editor:
 Re ''In Dusty Archives, a Theory of Affluence'' (Aug. 7): The economic historian Gregory Clark surmises that England's Industrial Revolution can be explained by the high fertility of the wealthy, who infused the nation's population with the values and characteristics conducive to economic growth. 
 One problem with this thesis is that throughout the Middle Ages, most of England's wealth was held by a parasitic aristocracy that exhibited few of the bourgeois virtues we associate with middle-class achievement. The enterprising workers who laid the foundation for industrialization were commoners of humble ancestry.
 No one should be surprised that wealthier households had more surviving offspring, but it's a great leap to conclude that prosperity originated in the evolutionary success of ''the right sort of people.'' 
 Gary Mongiovi Jamaica, Queens The writer is a professor of economics at St. John's University.
 $#149;
 To the Editor:
 Gregory Clark believes that ''people gradually developed the strange new behaviors required to make a modern economy work.''
 The modern economy works? I'd like to invite Dr. Clark to travel with me to Baghdad, to Gaza, to Zimbabwe, to the ''dead'' zones in the Chesapeake Bay and off the coast of Oregon. Sure, it works for a select few humans. But ''modern'' has been disastrous for most humans and most of Earth's other species. And with global warming, it may well yet prove the ultimate disaster for humanity as well.
 Kirk S. Nevin Corvallis, Ore.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALAN BAKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); HISTORY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2009



238 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 712 words

 BODY:
HELP FOR HEDGE FUNDS Goldman Sachs and investors are adding $3 billion to a shaky hedge fund that lost about 30 percent of its value last week. Goldman's chief financial officer, David Viniar, said the investment should not be seen as a bailout. Some analysts beg to differ. 
 The European Central Bank has put another 47.7 billion euros ($65 billion) into the financial system to keep European money markets afloat -- the third emergency operation in three business days. [C1.] 
 As anxiety over the mortgage markets has expanded, some investors in mutual funds are moving to the safety of money market funds and Treasuries. [C4.]
 Aegis Mortgage Corporation, a Houston-based subprime lender, has filed for bankruptcy protection. [C10.] 
 Wall Street closed lower after the Federal Reserve and other central banks added more cash to their banking systems. [C4.]
 BETTER HEALTH FROM THE WEB Google and Microsoft are making plans to improve the nation's health care by using and improving Web resources so people can make smarter choices about their health care. The companies plan to make some money from the ventures, too. [C1.]
 BATTLE OVER THE STARS The Hollywood agent Ed Limato has won a battle against his employer, International Creative Management, over whether Mr. Limato can leave and take his clients -- including Steve Martin and Mel Gibson -- with him. [C1.]
 STOCK BUYBACK BY SEARS The Sears Holdings Corporation, the biggest United States department store company, is planning to buy back $1.5 billion in stock. It also said second-quarter profit dropped as much as 42 percent, within analysts' reduced forecasts, after it cut prices on seasonal clothing. Sears has already spent $3 billion on stock since 2005. [C7.]
 LAWYER QUITS CHIP MAKER Qualcomm, the mobile phone chip maker facing several legal challenges at home and abroad -- including a patent dispute with Broadcom, a competitor -- said its general counsel had resigned. [C3.]
 PROFIT TRIPLES AT BLACKSTONE The Blackstone Group, the private equity firm, said that second-quarter net income more than tripled over the period a year ago in its first earnings announcement as a public company. [C4.]
 RETAIL SALES RISE A LITTLE Shopping for clothes, furniture and electronics products rose last month, giving a modest boost to retail sales despite continued weakness in the demand for new cars. [C3.]
 NEW CHIEF AT QWESTQwest Communications has chosen Edward A. Mueller, below, a telecommunications industry veteran and former chief executive of the retailer Williams-Sonoma, as its chief executive, succeeding Richard C. Notebaert. ''I don't come in with a mandate to do something different,'' Mr. Mueller, 60, said. [C8.]
 LENDER SUES OVER BUYOUT The Accredited Home Lenders Holding Company has sued the private equity firm Lone Star Funds to force it to finish its $400 million takeover of Accredited, a money-losing subprime mortgage lender. [C10.]
 MIDWEST BID IS ABANDONEDAirTran Holdings has abandoned its offer for a rival air carrier, the Midwest Air Group, and will refocus instead on slowly expanding around the country. [C10.]
 ALAN GREENSPAN, ADVISER Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman, has taken a job advising the securities division of Deutsche Bank. [C10.]
 INFLATION RISES IN CHINA Sharply rising food prices pushed inflation in China to 5.6 percent last month, leading to new worries about the spread of inflation. [C3.]
 FORD FOUNDATION PRESIDENT The Ford Foundation has selected Luis A. Ubinas, who has worked for the consulting firm McKinsey & Company for 18 years, as its president. [A11.]
 CHEMICAL COMPANY IS SOLD Akzo Nobel, the world's largest maker of paints and coatings, has agreed to purchase Imperial Chemical Industries for $:8 billion, or $16 billion, after raising its offer twice in two months. [C5.]
 MAGAZINE CIRCULATION STEADY New figures show that magazine circulation has held steady this year, with big increases among celebrity-oriented magazines. One exception was Time magazine, which had a substantial drop. [C7.]
 STRANDED FLIERS PROTEST Passengers on a Continental flight that sat on the tarmac for five hours protested by clapping and drumming on overhead bins. Then the pilot called the police. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: Sears Holdings Per share 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); RETAILERS (86%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EURO (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); LAWYERS (70%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (69%); RETAIL SALES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); PRICE CUTTING (64%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (64%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (63%); LITIGATION (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); ACCREDITATION (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); PATENTS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (82%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (73%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); GOOGLE INC (69%); ACCREDITED HOME LENDERS HOLDING CO (60%); LONE STAR FUNDS (60%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT LTD (55%); INTERNATIONAL CREATIVE MANAGEMENT INC (55%); QUALCOMM INC (53%); BROADCOM CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (82%); BX (NYSE) (73%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (69%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (53%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (82%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (82%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (82%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (69%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (60%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (60%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%)

PERSON: EDWARD A MUELLER (77%); RICHARD C NOTEBAERT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (71%) EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2009



239 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Pilots Say Missile Was Fired at Airliner in Northern Iraq

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS; James Glanz contributed reporting from Baghdad.

 BODY:
A European civil aviation authority said yesterday that it was reviewing security conditions at airports in northern Iraq after two pilots reported that their passenger airliner had been attacked by ground fire last week while taking off from Sulaimaniya. 
 The plane, a McDonnell Douglas MD-83 operated by Nordic Airways and carrying more than 120 people, was not struck and continued to Stockholm.
 But its pilots have told investigators that they saw the flash and light of a missile rise from the ground, arc near the plane and then drop away as they climbed between 3,000 and 6,000 feet, said Anders Lundblad, a spokesman for Luftfartsstyrelsen, the civil aviation authority in Sweden, where Nordic Airways is registered.
 On Thursday night, the time of the reported attack, there was reported to be good weather and clear visibility. 
 Just one commercial airplane, a DHL cargo carrier, is known to have been struck by a missile in Iraq, in November 2003, when the plane landed in Baghdad with its left wing in flames. But at least 34 helicopters have been shot down, according to a tally by the Brookings Institution, including a CH-46 Marine helicopter brought down by a surface-to-air missile in February 2007, killing seven people. 
 Some American officials have suggested that insurgents have been using more sophisticated means to shoot down helicopters as the conflict has worn on.
 Still, those attacks have been clustered around the center of the country, and the events in Sulaimaniya could be the first indication that insurgent efforts to disrupt Western air transport have moved north.
 The accusation that there had been missile fire was a potential blow to the reputation and economy of the Kurdish region, and Kurdish officials disputed the contention that the plane came under fire. 
 Two Swedish aviation companies have operated regular routes serving Sulaimaniya and Erbil, the international airports in northern Iraq. On Friday, all Swedish flights to the region were suspended indefinitely.
 Northern Iraq, largely under Kurdish administration since 1991, is Iraq's safest area and has been spared most of the sectarian violence and terrorist attacks that have plagued regions to the south. It is also geographically isolated. Many of its residents depend on its airports for travel in and out of the region, as do Western civilian contractors and, to a lesser degree, travelers from the United States government. 
 Brig. Sarkawt Hassan Jalal, the director of security in the Sulaimaniya region, said local investigators had found no evidence of a missile shot. ''There was not an attack, not even from the bullet of a pistol,'' he said by telephone. ''No rocket, not a thing. All of this is just propaganda.''
 While all Swedish flights are forbidden indefinitely, Mr. Lundblad said that the other Swedish carrier, Viking Airlines, wanted to continue its flights and that the aviation authority would examine security this week. ''What we will do is see if there is any information that might change this decision,'' he said. 
 The Sulaimaniya airport, a former Iraqi military landing strip used in the Iran-Iraq war and later deserted, was reopened by Kurds cooperating with the Central Intelligence Agency and the American Special Forces in early 2003, weeks before of the start of the war. 
 At the time, it was a lone asphalt strip in a field. It has since been developed as an international airport, with a small but modern terminal and routes to Baghdad and several countries, including Jordan and Turkey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); HELICOPTERS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%)

COMPANY: DHL VERWALTUNGS GMBH (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (69%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (94%); SWEDEN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



240 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Defending Nuclear Pact, India Premier Faces Jeers

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Aug. 13 

 BODY:
Simmering distrust of the United States broke into full-throated protest on Monday in the Indian Parliament, as politicians from the right and left pounced on the government for its landmark nuclear accord with Washington, heckling the prime minister before he could defend it. 
 The accord, known as the 123 agreement and announced last month, has been regarded as the cornerstone of deepening relations between the world's largest and oldest democracies. It would allow India to buy nuclear fuel and technology on the world market for its civilian nuclear power plants. The ''123'' refers to a section of the United States Atomic Energy Act. 
 India would retain the right to reprocess atomic fuel and to continue to test its nuclear weapons -- two items on which New Delhi bargained hard. In exchange, India has agreed to separate its reactors for civilian use, to open them up to inspections and to build a new facility, under international safeguards, for reprocessing. 
 Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has defended the deal as good for India's strategic and economic interests. But as he approached the podium in the lower house of Parliament on Monday afternoon to give his first address since the deal was signed, members of Parliament broke out in howls of protest and pumped their fists. The outburst was perhaps more remarkable for its spectacle than its substance. 
 The speaker of the house, Somnath Chatterjee, appealed for order. ''The country's prime minister cannot speak,'' he ventured. It was in vain. 
 Many of the members called the nuclear agreement ''a betrayal.'' They accused the government of being ''sycophants'' to the United States. ''Take it back! Take it back!'' they shouted. 
 The prime minister stood at the podium and finally spoke even as the protests continued. ''India is too large and too important a country to have the independence of its foreign policy taken away by any power,'' he said. The deal, he argued, does not restrict ''India's right to undertake future nuclear tests, if it is necessary.'' 
 Members of his party put on their headphones to hear him speak above the din. At one point in his speech, the parties on the political left, which provide crucial support to the coalition government led by his Congress Party, walked out. 
 The left has opposed the deal ever since details became public, less over the details of the accord than the principle of closer ties to America. ''We do not share the optimism that India can become a great power with the help of the United States,'' Prakash Karat, the general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), said Saturday. 
 Anti-Americanism, political observers here say, is a swift way to court votes from the country's sizable Muslim minority. 
 Even the conservative Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, which led the drive for an American alliance before being voted out of power in 2004, joined the protest. In a tart statement last week, the party pointed out that the Congress Party did not enjoy ''a decisive mandate.'' 
 ''Same bed, different dreams,'' said Naresh Chandra, a retired diplomat who had served as India's ambassador to the United States under four different prime ministers. ''They sense political advantage in this opportunity.''
 American critics of the deal have described it as an overly permissive exception for New Delhi, potentially allowing it to continue to advance its nuclear arsenal while refusing to sign the global nonproliferation treaty. 
 The United States Congress will have to approve it one more time, after India secures the support of the 45 nations that make up the Nuclear Suppliers Group and the International Atomic Energy Agency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POWER PLANTS (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



241 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 570 words

 BODY:
The Evolution of Prosperity
 To the Editor:
 Re ''In Dusty Archives, a Theory of Affluence'' (Aug. 7): The economic historian Gregory Clark surmises that England's Industrial Revolution can be explained by the high fertility of the wealthy, who infused the nation's population with the values and characteristics conducive to economic growth. 
 One problem with this thesis is that throughout the Middle Ages, most of England's wealth was held by a parasitic aristocracy that exhibited few of the bourgeois virtues we associate with middle-class achievement. The enterprising workers who laid the foundation for industrialization were commoners of humble ancestry. 
 No one should be surprised that wealthier households had more surviving offspring, but it's a great leap to conclude that prosperity originated in the evolutionary success of ''the right sort of people.'' 
 Gary Mongiovi Jamaica, Queens The writer is a professor of economics at St. John's University.
 $#149;
 To the Editor:
 Gregory Clark believes that ''people gradually developed the strange new behaviors required to make a modern economy work.''
 The modern economy works? I'd like to invite Dr. Clark to travel with me to Baghdad, to Gaza, to Zimbabwe, to the ''dead'' zones in the Chesapeake Bay and off the coast of Oregon. Sure, it works for a select few humans. But ''modern'' has been disastrous for most humans and most of Earth's other species. And with global warming, it may well yet prove the ultimate disaster for humanity as well.
 Kirk S. Nevin Corvallis, Ore.
 Of Particles and the Deity
 To the Editor:
 Re ''What's in a Name? Parsing the 'God Particle,' the Ultimate Metaphor'' (Essay, Aug. 7): Dennis Overbye writes: God ''has been trivialized by association with the image of a white-bearded Caucasian-looking creature who sits in the clouds attended by harp-strumming angels.'' Surely his tongue must have been planted firmly in cheek. No serious theologian or lay person believes in that kind of God, either. 
 Evan Lowenthal Jersey City
 Patients and Hospital Care
 To the Editor:
 Re ''In a Hospital Stay, No Time to Rest'' (Cases, Aug. 7): Having recently been hospitalized, I experienced the same parade of interruptions as Caitlin Kelly. But what especially stressed me was the day-and-night loud ringing of the alarms on various monitors up and down the corridor. 
 In desperation, I asked a nurse to deal with the alarms. She went down the corridor and dealt with the monitors, but another one would go off a few minutes later. I finally agreed to pay for a private room so that I could close the door and block the noise. Expensive, but blissful. The next morning, when a doctor came, I begged to be released and he agreed. I truly didn't improve until I got home and had some peace.
 Sharon Tomalin Philadelphia
 To the Editor:
 Caitlin Kelly makes some good points about the ways hospitals could increase the comfort of patients in their care. However, she seems to have missed the point of hospitalization. While rest can be an important part of healing, the primary purpose of a hospital stay is treatment of acute illness. Such treatment often involves frequent interruptions and necessary changes in staff.
 Ms. Kelly may have managed to avoid being labeled a ''difficult patient,'' but she has insulted the long list of professionals who interrupted her to do their job of caring for her.
 Teresa Owens Seattle

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (Drawing by ALAN BAKER)
 (Drawing by CAMILLA ENGMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); HISTORY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); HOSPITALS (64%); HIGGS BOSON (63%); RELIGION (62%); NURSES & NURSING (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



242 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: In Signing Picks, Some Teams Set Their Own Price

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
If the commissioner's office could, it would put a cap on bonuses paid to drafted players. It can't, so it instead recommends bonuses for each slot of the first five rounds of the June draft.
 If it could, the commissioner's office would punish clubs that ignore the recommendations. It can't, so officials wait out the signing period and hope that few clubs ignore their recommendations.
 For the first time, the signing period ends at midnight Aug. 15. Generally, the previous deadline was the day a player began college classes in the fall. The commissioner's office reported yesterday that 18 of the 30 first-round choices had signed contracts, meaning there should be a flurry of activity between now and tomorrow. 
 Baseball America, which tracks signings and other draft developments, says that only two of the signed first-round choices have received bonuses above the estimated recommendations, and only one of them was significantly over. 
 The players to watch for bonuses exceeding the recommended slots are David Price, a left-hander from Vanderbilt, who was the first player chosen; and four Scott Boras clients: Mike Moustakas, an infielder drafted by the Royals; Matt Wieters, catcher, Orioles; Rick Porcello, pitcher, Tigers; and Andrew Brackman, pitcher, Yankees.
 Some clubs avoid Boras clients because they abhor negotiating with him. The recommended bonuses would work if clubs could entice Boras to accept them, but he said yesterday: ''We don't talk about slots. We talk about the value of players.''
 ''The slotting system itself is arbitrary and subjective,'' he added. ''For it to be a true system, you have to be assured the best talents are being chosen first. The clubs base their selections on signability, not on talent. Where clubs use economic criteria for selection, the system becomes an arbitrary and capricious practice.''
 The most interesting negotiating contest will probably be the one between Boras and the Royals over Moustakas, a California high school shortstop, who was the second player selected. 
 David Glass, the Kansas City owner, has long been an ultraconservative and militant owner and an ardent supporter of Commissioner Bud Selig. He won't readily allow his baseball people to exceed the number slotted for Moustakas, but those baseball people obviously value Moustakas highly.
 A similar conflict exists in Baltimore, where the Orioles want to sign Wieters, from Georgia Tech, but the club's new president of baseball operations, Andy MacPhail, was instrumental in designing the new draft rules when he was working with the commissioner's office.
 Most clubs have adhered to the recommendations, and those that have say they are at a disadvantage to those that haven't. The Yankees, the Red Sox, the Tigers and the Rangers have been identified by others as teams that have most often exceeded the slotted figures.
 To their credit, the general managers of the Red Sox, the Tigers and the Rangers acknowledged yesterday that they had indeed done that. Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman did not return a call seeking comment.
 ''I don't think it's just been those four clubs,'' David Dombrowski of Detroit said. ''We've exceeded the recommendations in a couple of instances, but not a great number.''
 He mentioned pitcher Andrew Miller (2006) and outfielder Cameron Maybin (2005). A year ago, the Tigers signed Miller to a four-year, $7,277,000 contract that included a $3.55 million signing bonus, when the slotted amount, according to Baseball America, was $2.44 million.
 ''We thought it was justified based on his talent,'' Dombrowski said of Miller, who became a part of the team's starting rotation June 10.
 Jon Daniels, the Rangers' general manager, said, ''In the past we've gone over in specific instances, but it was more the exception than the rule.''
 Theo Epstein of the Red Sox said he believed they, too, had exceeded the recommendations a couple of times. But when asked what prevented teams from exceeding the slots, he said, ''As far as I know, teams have the right to make their own decisions about the draft.''
 Rob Manfred, baseball's executive vice president for labor relations, said the clubs' ability to act on their own was what legitimized the system, which has been in effect since 2000. 
 ''It's only advice,'' he said. ''Going over the number is an individual club decision. We would not discipline them for going over the number.''
 The system nevertheless has a whiff of collusion, which the owners were guilty of in the mid-1980s and which cost them $280 million and a ton of credibility. The difference is that the collective-bargaining agreement specifically prohibits concerted action toward free agents but is silent on this aspect of the draft.
 The union, which has to approve draft rules because draft-choice compensation is linked to free agency, hasn't fought the slotting system. But with some clubs exceeding the slotted figures, it's other clubs that are unhappy.
 ''The irony is,'' a general manager said, ''the owners meeting is the day after the deadline. It will be interesting to see how that plays out.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



243 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Health Care in America: Let's Heal It

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''World's Best Medical Care?'' (editorial, Aug. 12):
 As a former health care executive for a multihospital system responsible for quality management and patient satisfaction, I applaud you for the most accurate summary I've yet read regarding medical care in the United States. With luck, the quality and fairness of our health care system will finally be a major issue this coming election. 
 It is time that our citizens woke up to the fact that our country's health care system is in crisis and is far from the best in the world. Every presidential candidate must clearly answer whether he or she believes that our present lack of universal health coverage is morally acceptable and how specifically the candidate proposes providing health coverage for all of our citizens, both employed and unemployed. 
 To say, as some of our radio talk-show hosts claim, that the United States has the best health care system in the world at the same time that our country doesn't provide universal health coverage is simply a contradiction in terms.
 Jack Scharf
 Morris Plains, N.J., Aug. 13, 2007
 To the Editor:
 I opted out of the system when I was told by my then doctor's receptionist that although I felt ill, he could not see me for seven weeks. I then made the best investment ever, by enrolling in what is called a ''boutique'' medical practice. For a yearly fee, I have 24/7 access, and my visits average 40 minutes, just to name a few benefits. 
 I have chronic fatigue syndrome, which is sometimes accompanied by fibromyalgia, an illness that causes agonizing pain. I attend a support group, and I am ashamed at the fact that I can afford to pay for health care, when the women attendees cannot work because they can't stand up, have no health insurance, no money, can't buy pain medications and have no hope. World's best medical care? Michael Golding
 Fort Myers, Fla., Aug. 12, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial reminded me of my experience in Spain a few years ago. A United States citizen, I was taken very ill on a visit to the island of Tenerife. Within five minutes, an ambulance was at the door. Upon arrival at a hospital, I was admitted immediately and seen and treated by three doctors. 
 Upon discharge, I went to the front office to pay my bill, and was told that I owed nothing for the service, and that a taxi was waiting at the entrance to take my wife and me back to my hotel. The taxi driver subsequently declined payment from me for his services.
 Eduardo Munoz Perou
 Livonia, Mich., Aug. 12, 2007
 To the Editor:
 The failure of the United States to develop a national insurance program is a primary reason for the inefficient coordination of care, lack of computer sophistication and poor communication between patient and doctor that reduce the efficacy of our health care. 
 With no centralized, single-payer national insurance plan, each patient and provider is on his or her own in identifying and coordinating the treatment of even such common conditions as a bronchitis attack. 
 A national health care plan would put dollars and technology toward standardizing treatment and otherwise resolving such confusion.
 Yet the insurance and drug industries continue to conduct an economically motivated campaign to thwart efforts to establish such a national health care plan, including by labeling such plans ''socialized medicine.'' 
 A national health insurance plan would not be ''socialized medicine,'' however, because under such a plan, physicians and other providers would not be government employees or entities. Instead, primary health care costs would be reimbursed by the federal government using our tax dollars. 
 The corporate actors who have thwarted a national health care plan merely use incendiary rhetoric and other obstructive tactics to conceal their true motive, which is to continue to make billions of dollars at the expense of the nation's health. Rita Tobin
 Chappaqua, N.Y., Aug. 12, 2007
 To the Editor:
 You express some dismay that the world's most powerful economy does not produce the world's best medical care. But if a nation makes the economy its ultimate bottom line, and if that economy is unabashedly skewed to favor the wealthiest top percent, it should hardly be surprising that its health care system is calibrated to function in precisely the same fashion. Joel Brence, M.D.
 Aspen, Colo., Aug. 12, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial correctly questions the adequacy of American health care. But your analysis misses a central flaw in our system: institutionalized cost shifting.
 Consider the following hypothetical scenario: An elderly patient, retired from a full-time career, is injured in a collision while driving a delivery truck during part-time post-retirement employment. Who will pay the bills for his consequent treatment? 
 Medicare, the state workers' compensation fund, the group health underwriter for his former full-time employer or an automobile insurer? And if all of these ''third parties'' manage to wriggle out of payment, will the patient or the treating physician and hospital have to ''eat'' the cost of care?
 Huge bureaucracies, diverting vast sums of money, have mushroomed into existence with the express mission of manipulating such quandaries to their sponsors' maximum advantage. These bureaucracies are bleeding us dry. It is for this reason that the United States needs a single-payer system.
 Donald Mender, M.D.
 Rhinebeck, N.Y., Aug. 13, 2007
 The writer is an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine.
 To the Editor:
 Also consider that elderly people can lose their homes and assets to pay for medical care. A 62-year-old friend of mine took a $60,000 mortgage out to pay for her husband's chemo before he died. Hard to do at that age. This doesn't happen in other countries. Ivan Beggs
 Canton, Ohio, Aug. 13, 2007

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL SLOAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (67%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



244 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Ford Foundation Selects Its New Leader From Outside the Philanthropic World

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The Ford Foundation has selected a dark-horse candidate with little experience in institutional philanthropy as its new president.
 Luis A. Ubinas, who has worked for McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm, for 18 years, will lead the organization, the nation's second-largest foundation, with $11 billion in assets.
 Mr. Ubinas's appointment, to be announced today, is expected to stun the nonprofit world, which has been speculating about who in the field would succeed Susan V. Berresford, Ford's influential leader for more than a decade, when she retires in January. 
 Increasingly, however, high-profile nonprofit jobs are going to people who have done well in the business world or in politics, a reflection on the pressure on charities and foundations to become more accountable.
 Kathryn S. Fuller, chairwoman of Ford's board, said the trustees deliberately did not specify the type of experience they were seeking for the job.
 ''Where we started and ended,'' Ms. Fuller said, ''was first and foremost with values of the institution, which are a bedrock commitment to social justice and innovation and to helping those whose voices are not heard for any number of reasons, whether economic or because of discrimination.'' 
 Steve Gunderson, president of the Council on Foundations, said of Mr. Ubinas: ''Look at his experience helping traditional media companies respond to the new tools of the economy. Nobody faces more changes than philanthropy because we're in the middle of dramatic growth that has created new scrutiny.''
 Mr. Ubinas, 44, grew up in the South Bronx and attended private schools in Manhattan on scholarship before going to Harvard and, later, its business school, using a combination of scholarships and loans. ''Access to educational opportunities changed my life,'' he said. ''I wouldn't be here talking to you had it not been for the work done by foundations in the 1960s and 1970s to increase equal access to education.''
 He has also worked with nonprofit groups, including Leadership Education and Development, which provides educational opportunities to minority students, and the United Way of the Bay Area in San Francisco, where he lives. He plans to move to New York, where the foundation is based, with his wife and two children.
 ''For as long as I've been working, I've been working in parallel in the for-profit and nonprofit arenas in preparation for this moment,'' Mr. Ubinas said.
 Michael P. Danziger, executive director of the Steppingstone Foundation, has known Mr. Ubinas since they were students at the Collegiate School in Manhattan. 
 ''In ninth grade, Luis showed up,'' Mr. Danziger said. ''He was different from the traditional Collegiate student because he was from the Bronx and circumstances far less fortunate than most of us, but he struck me as somebody who was so comfortable with who he was that he was able to bridge the two worlds he traveled between each day with seeming ease.''
 Mr. Ubinas helped Mr. Danziger start Steppingstone, a Boston charity that helps urban children get an education to prepare them for college, and he served on its board for seven years.
 To the public, Ford is a symbol of traditional foundations, but its critics in the nonprofit world see it as bureaucratic and inefficient -- it has more than 500 employees and its median grant is small by contemporary standards.
 Still, Mr. Ubinas said he had no plans to overhaul Ford radically. ''Change for change's sake is never good,'' he said. ''For me, it's about innovation, and innovation has defined Ford for a long time.''
 Ford Foundation grants helped start the Grameen Bank, a microlending organization, as well as organizations like the Local Initiatives Support Coalition, a community development group. 
 Under Ms. Berresford, the foundation committed $355 million to help foreign students pursue graduate-level studies in an effort to stem the ''brain drain'' in developing countries and used a $52 million grant to generate $4 billion in housing loans for almost 50,000 low-income families. Most recently, she helped create a nonprofit to support artists.
 ''The core challenge will be ensuring continuity,'' Mr. Ubinas said, ''ensuring that I further the excellent history of the Ford Foundation and the phenomenal work it has done over the last 70 years.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Luis A. Ubinas will succeed Susan V. Berresford as foundation president in January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (93%); PHILANTHROPY (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (86%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); STUDENT LOANS (68%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (63%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOUNDATIONS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



245 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: For a Day at Watkins Glen, Spitzer's in His Adopted Element

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: WATKINS GLEN, N.Y., Aug. 12 

 BODY:
Leo Hindery Jr., cable television entrepreneur and onetime professional race car driver, walked out of the buffet at the hospitality club at the racetrack here and spotted Gov. Eliot Spitzer in his pressed trousers and buttoned-down pinstripe shirt.
 Mr. Hindery, who finished first at Le Mans in 2005 and currently serves as an economic adviser to the presidential candidate John Edwards, hugged Mr. Spitzer, then bellowed that the governor was ''the best Jewish Nascar fan they've ever had.''
 Mr. Spitzer beamed. ''Hey come on, we're trying to cross all cultural barriers here!'' he cracked. Not long after, he headed to a tent to chat with the elite drivers of the sport, who were gathered with a pastor, and bowed his head with them as the pastor asked for protection from harm on the track ''in Christ's name.'' 
 For almost nine hours on Sunday, Eliot Spitzer, the Upper East Sider with the Princeton and Harvard education and the reputation for a hyperkinetic braininess, indulged his other side. Nascar, possibly the vehicle for the nation's most overt display of country fried machismo, has recently become a calculated interest for ambitious politicians trying to appeal to a working-class male demographic. 
 Mr. Spitzer, however, can lay a legitimate claim to fandom, and appears to relish the sport as fervently as he does the Yankees.
 Ever since he married his North Carolina-born wife, whose brother is a top engineer at Hendrick Motorsports, one of Nascar's top teams, Mr. Spitzer has followed stock car racing, and has made Jeff Gordon, a Hendrick driver, his favorite. 
 On Sunday, there was no shortage of double takes as the governor, who served as a grand marshal, made his way around the grounds of the track set among the hills of the Finger Lakes region.
 ''What's Nascar doing putting a Democrat on TV?'' Christine Merritt, a fan from the Syracuse area, wondered aloud as the governor glided past her.
 There were a blue sky and broiling sun overhead, and tens of thousands of fans gathering on bleachers and patches of grass. The governor kept in motion, watching the race for a time with two U.P.S. truck drivers, posing for pictures with a guy with a flaming skull tattoo and breaking down the complexities of Nascar's championship point system to listeners. 
 Few details seemed to elude Mr. Spitzer, who acknowledged that eyes often glaze over when he starts talking stock car racing on the cocktail party circuit. 
 Watkins Glen is an unusual track by Nascar Nextel Cup standards -- a 2.45 mile, 11-turn road course with 90 laps, instead of the more common oval track. 
 ''One thing that's true in a road course as opposed to an oval, passing is a lot harder here,'' the governor said. ''There are only two or three corners where you can easily pass people. Some of the big ovals like Daytona or, I guess, Michigan, where everybody has the same horsepower and they have restrictor plates on the carburetor, you're all going the same speed. You have 43 cars within a second of each other bunched up, and in the end you have huge crashes, and you never quite know who's going to win.''
 If nothing else, the day provided a respite from what has been a gloomy few weeks for the governor. Last month, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo released a report saying the governor's staff misused the State Police in an attempt to discredit Mr. Spitzer's chief political rival, Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader. 
 Even on Sunday, Mr. Spitzer could not fully escape. Watkins Glen is in the district of Senator George H. Winner Jr., a Republican who, as chairman of a Senate committee holding hearings into the conduct of the governor's staff, has emerged as one of the governor's antagonists. 
 The two men bumped into each other not long before the race and exchanged several minutes of polite banter -- comparing notes on local skiing sites and the smell of tar. Mr. Winner, in flip-flops and shorts, said he was, while not particularly a race fan, partial to Jeff Gordon. ''See,'' the governor said, ''we agree on something.''
 Many of the racegoers -- the ones from New York, at least -- said they knew about the governor's troubles, but they largely chalked them up to politics as usual. 
 ''I don't know all the ins and outs, but I don't think he was behind that,'' said Don Lauper, 53, of Corning, N.Y., one of many upstate Republicans who voted for the governor. 
 ''You put people in positions of trust, and sometimes those people don't make the right decisions,'' he added. ''Unfortunately, this looks like this was one of those times.''
 The governor's brother-in-law, Jim Wall, introduced him to the sport in the mid-1980s. A tennis player and runner, Mr. Spitzer did not expect to be drawn in, but the technology and strategy appealed to his analytical side.
 ''He showed me where they built the cars, and it was not what I expected, it was more like being in a hospital operating room, in terms of the meticulous care they took on every piece, the design of the engine, the hand-craftsmanship that went into every piece of the car,'' Mr. Spitzer said. ''It was not what people would ordinarily have thought of, in terms of some guys standing around, looking at an engine and scratching their heads.''
 Mr. Wall, the top engineer in the engine division at Hendrick, said the governor is ''a very competitive person, and he enjoys the competitive nature of this sport.'' 
 And Mr. Spitzer likes speed, and noise, and crashes. His favorite event is at Bristol Motor Speedway in Tennessee, known for its spectacular bang-ups.
 ''Bristol is arguably the best race to watch,'' the governor said to a reporter. ''This is a short circuit, Saturday night, more crashes, more spins, slower speeds because it's a shorter track, but it's just complete mayhem.''
 Sunday seemed to have all the ingredients for racing fans -- the thundering flyover by F-16s beforehand; a shoving match between two drivers after a wreck; Dale Earnhardt Jr. blowing out his engine; and then the intense competition between Jeff Gordon and the swaggering Tony Stewart of Joe Gibbs Racing.
 ''My wife's from Concord, N.C., a town that most of you probably know,'' the governor told the drivers before the race. ''Her brother's worked for Hendrick Motorsports for going on 25 years now, and I don't want you to think that we're going to rig anything in favor of Hendrick because of that, but we did tow a couple cars a few minutes ago.''
 ''The No. 20 car,'' he added, ''can be recovered at the State Police pound down the road.''
 That would be Tony Stewart's car. The drivers laughed, and not long afterward, when they were introduced one by one, Mr. Stewart leaned over and asked Mr. Spitzer what officer he needed to ask to pick up his car. 
 Early in the race, Mr. Stewart fell back but then fought his way back into the top 10. 
 ''My prediction, by the end of the race, it's Tony Stewart and Jeff,'' the governor said, more than an hour before the end.
 With just a few minutes to go, Mr. Spitzer's prediction proved right. Mr. Stewart was gaining but Mr. Gordon, Mr. Spitzer's favorite, seemed poised for victory. 
 And then he suddenly spun out, inexplicably.
 ''It's all over,'' Mr. Spitzer said, adding with a smile, ''We should have impounded Tony's car.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As a grand marshal of the Nascar stock car race Sunday in Watkins Glen, Gov. Eliot Spitzer rode in the pace car for the start, then spent the day chatting about Nextel Cup points and road tar
Governor Spitzer and his wife, Silda, at the race. His favorite, Jeff Gordon, drives for the team where her brother, Jim Wall, is a top engineer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
 After the race, Gov. Eliot Spitzer was on the podium with the winning driver, Tony Stewart, right, of Joe Gibbs Racing. (Photograph by NARAYAN MAHON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); NASCAR RACING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); MEN (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SPORTS FANS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TRUCK DRIVERS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); RELIGION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (54%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (94%); JEFF GORDON (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (53%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



246 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Turkish Presidential Pick Sets Up Clash, Once Again

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and SEBNEM ARSU. 
Sebnem Arsu reported from Istanbul, and Sabrina Tavernise from Amman, Jordan.

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Aug. 14 

 BODY:
Turkey's governing party has chosen Abdullah Gul, an economist and a practicing Muslim, as its candidate for president, officials said Monday, a move that places the party and its pious followers on a collision course with Turkey's secular elite. 
 The nomination of Mr. Gul, 56, a moderate politician who has pressed for his country's entry into the European Union, was announced by officials of the ruling Justice and Development Party late on Monday. His confirmation, which is expected in several rounds of parliamentary voting this month, is likely to change the country's course, with an emerging Islamic middle class overtaking the secular elite who have controlled the Turkish state since its beginning in 1923. 
 The country's secular establishment blocked Mr. Gul's candidacy for the same job this spring, saying that he was too religious to take Turkey's highest secular post. The move precipitated early elections last month. 
 Turkey is a member of NATO and a strong American ally, so its stability is important in a troubled region. While its citizens are overwhelmingly Muslim, it is a democracy that is staunchly secular, and its president is at the very heart of that system, controlling appointments of judges, and presiding as commander in chief over the military.
 Voting begins next Monday. In that round, Mr. Gul would need 367 votes, two-thirds of the 550-member Parliament, to win approval. If he is not confirmed in two rounds, he will probably win in a third round on Aug. 28, in which, under Turkish law, just 267 votes are needed. His party has 341 seats. 
 The party is expected to discuss the nomination with other political parties on Tuesday. 
 ''Their insistence on Gul's nomination, after all of the crisis it caused, shows how determined they are to convert the modern secular Turkish state into a religion-based administration,'' said Onur Oymen, deputy chairman of the secular Republican People's Party, in a telephone interview. ''This is not acceptable.'' 
 Secular Turks say the rank and file of Mr. Gul's party is settling deeply into the Turkish bureaucracy, bringing a religious tinge to the state. The party's supporters, meanwhile, say it has done more than secular parties to pull Turkey closer to Europe and to modernize the state. 
 The election last month resulted in a landslide victory for Mr. Gul's party, which took nearly 50 percent of the vote, the highest proportion in Turkey since the 1960s, and the party appears to have taken that outcome as a mandate to push Mr. Gul for a second time. 
 But many secular Turks fear for the future of their country if the governing party controls the presidency as well as the prime minister's post and the speaker of Parliament. 
 In a conciliatory acceptance speech after the election, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan indicated he would take secular Turks into account when forming the government. But Mr. Gul's candidacy did not seem to be something the governing party was willing to compromise on. 
 ''Compromise is one thing, and giving in is another,'' said Egemen Bagis, a member of Parliament from the governing party. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 22, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the governing party of Turkey's presidential nomination of Abdullah Gul, an economist and practicing Muslim, misstated the number of votes he would need to win confirmation in the 500-seat Parliament if he failed in the first two rounds of voting, when a two-thirds majority, or 367 votes, is required. In a third round, he would need 276 votes, not 267.
A correction in this space on Friday, to an article on Aug. 14 about the number of votes in Parliament the governing party in Turkey would need to win confirmation for its presidential nominee, Abdullah Gul, if he failed in the first two rounds of voting, misstated the total number of seats in the Parliament. If there were a third round, Mr. Gul would indeed need 276 votes, not 267 as originally reported, but the number of seats in Parliament is 550, not 500.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Turkey's secular establishment blocked Abdullah Gul's candidacy this spring. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UMIT BEKTAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH GUL (90%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) TURKEY (98%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2007



247 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2007

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2755 words

HEADLINE: Carrot Sticks or French Fries?

BYLINE: CATHERINE HUTCHINGS and BRIDGET ANDERSON


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students investigate the influence of fast food brand names on food choices and analyze the factors that contribute to branding preferences. Then they write an opinion essay on the corporate responsibility to influence food choices. 

 BODY:
Overview: In this lesson, students investigate the influence of fast food brand names on food choices and analyze the factors that contribute to branding preferences. Then they write an opinion essay on the corporate responsibility to influence food choices.
Author(s):
Catherine Hutchings, The New York Times Learning Network
Bridget Anderson, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 hour.
Objectives:
Students will:
1. Familiarize themselves with their psychological response to visual branding of fast food.
2. Learn about children's responses to fast food marketing by reading and discussing the article "If It Says McDonald's, Then It Must Be Good."
3. Design, analyze, graph and draw conclusions from survey questions to evaluate factors that influence branding choices.
4. Explain their opinions on corporate responsibility and make recommendations to McDonald's based on survey results and their individual philosophies.
Resources / Materials:
-pens/pencils
-markers
-classroom board or overhead projector
-student journals
-copies of the article "If It Says McDonald's, Then It Must Be Good," found online at (one per student)
-paper bags with McDonald's labels
-plain white paper bags of equal size to McDonald's bags
-popcorn (optional)
-piece of plain paper (one per student)
-graph paper (one per group)
Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up/Do-Now: Before class, place a McDonald's bag and a plain white bag of equal size on a table in the front of the room (stuff the empty bags to make them appear to contain food). and write the following prompt on the board: "Given these two options for a snack, which bag would you choose? Divide a sheet of paper into 10 pieces and write your answer (McDonald's bag, plain bag or doesn't matter) on all 10 pieces. Do not lose these as you will need them later. Then explain your choice in your journal."
Alternatively, place 25 McDonald's bags and 25 plain bags (all filled with popcorn and closed tightly) on the front table and have students pick a bag as they enter the room. Students would then write their choice on 10 slips of paper and their explanation in their journals.
Provide five minutes for students to respond to the prompt in their journals, then have students share their choices with the class. In a chart on the board, tally the numbers that chose the McDonald's bag, the number that chose the plain white bag, and the number that said it didn't matter. Discuss the results as a class, encouraging students to suggest explanations for the class results.
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "If It Says McDonald's, Then It Must Be Good" (), focusing on the following questions:
a. What did researchers learn about branding from the taste test?
b. What biases, if any, in the study procedure might have produced invalid results?
c. What are the strengths of the study that add validity to its findings?
d. What is meant by "statistically significant"? Why is this important in scientific tests?
e. In your opinion, does McDonald's have a responsibility to use the findings of this study to help market healthier foods to children?
f. What does the article imply about the way adults would respond in a similar taste test?
g. What factors other than the number of televisions in a household might affect how a person would respond in the taste test?
h. Do you agree or disagree that advertising can "undermine parents' ability to make healthy choices"? Why or why not?
i. What further questions for experimentation does the study lead you to ask?
3. Divide the class into 10 groups of two to three students and assign each group a number from 1 to 10. Have small groups revisit the survey results from the initial activity and compare them to the results of the taste test in the article.
Tell the groups that they are to design survey questions that could help them explain the class results of the warm-up activity. For example, the article cites a correlation between the number of television sets in a household and a child's preference for McDonald's. In order to recognize this correlation, researchers had to ask a question like "How many television sets do you have in your household?" Similarly, if a small group thinks there is a correlation between the number of times a student exercises during the week and his or her preference for McDonald's, a survey question could be stated as "How many hours a week do you spend exercising?" with graduated response choices. Have each group design three good questions and predict what they expect from the results of the questions.
In developing the survey, students should consider the following guidelines (copied into a handout):
-For data collection purposes, it is best not to ask "yes/no" or open-ended questions. Better types of survey questions, from a statistical accuracy standpoint, are those to which participants respond "always, sometimes, never," rank comments in the order of importance, or answer close-ended questions by circling responses.
-Determine how the survey will be analyzed. What mathematics will be necessary? (Younger students may simply focus on figuring percentages, while older students may also determine mean, mode and standard deviation, as well as determine validity and reliability of individual questions.)
-Consider asking the survey participants about any factors that might contribute to how they responded to the initial activity.
Additional suggestions for how to design and conduct a successful survey or poll can be found at http://www.ehow.com/how_16596_write-survey-questionnaire.html.
When small groups have completed their questions, bring students back together as a class. Have each small group choose and read aloud what they feel is their best survey question. Write each one on an overhead projector or on the board. If a question has already been listed, small groups should use their second or third choice to add to the class list. Number each question by group so that students know which question corresponds to which group.
Once all 10 questions have been written on the overhead or board, use the following instructions to have students answer the survey questions individually. This ensures that each group will be able to correlate the answers from the initial activity with their survey question.
-Take out the 10 slips of paper from the Warm-Up activity. These should have "McDonald's," "Plain," or "Doesn't Matter" on them. (NOTE: All 10 slips should list the same choice).
-Have students individually write the group number from the overhead and their answer to the corresponding survey question on the first slip. Remind students that the survey is to be kept completely anonymous, thus encouraging honesty.
-Have students continue answering one question per slip, being sure to write down the group number, until they have answered all 10 questions.
Collect survey slips from students and redistribute them so that each small group gets all the results from their one survey question. Explain that small groups are responsible for tallying and analyzing their results, making a graph that best represents their data in a visual way, and writing a one paragraph summary of their results.
After small groups have completed their graphs and paragraphs, have each group elect a spokesperson to present what they learned to the class, including explaining the graph and the group's conclusions.
Wrap up the activity after all groups have presented by discussing the following questions:
-Which results, if any, surprised you? How were they different from what you expected?
-Are you surprised by your own choices? What did you learn about which factors influence your choices as a consumer? What other brand labels are you affected by?
-What implications could these results have for individuals? For parents? For McDonald's executives?
4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Before the end of class, reread aloud the following quote by Dr. Thomas N. Robinson from Stanford aloud: "The best response the fast-food industry could make to this information is to alter their menus to include a majority of healthful foods instead of encouraging consumption of high-fat, high-calorie foods." For homework, students individually respond to the following prompt (copied down before leaving class) in an essay: "Do you agree or disagree with Dr. Robinson? Should McDonald's executives have a responsibility to market lower-fat, lower-calorie foods? Using the survey results, what recommendations would you suggest to McDonald's management?" Encourage students to consider how market pressures have already compelled fast food restaurants to offer salads, fresh fruit, vegetables and other healthy alternatives.
Further Questions for Discussion:
-Why is fat such a large proportion of the typical American diet?
-Who or what is responsible for the types of food we eat? Why?
-Other than McDonald's, what other branding labels do you think people strongly identify with? How does advertising influence our decisions?
Evaluation / Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on participation in the initial exercise, thoughtful participation and discussion of the article, design and analysis of survey questions and their opinion essay for homework.
Vocabulary:
statistically, significant, brand, unbranded, alter, consumption, nutrition, tremendous, advertising, undermine
Extension Activities:
1. Redesign the menu for McDonald's or another fast food restaurant to include more healthy food choices. How would you market these choices to make them appealing to both established customers and potential customers?
2. Analyze the nutritional content of a typical lunch at a fast food restaurant. Fat content and nutritional information for foods from top fast food chains can be found online at http://www.fatcalories.com/. Describe two ways that the meal could be changed to decrease the fat content and increase nutritional value. Make a poster comparing the two meals side by side and describing the health benefits of the one over the other.
3. Choose a fast food restaurant and analyze its current advertising campaign. Who is the intended audience? What is being pitched (health, price, taste, coolness, etc.)? Write a one page critique of the intention of the ad campaign.
4. Read the book "Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal" by Eric Schlosser or watch Morgan Spurlock's documentary "Super Size Me." Choose a favorite clip or section to share with the class and lead a discussion based on it.
5. Design a survey or taste test that answers a further question you have about advertising or fast food. For example, you might ask: Would children select a McDonald's label over another icon or picture they have never seen before? Would teenagers or adults have similar results in this study as 3-5 year-olds? Conduct your experiment, analyze the results and present your findings in a poster or presentation.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Economics
-Compare labels from brand-name foods and generic foods. What are the costs of each? How, if at all, are the ingredients different? How is the packaging different? Why do you think one is priced higher than the other? Make a poster comparing and contrasting the two labels. Write a paragraph describing which one you will choose and why.
-Maintain a food diary of the foods and approximate portion sizes that you consume over a school week (Monday through Friday). Also approximate the amount of money that each of those food servings cost. At the end of the five-day period, calculate the nutritional content of each serving, and compare this information to the amount of money spent on that serving. Do you notice certain trends? For example, do you spend more money on processed foods? Do the meals that are high in nutritional value also provide economic value, or are they more expensive? Summarize what you learned on the last page of the diary.
Fine Arts -- What types of branding have the greatest influence on you or your peers? Find examples of how these brands are advertised. Make a collage or poster that makes a statement about people's psychological response to visual brand labels.
Media Studies -- Find early advertisements for fast food establishments and create a presentation detailing how such ads have changed over the years. Who seems to be the target audience? What is the angle? What is the tone or mood?
Teaching with The Times - Read the Science section of The Times for one month, noting articles that deal with food and nutrition. At the end of the month, summarize how these articles reflect the health and eating habits of the nation. To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
background: The article "An `Eat More' Message For a Fattened America" and related lesson plan, found online at , examines nutritional habits and analyzes nutritional charts.
The article "A Dangerous Fat and Its Risky Alternatives" and related lesson plan, found online at , examines fat content in American diets.
The article "The Gorge-Yourself Environment" and related lesson plan, found online at , takes a close look at serving size.
Other Information on the Web:
The USDA's Food and Nutrition Information Center's Web site is http://www.fnic.nal.usda.gov/.
Nutritional information for foods from top fast food chains can be found online at http://www.fatcalories.com/.
Fast food facts can be found online at http://www.foodfacts.info/.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8
Health Standard 2- Knows environmental and external factors that affect individual and community health. Benchmarks: Knows cultural beliefs, socioeconomic considerations and other environmental factors within a community that influence the health of its members; understands how various messages from the media, technology and other sources impact health practices; understands how peer relationships affect health.
Science Standard 14- Understands the nature of scientific knowledge. Benchmarks: Knows that all scientific ideas are tentative and subject to change and improvement in principle, but for most core ideas in science, there is much experimental and observational confirmation; understands that questioning, response to criticism and open communication are integral to the process of science.
Science Standard 15- Understands the nature of scientific inquiry. Benchmarks: Knows that there is no fixed procedure called "the scientific method," but that investigations involve systematic observations, carefully collected, relevant evidence, logical reasoning and some imagination in developing hypotheses and explanations; knows that scientific inquiry includes evaluating results of scientific investigations, experiments, observations, theoretical and mathematical models and explanations proposed by other scientists; knows possible outcomes of scientific investigations.
Science Standard 16- Understands the scientific enterprise. Benchmarks: Understands ethics associated with scientific study; knows that throughout history, many scientific innovators have had difficulty breaking through accepted ideas of their time to read conclusions that are now considered to be common knowledge; knows ways in which science and society influence one another.
Grades 9-12
Health Standard 2- Knows environmental and external factors that affect individual and community health. Benchmark: Knows how the health of individuals can be influenced by the community.
Science Standard 14- Understands the nature of scientific knowledge. Benchmarks: Knows that scientific explanations must meet certain criteria to be considered valid; understands how scientific knowledge changes and accumulates over time.
Science Standard 15- Understands the nature of scientific inquiry. Benchmarks: Knows that conceptual principles and knowledge guide scientific inquiries- historical and current scientific knowledge influence the design and interpretation of investigations and the evaluation of proposed explanations made by other scientists; knows that scientists conduct investigations for a variety of reasons.
Science Standard 16- Understands the scientific enterprise. Benchmarks: Understands the ethical traditions associated with the scientific enterprise and that scientists who violate those traditions are censored by their peers; knows that science and technology are essential social enterprises, but alone they can only indicate what can happen, not what should happen; knows that creativity, imagination and a good knowledge base are all required in the work of science and engineering.

        
If It Says McDonald?s, Then It Must Be Good

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (79%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); WRITERS (72%) Media Studies; Science; The Influence of the Mass Media; The Scientific Method

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%); LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011



248 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 841 words

 BODY:
2 BIG RECALLS BY MATTEL Mattel, the world's largest toy company, said it was recalling 436,000 Chinese-made toy cars because they are covered with lead paint, and 18.2 million other toys because their small magnets could harm children if swallowed. The magnetized toys were also made in China, but they followed a Mattel design specification. 
 Certain vinyl baby bibs, made in China and sold at Toys ''R'' Us stores, appear to be contaminated with lead. [C1.] 
 The few manufacturers of American-made toys that have struggled against cheaper Chinese imports can now boast of one competitive advantage: You can count on them to be lead-free. [C1.] 
 Nokia said that 46 million of its cellphones contained defective batteries made in China that could overheat and dislodge. [C4.] 
 2 RETAILERS SEE BUMPS AHEADWal-Mart and Home Depot reported disappointing earnings for the second quarter and predicted an even bumpier year ahead because of higher energy costs and a sagging housing market. Economists said the sluggish performance of the chains -- Wal-Mart missed its profit forecast and Home Depot's earnings dropped -- could signal broader troubles in the economy. ''Many customers are running out of money at the end of the month,'' said H. Lee Scott Jr., above, the chief executive of Wal-Mart. [C1.] 
 CRISIS HITS COMMERCIAL NOTES Turmoil in the subprime mortgage market spread to commercial paper, a type of short-term security held by money market mutual funds. Standard & Poor's warned that it might downgrade several issuers of commercial paper that was backed by residential mortgages. [C1.] 
 Trading was halted in shares of the lender Thornburg Mortgage Asset after they plunged 47 percent. [C2.] 
 LITTLE PRESSURE TO CUT RATES Two economic reports -- about a jump in energy prices last month, and a narrowing of the trade deficit in June -- provide little urgency to the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates soon. [C3.] 
 ESSENTIAL EQUIPMENT The modern mobile phone -- equipped with camera, Internet access and more -- has become an essential accessory for music fans attending concerts. The phones can be a ticket to everything from free ring tones to V.I.P. treatment. [E1.] 
 PROFIT FROM A NONPROFIT TIAA-CREF, the financial services company, is beginning a marketing campaign that plays up its status as a nonprofit organization. ''Think .org-onimically,'' the headline of a print ad urges. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C5.] 
 GLOOMY FORECAST AT UBS
 Europe's largest bank, UBS, painted the grimmest picture to date for future earnings in light of recent market jitters, raising concerns about the sustainability of profit growth in the investment banking sector. European banks have been hurt this month by the mortgage lending fallout in the United States. Earnings at investment banks, which have enjoyed record returns, may be affected as investors shun risk. [C3.] 
 FLOCKING TO BUY VMWARE Shares of VMware, the fast-growing Silicon Valley software maker, jumped 76 percent in their first day of trading, and raised about $1.1 billion, making it the largest I.P.O. by a technology company since Google's in 2004. [C3.] 
 BRINGING EMPLOYERS TO TABLE Seven labor unions asked the National Labor Relations Board to order employers to bargain with unions, even when the unions represent only a minority of employees. [A14.] 
 MARKETS' SLIDE CONTINUES Wall Street pulled back sharply, and the Dow Jones industrial average skidded more than 200 points, as investors worried about fundamental economic problems as well as the continuing fallout from credit market problems. [C10.]
 EUROPEAN RATE RISE STILL ON The European Central Bank declared that recent financial market turmoil was largely over, a sign that the bank would probably proceed with a plan to increase borrowing costs in early September to curb inflation caused by a rising economy. [C3.] 
 HOME ON THE KITCHEN RANGE
 Demand for buffalo meat has risen significantly over the last five years, thanks to praise from chefs, nutritionists and environmentalists. At last, steak without guilt. [F1.] 
 BEING SMALL, GOING GREEN Ten very small businesses on or near U Street in Washington have joined together to buy wind power energy credits, a sign that green energy is not just for big businesses. [C6.] 
 FILLING GAPS IN SOUTH NORWALK A slow, stumbling effort to revitalize the once-industrial downtown of South Norwalk, Conn., may be about to get a critical push, thanks to a million-square-foot mixed-use complex proposed by a longstanding Norwalk investor. [C7.] 
 support for sale of ceridian The hedge fund manager William A. Ackman, the general partner at Pershing Square Capital Management, dropped his opposition to the sale of the Ceridian Corporation, the payroll processor, after tangling with the company for months. [C5.] 
 EX-EXECUTIVE BEGINS JAIL TIMESanjay Kumar, the former chief executive of Computer Associates, now known as CA, began serving a 12-year prison term for his role in a $2.2 billion accounting fraud at the company. [C5.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES (93%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (91%); LEAD (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PAINTS & COATINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEAD PAINT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (86%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (64%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (64%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); MUSIC (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: MATTEL INC (95%); TSMT INC (53%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (51%)

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (95%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (95%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (53%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



249 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Washington's Small Businesses Tap Into Green Power

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With its decidedly '50s-era menu -- chili, cheese fries, shakes and half-smoke sausages, a distinctive regional specialty -- Ben's Chili Bowl, a restaurant near the Howard University campus, might not seem a likely business to be at the vanguard of Washington's ''green power'' movement.
 But this summer, the owners of Ben's Chili Bowl joined with nine other small, independent and mostly food-related businesses on or near U Street to buy wind power energy credits.
 ''We see this as part of being involved in what is good for the neighborhood, what's good for the city,'' said Nizam Ali, whose parents, Ben and Virginia Ali, opened their chili place in 1958. ''It's a good idea that helps the environment and, it turns out, makes economic sense for all of us.'' 
 Nationally, there is a boom in wind power as companies and institutions clamor for ways to go green. Most have been large electric power customers like universities, hospitals, hotels, government agencies or owners of large office buildings. But the initiative by these very small businesses in Washington illustrates that green energy is not just for the major players. 
 ''Individually, these businesses probably wouldn't have been able to afford to switch to wind power, but buying as a group, it works,'' said Gary Skulnik, co-founder of Clean Currents, a two-year-old renewable power brokerage and consulting firm that arranged the deal between the U Street businesses and their electricity provider. 
 Mr. Skulnik says that with its agreement, the U Street consortium is buying nearly two million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy a year. He maintains that in terms of the carbon dioxide replaced, this use of alternative energy will have the same impact as taking 185 motor vehicles off the road for a year. 
 The deal that the U Street businesses made was with Washington Gas Energy Services Inc., an alternative supplier in the Washington area, which buys energy from wind farms in West Virginia, Pennsylvania and other mid-Atlantic states. The owners of the utility lines in the area, Pepco, the main electricity company in the Washington area, will guarantee the service, and the businesses will continue to be billed through Pepco.
 Despite their name, the ''wind certificates'' that the U Street merchants bought do not guarantee that their power comes from wind farms that generate electricity. The more formal name is ''renewable energy certificates,'' or RECs, and they cover a combination of renewable energy sources including wind, solar and geothermal power.
 Through the certificates, Washington Gas Energy Services will get credit for the amount of electricity it buys that does not come from plants that burn coal, oil or natural gas under a new District of Columbia law requiring utilities to increase their use of renewable energy. 
 There is growing evidence, scientists and environmental advocates say, that the carbon dioxide emitted in the production of electricity by fossil-fuel power plants has contributed to global warming. 
 Along with Ben's Chili Bowl, the other businesses in the wind power consortium are Boundless Yoga, CakeLove, Love Cafe, Rumberos restaurant, Coppi's Organic restaurant, Busboys & Poets, the Luna Grill and Diner, the Diner and Tryst, which is a coffee house and restaurant. Their transition from conventional power to wind has been seamless and required no equipment or changes in the way they do business. 
 With their three-year agreement, the businesses expect to save a total of about $21,000 annually, or an average of about 9 percent each. Mr. Skulnik's company earns a 1 percent commission on the total electric bills; the commission is paid by the power provider. 
 The more energy a business uses, the greater the potential savings. Busboys & Poets, for example, a 4,000-square-foot restaurant that serves up jazz and free Wi-Fi from 8 a.m. until midnight, will probably save more than CakeLove, a bakery that operates in a little less than 1,000 square feet of space. 
 Kim Weeks, the owner of Boundless Yoga, is the only member of the group who will pay higher electric bills because of her participation. 
 ''In my industry, it is important that we be a leader in sustainability of the environment,'' said Ms. Weeks, whose yoga studio occupies about 2,000 square feet on two levels. ''We need to show our customers that we are doing what we can to choose to go green, even if it's more expensive.'' Ms. Weeks also said that compared with rent and other expenses, the cost of electricity is marginal for her. 
 Businesses like Boundless Yoga represent the new face of U Street. Known before World War II as Washington's Black Broadway, the street was an entertainment and shopping area, where artists like Duke Ellington and Ella Fitzgerald performed. U Street started to lose its luster in the 1960s, and its decline was hastened by rioting there after the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Some businesses that remained struggled until the late 1990s, when new residential development led to a turnaround. 
 Now some of the businesses that helped to spark the revival of the strip are feeling the pressure of its success. Most of them are tenants, not owners of their spaces. As the neighborhood property values have risen, so have some rents.
 Last year, the Latino Economic Development Corporation formed a coalition of small independent businesses, including all of those on U Street that are using wind power, to help them handle the pressures of rising costs. 
 Since then, Ayari de la Rosa, business program manager of the nonprofit group, has negotiated group rates for insurance, advertising and marketing for alliance members. 
 Ms. de la Rosa was the matchmaker between the U Street businesses and Clean Currents. ''In this city, it is getting harder and harder for small businesses to stay in areas like U Street,'' she said.
 Ms. de la Rosa met Mr. Skulnik when she was searching for additional ways for the alliance members to share costs. ''We started working on ways for these businesses to save money by combining economically and environmentally sustainable business practices,'' she said. 
 Mr. Skulnik said he expected his company, based in Rockville, Md., to complete a wind power deal soon for a second group of small businesses in Washington. 
 He believes the demand for green energy from businesses of all sizes and types can only grow as jurisdictions demand that power companies provide alternatives to fossil-fuel energy. 
 The District of Columbia and 23 states have mandates or stated goals that push utilities toward renewable energy. Last year, voters in Washington approved a renewable energy standard for the city requiring that electric power providers gradually increase the amount of renewable energy they generate. The new law says the percentage must be 11 percent by 2022.
 ''People are beginning to make the connection between our dependence on fossil fuel and the cost of energy and global warming,'' said Mr. Skulnik, who started Clean Currents after working for nearly a decade in the nonprofit world as an advocate for the environment. ''They are also learning that they do have a choice as to who provides their electric power and the sources of that power.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gary Skulnik of Clean Currents, a renewable power brokerage firm.
 Top, from left, Nizam Ali of Ben's Chili Bowl, Carlos Amaya of Coppi's Organic, Andy Shallal of Busboys & Poets and Kim Weeks of Boundless Yoga. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (68%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON GAS ENERGY SERVICES (52%); PEPCO HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: POM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



250 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: China, Unregulated

 BODY:
''That's the price of doing business,'' is the too-often-heard excuse from American companies that choose to overlook China's loose business ethics and tight, verging on strangling, political controls.
 The high cost of such enabling was on display, once again, yesterday when Mattel announced that it is recalling millions of Chinese-made toys contaminated with lead paint or containing dangerously easy to swallow magnets. And that follows discoveries of Chinese toothpaste laced with industrial solvents and drug-contaminated seafood. 
 Concerned parents can simply stop buying toys made in China, although that could mean refusing to buy toys altogether given China's dominance of the worldwide toy industry. And it could still come to that. 
 It is definitely not in America's interest -- economic, political or strategic -- to erect a barricade against Chinese imports, which could spark a mutually destructive trade war. American businesses and the Bush administration must send a clear message to Beijing that it has to clean up its act or its export-led boom will falter. 
 What China needs is an effective and transparent regulatory system to enforce product safety standards. The United States and other countries can help with technical advice and warnings about what would happen if Beijing refuses to take it. But the dangers are too immediate to wait.
 Right now it is the clear responsibility of companies that import Chinese products to guarantee their safety, and American regulators have to ensure they do it adequately. Neither is doing the job right now. 
 Mattel -- this is its second major recall in a month of Chinese-made toys -- says it imposes stringent rules on its Chinese suppliers, including what kind of paint they can use, and says it does random inspections of suppliers' facilities. But in China's cutthroat environment, in which the cheapest producer always gets the contract, these rules and spot checks are clearly not enough.
 Companies like Mattel may need to station their own full-time inspectors with their Chinese suppliers -- and make clear that they'll take their business elsewhere if those suppliers refuse to go along. 
 American regulators, who are constantly playing catch-up, must also do a lot more to ensure the safety of Chinese-made goods, sending their own personnel to China to perform inspections of factories and test goods before they are shipped. 
 Unfortunately, the Bush administration, which disdains America's regulatory system, has cut personnel and squeezed budgets at both the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, impairing their ability to monitor the quality of products made in China or, indeed, anywhere else. 
 At a time of ever-rising imports, the F.D.A. has lost hundreds of food scientists and field inspectors. And the White House is proposing cutting the agency's budget next year, in real terms. The C.P.S.C., which sets safety standards for toys and many other consumer products, must inspect tens of billions of dollars worth of goods sold every year with only about 100 field investigators and compliance personnel. And it has suffered a 10 percent cut in its budget in the last two years.
 There are some signs that China's government may finally be getting the message. And for the sake of its own children, as well as America's, China must establish an effective regulatory system and guarantee the safety of its own products. But American consumers can't wait for that to happen. American businesses and American regulators have to provide the first line of defense.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS ETHICS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ETHICS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); PRODUCT RECALLS (76%); LEAD (76%); PAINTS & COATINGS (76%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); LEAD PAINT (71%); TRADE DISPUTES (68%); QUALITY CONTROL (66%); BUDGET CUTS (63%); SOLVENTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



251 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Producer Prices and Trade Data Give Fed Little Reason to Cut Rates

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Two economic reports released yesterday suggested that the Federal Reserve was facing little urgency to lower interest rates soon.
 A Labor Department survey found that a jump in energy prices last month caused inflation at the producer level to rise, despite falling food prices and small price increases for many other goods.
 And a report from the Commerce Department showed that the trade deficit continued to narrow in June, which should help support economic growth this year even as other parts of the American economy, like the housing market, struggle. 
 The combination of stubborn inflation and resurgent growth reinforces the Fed's position that rising prices -- and not the recent upheaval in credit markets and on Wall Street -- remain the most serious threat to the health of the economy.
 ''It is clearly not the environment for the Fed to reduce borrowing costs,'' said Richard Yamarone, director of economic research for Argus Research. ''Look at the economic facts. We have a low unemployment rate; we have solid consumer spending; we have torrid export activity; we have increased manufacturing activity. And these clearly suggest that the economy is in no need of stimulus.''
 The trade deficit report caused many economists to raise their economic forecasts for this year. Some revised their estimates for growth in the second quarter, which the government reported at 3.4 percent, to more than 4 percent. 
 Still, trade can support growth only so much. If American consumers start to reduce their spending, economists said, a downturn becomes much more likely. Those fears spread yesterday on Wall Street, where stocks declined sharply after Wal-Mart and Home Depot warned of slowing sales.
 The trade deficit report said that the gap between what Americans import and export was $58.1 billion in June, seasonally adjusted, compared with $59.2 billion in May.
 While the trade imbalance is still huge, the June numbers showed that the overall pattern of trade was becoming less uneven as imports grew at a slower rate ($192.7 billion in June versus $191.7 billion in May) and exports climbed ($134.5 billion versus $132.6 billion). The government also said the trade deficit in May was actually about $1 billion smaller than was first reported last month. 
 From January through June, exports rose 11 percent compared with the period a year earlier, as companies overseas purchased tens of billions of dollars worth of goods like industrial machinery, metals, chemicals and semiconductors. 
 As the declining housing market holds the economy back at least until the end of the year, economists expect trade to pick up some of the slack. ''It's a pressure release,'' said Stephen Stanley, chief economist for RBS Greenwich Capital. ''It's one place where we're going to make up for the weakness we've seen in the housing sector.'' 
 But the trade report revealed some soft spots in the American economy. Imports of consumer goods fell 2 percent in June, a potential sign of slowing consumer demand. ''That's lower domestic demand growth, and that's not encouraging as far as the Fed is concerned,'' said Paul Ashworth, senior United States economist for Capital Economics.
 The Labor Department said yesterday that the Producer Price Index -- the government's calculation of the prices businesses charge one another -- rose 0.6 percent in July after dropping 0.2 percent in June. A separate measure of prices that excludes food and energy prices, which are subject to large and volatile swings, registered a more benign 0.1 percent increase last month. It rose 0.3 percent in June.
 The producer price numbers were in line with the big-picture trend of inflation in recent months and suggested that while price increases on the whole are getting more modest, they are still prone to bouncing around unpredictably. Over all, producer prices rose 4 percent from July 2006 to July 2007, the Labor Department said, and 2.3 percent excluding food and energy.
 The cost of gasoline was up 3.2 percent last month after falling 3.9 percent the month before. Other energy prices also edged up. The cost of electricity rose 1.8 percent, and the cost of natural gas for heating was up 2.7 percent.
 When the Fed voted last week to leave its benchmark short-term interest rate unchanged, it said that above all else, it was concerned that inflation would not ease in the months ahead. The Fed's statement acknowledged the recent losses in the stock market and said that the risk of an economic downturn had increased somewhat. But it nevertheless indicated that central bankers would consider lowering interest rates only if the economic outlook worsened further in the weeks and months ahead.
 ''The Fed is not going to ease just in response to the financial market turmoil,'' said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist with Bank of America. Because it is unclear whether the markets' troubles are the beginning of a larger economic problem, it is impossible to predict what the Fed might do a month from now, Mr. Levy added. ''Let's just stay tuned.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Boeing plane under construction in Everett, Wash. American industrial goods have led the gains in exports that have narrowed the trade gap in recent months. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CHEMICALS TRADE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); FOOD PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



252 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Hopes for Revving Up Retail in South Norwalk

BYLINE: By SANA SIWOLOP

DATELINE: NORWALK, Conn. 

 BODY:
Urban revitalization usually takes years, if not decades, and so far efforts in South Norwalk have taken the longer path.
 A 25-year revival effort has slowly introduced condominiums, stylish restaurants and entertainment options into the decrepit former industrial downtown of South Norwalk, a section of this city that generally is situated south of Interstate 95. 
 The revival has created a business district along Washington, Water and Main Streets. A centerpiece is the Maritime Aquarium, one of Connecticut's top tourist draws. This area is often referred to as SoNo. 
 But so far, South Norwalk has managed to draw only a limited number of the kind of daytime retailers and services that local real estate executives say are needed to turn an entertainment district into a viable around-the-clock community. Some executives say the main demand for retail space along Washington Street is from potential restaurant tenants.
 National retailers, on the other hand, have been scarce, with the exception of recent entrants like a Washington Mutual bank and an American Apparel store. One problem, national retailers say, is that retail slots in the area tend to be small. 
 But construction may begin as soon as this winter on a major piece of redevelopment that may help rectify this shortcoming. 
 That project is District 95/7, a million-square-foot mixed-use complex. It would be built by a longstanding Norwalk investor, Spinnaker Real Estate Partners, on 12 vacant acres next to the central business district of South Norwalk, where Interstate 95 and Route 7 intersect. Plans for District 95/7 call for a hotel, offices and housing, as well as 125,000 square feet of retail space. 
 Another major project is planned in the area by a new investor in South Norwalk, Tarragon Development, an arm of the Tarragon Corporation of New York City. In April, the company bought the Norwalk Company compressor factory building, at 20 North Water Street, opposite the aquarium.
 Tarragon plans to retain the factory's historical facade and reconfigure the site into a five-story, 280,000-square-foot mixed-use complex. Plans call for 133 housing units, a 240-car parking area hidden from street view, an interior public plaza that will help connect Water Street to Washington Street, and 27,000 square feet of street-level retail space. 
 ''From a planning standpoint, this building is a critical connection between SoNo and the aquarium,'' said John L. Burritt Jr., assistant director of the Norwalk Redevelopment Agency. 
 William S. Friedman, the chief executive of Tarragon, likened the development to ''filling in a tooth that's missing in a smile,'' because it will act as the long-awaited bridge between the aquarium area and Washington Street. 
 Washington, in turn, runs into Main Street, where many buildings, like the venerable Avrick furniture store, are either changing ownership or changing their tenant lineup. There are a number of properties for lease. 
 Steven Christofor, a Norwalk native who owns a residential and commercial real estate brokerage firm on North Main, says the area is ripe for retailers who sell more high-end products than are now offered. ''The audience is here and demanding it,'' he said. ''I'm reaching out to retailers to let them know that we're here.'' 
 Parking is a sore point, however. Richard Erlanger, the owner of the Saga gallery and retail shop at 81 Washington, says his area could use three times the parking it has, and that even the nearby seven-floor Maritime Garage, which opened in 2004, has not alleviated a capacity problem.
 City officials, as well as those at Spinnaker, which oversaw development of the garage, say it is running at about 75 percent capacity. One problem, they say, may be that too many visitors expect the suburban convenience of not having to walk more than a few dozen feet for parking. 
 Still, some retailers are taking chances on South Main Street, a part of South Norwalk they avoided just a few years ago.
 While the city of Norwalk is grappling with plans for how to best revive the area around the South Norwalk train station, a large new police building on the street has helped draw a small collection of specialty retailers to the part that is closer to Washington Street. These include Chocopologie, a popular 6,000-square-foot chocolate factory and cafe; Studio Snaidero SoNo, a high-end kitchen design store that is a sister store to one in Greenwich; and Ebhome, an eclectic home furnishings store that follows one in Mount Kisco, N.Y. 
 Another recent investor in South Norwalk, Madison Marquette, a Washington real estate investment and development company, said it sees the area as a shopping alternative to nearby cities like Greenwich and Westport. 
 Jay Lask, managing director for property investments at Madison Marquette, said his company acquired 90,000 square feet of commercial space along Washington and South Main Streets in 2004 as part of a larger portfolio acquired from Starwood Urban. At first, the company was more interested in other pieces of the portfolio, like those in Manhattan's meatpacking district, he said.
 Still, the company was pleasantly surprised by the performance of its properties in South Norwalk. Mr. Lask estimated that in the last two years, retail rents along Washington Street and North Main, where Madison Marquette does not own property, have risen 30 percent.
 ''We never rated it that highly,'' he said, ''but once we got into it, we realized that Norwalk was the hidden jewel.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, an architect's drawing of a proposed five-story, 280,000-square-foot mixed-use complex that would retain an old factory's historical facade. Right, vacant stores on South Main Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT, BEINFIELD ARCHITECTURE PC
 RIGHT, DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); FURNITURE STORES (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%)

COMPANY: TARRAGON CORP (82%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); NORWALK CO INC (64%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (82%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (82%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (82%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (82%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (82%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS333912 AIR & GAS COMPRESSOR MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3563 AIR & GAS COMPRESSORS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



253 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: India's Internal Partition

BYLINE: By RAMACHANDRA GUHA. 
Ramachandra Guha is the author of ''India After Gandhi: The History of the World's Largest Democracy.''

DATELINE: Bangalore, India 

 BODY:
 IN the last months of 1990, a property dispute sparked a series of bloody riots across India. The right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party sought to ''reclaim'' for Hindus the birthplace of the legendary god-king Ram, in the small northern town of Ayodhya. That meant demolishing the mosque that had been built there in the 16th century and replacing it with a spanking new temple.
 Starting in September, the militant Bharatiya Janata leader Lal Krishna Advani journeyed for five weeks between Somnath and Ayodhya, making fiery speeches at towns and villages en route, denouncing the Indian government for ''appeasing'' the Muslims. In many places Mr. Advani visited, attacks on Muslims followed. 
 In New Delhi, where I then lived, Mr. Advani's march represented a grave threat to the inclusive, plural, secular and democratic idea of India. My boyhood hero had been Jawaharlal Nehru, India's first and arguably greatest prime minister. 
 When India and Pakistan came into existence in 1947, exactly 60 years ago, Mr. Nehru insisted that India would not be a ''Hindu Pakistan.'' Three months after the partition, he wrote to the chief provincial ministers about the Muslim minority: ''whatever the provocation from Pakistan and whatever the indignities and horrors inflicted on non-Muslims there, we have got to deal with this minority in a civilized manner. We must give them security and the rights of citizens in a democratic state. If we fail to do so, we shall have a festering sore which will eventually poison the whole body politic and probably destroy it.''
 The Bharatiya Janata Party's idea of India was the opposite. Their ideologues treated Muslims as potential fifth columnists. ''Pakistan ya Kabristan!'' (to Pakistan or the graveyard) they cried during the riots. Nonetheless, many million Muslims stayed in India; after the formation of an independent Bangladesh, in 1971, India had even more Muslim citizens than Pakistan.
 Yet among my close friends in India there was not a single Muslim. The novelist Mukul Kesavan, a contemporary, has written that in his school in Delhi he never came across a Muslim name: ''The only place you were sure of meeting Muslims was the movies.'' Some of the finest actors, singers, composers and directors in Bombay's film industry were Muslims. But in law, medicine, business and the upper echelons of public service, Hindus dominated. There were sprinklings of Christians and Sikhs, but very few Muslims.
 As it happened, my first Muslim friend was a Pakistani I met in America. In the mid-1980s, the economist Tariq Banuri and I, both teaching at East Coast universities, were part of a colloquium on third-world development. Our bond was partly intellectual and partly linguistic, for we had grown up speaking Hindustani, that wonderful hybrid of Hindi and Urdu that was once the lingua franca of much of the Indian subcontinent. My hometown, Dehradun, and Tariq's, Peshawar, lay at opposite ends of what was once a common cultural zone, fractured by the partition.
 After I returned to India, and Tariq to Pakistan, in 1987, the antipathy between our countries meant I could not visit him. The phone lines were blocked, and the Internet had not been developed. News that trickled in from mutual friends was episodic and desultory; inevitably, we lost touch. 
 In the winter of 1990, Tariq began appearing in my dreams. I was always on the verge of visiting him in Islamabad, only to be thwarted by hostile immigration officials, barbed-wire fences, massed soldiers or canceled flights. That I dreamt of my friend at a time when my fellow Hindus were mounting frequent attacks on Muslims was surely not accidental.
 Back in Delhi, I also came to understand (though not support) why so many Indians had favored building a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Once a center of Islamic civilization, later the center of a white man's Raj, after 1947 Delhi had become a city of the Hindu and Sikh victims of partition. These Punjabi migrants had lost homes and businesses in that bloody summer of 1947. Starting from scratch, they had come to dominate Delhi's commerce and social life. Yet they remained insecure; who knew when catastrophe might come again? And so they hoarded diamonds and maintained Swiss bank accounts.
 They also cheated their tenants. In six years in Delhi, my wife and I had four landlords, all refugees from the Pakistani part of Punjab. All four hooked their appliances to our electricity meter, and all kept our deposits when we left.
 In 1995, I finally got to visit Pakistan. I saw Tariq in Islamabad and then proceeded to Lahore, illegally, since my visa was for one city only. I met one of the last seven Hindu families in Lahore and visited the tomb of the Sikh warrior-king Ranjit Singh.
 Then I went across to the majestic Badshahi Mosque, built by the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. It was Friday evening, and a large crowd of worshipers was coming out after the weekly prayers. Walking against the flow, I had to jostle my way through. 
 As I bumped into one worshiper, I was seized by panic. In one pocket of my kurta lay my wallet; in the other, an exquisite little statue of the Hindu god Ganesh, dancing. I am not a believer, but this was my mascot, a gift from my sister, carried whenever I was separated from my wife and little children. What if it now fell out and was seized upon by the crowd? How would that turn out -- an infidel discovered in a Muslim shrine, an Indian visitor illegally in Lahore? 
 As a liberal and secular Hindu, I should not have been worried about being found out. But my fear was symptomatic also of the deeper failures of partition. It had been meant to solve, once and for all, the Hindu-Muslim question. But in both countries, the two communities have only grown further apart. 
 Despite their shared culture, cuisine and love for the game of cricket, India and Pakistan have already fought four wars. And judging by the number of troops on their borders and the missiles and nuclear weapons to back them, they seem prepared to fight a fifth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RIOTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); WRITERS (71%); CEMETERIES (68%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (66%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%); FILM (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); DELHI, INDIA (58%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



254 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Transfer of Iraqi Projects (1 Letter)

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''As U.S. Rebuilds, Iraqi Minister Won't Take Over Finished Work'' (front page, July 28) did not distinguish between transfer of United States-financed infrastructure projects to Iraq and their legal acceptance, leaving an impression that more than 2,000 projects have been left abandoned by the government. 
 The article, and the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction report on which it is based, singles out Iraq's finance minister for blocking the transfer process. The Finance Ministry believes that a decision to accept facilities from donors is the responsibility of line ministries. While uncertainties over signature authority and the difficult operating environment slowed the process, to date 1,625 projects have been transferred to local authorities and 368 to national ministries.
 Your article suggests that a shortage of Iraqi financing is a problem. In fact, growing oil revenue is boosting operational and capital spending. Recognizing that United States-financed projects are being completed every day, Finance Minister Bayan Jabr is willing to provide operating funds ahead of the normal budget process. This year, Iraq has already obligated more on capital projects than it did in 2006, using Iraq's oil earnings for the benefit of its people. 
 Charles Ries Minister for Economic Affairs, United States Embassy Baghdad, Aug. 13, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



255 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Translators Association (1 Letter)

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Some Words About Interpreting'' (In the Hunt, Web column, Aug. 8), Brent Bowers states that the translation and interpreting industry ''doesn't even have a trade association.'' Mr. Bowers may be technically correct, but there are in fact half a dozen major industry organizations serving this booming profession, with the largest, the American Translators Association, boasting 10,000 members in 80 countries. 
 Similar to a trade association, we focus on client education and supporting the language services market. Our Web site has a wealth of information for language services buyers and providers and a publicly accessible database of freelance and corporate providers. 
 We are thrilled with the explosive growth that this important profession has recently experienced, and contrary to Mr. Bowers's assertion, we certainly can keep up with the increasing demand for language services. Mr. Bowers is right in saying that the new, hot career in the global economy is language services, and A.T.A. is proud to represent the many people who choose this field. 
 Marian S. Greenfield President, American Translators Association South Plainfield, N.J., Aug. 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (93%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



256 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Weighing Terrorist Label For Iran Guards

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Thom Shanker contributed reporting from Washington, and David Rohde from Kabul, Afghanistan.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 14 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is preparing to declare that Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps is a foreign terrorist organization, senior administration officials said Tuesday.
 If imposed, the declaration would signal a more confrontational turn in the administration's approach to Iran and would be the first time that the United States has added the armed forces of any sovereign government to its list of terrorist organizations.
 The Revolutionary Guard is thought to be the largest branch of Iran's military. While the United States has long labeled Iran as a state sponsor of terrorism, a decision to single out the guard would amount to an aggressive new challenge from an American administration that has recently seemed conflicted over whether to take a harder line against Tehran over its nuclear program and what American officials have called its destabilizing role in Iraq. 
 According to European diplomats, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has warned of the move in recent conversations with European counterparts, saying that a delay in efforts to win approval from the United Nations Security Council for further economic sanctions on Iran was leaving the administration with little choice but unilateral action. 
 A move toward putting the Revolutionary Guard on the foreign terrorist list would serve at least two purposes for Ms. Rice: to pacify, for a while, administration hawks who are pushing for possible military action, and to further press America's allies to ratchet up sanctions against Iran in the Security Council. 
 The State Department and Treasury officials are pushing for a stronger set of United Nations Security Council sanctions against members of Iran's government, including an extensive travel ban and further moves to restrict the ability of Iran's financial institutions to do business abroad. American officials have also been trying to get European and Asian banks to take additional steps against Iran.
 Senior administration officials said current plans called for the declaration to be made this month, but cautioned that it could be put off, and that the effort could still be set aside if the Security Council moved more quickly to impose broad sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program. 
 The officials said the declaration was being pushed by Ms. Rice, and would not say if it had been endorsed by the National Security Council or the Pentagon.
 President Bush seemed to signal a tougher approach to Iran last week when he called attention to what American officials have said was an active role by the Revolutionary Guard in providing munitions, training and other support to Shiite militants who have been attacking American troops in Iraq. ''When we catch you playing a nonconstructive role, there will be a price to pay,'' Mr. Bush said of Iran during a news conference on Thursday.
 Listing would set in motion a series of automatic sanctions that would make it easier for the United States to block financial accounts and other assets controlled by the guard. In particular, the action would freeze any assets the guard has in the United States, although it is unlikely that the guard maintains much in the way of assets in American banks or other institutions.
 In the internal debate over American policy toward Iran, Ms. Rice has succeeded over the last year in holding the Bush administration to a diplomatic course in which America and five other world powers have used the Security Council to impose sanctions to try to get Tehran to suspend its enrichment of uranium. 
 But in recent months, there has been resurgent debate within the administration about whether the diplomatic path is working, with aides to Vice President Dick Cheney said to be among those pushing for greater consideration of military options. The debate has been kindled by reports from international inspectors detailing Iran's progress in its nuclear program, including the installation of more than 1,000 centrifuges to enrich uranium, as well as the assertions from American intelligence officials about an Iranian role in providing arms and other support to Shiite militias in Iraq and to Taliban militants in Afghanistan.
 Iran has repeatedly denied that it is seeking to build nuclear weapons, that it is helping in any way to facilitate attacks on American troops in Iraq or that it is shipping any weapons to the Taliban, a group Iran opposed in the 1990s.
 On Tuesday, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad again dismissed American complaints that Iran is providing weapons to the Taliban. Speaking in Kabul, Afghanistan, after talks with President Hamid Karzai, he said Iran was ''fully supporting'' its new government.
 Mr. Karzai played down the dispute over the weapons shipments, as he did during a visit to the White House this month. He said that Afghanistan and Iran were ''brothers'' and that both the United States and Iran were helping reconstruct his country.
 In June, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said the volume of weapons reaching the Taliban from Iran made it ''difficult to believe'' that the shipments were ''taking place without the knowledge of the Iranian government.'' In a television interview the same day, Assistant Secretary of State R. Nicholas Burns said there was ''irrefutable evidence'' that the weapons were coming from the Revolutionary Guard.
 There are currently 42 organizations on the State Department's list of foreign terrorist organizations, including Al Qaeda, the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah and the Palestinian groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad.
 In taking aim at the guard, the administration is also trying to divide Iran's population. During his news conference on Thursday, President Bush addressed the Iranian people directly. ''My message to the Iranian people is, 'You can do better than this current government,' '' Mr. Bush said. '' 'You don't have to be isolated. You don't have to be in a position where you can't realize your full economic potential.' ''
 The United States government has not made a public estimate about the size of the Revolutionary Guard, an organization that dates to the Islamic revolution of 1979 and whose branches are believed to extend widely throughout the Iranian military. An estimate by GlobalSecurity.org, a research group based in Alexandria, Va., puts the total guard forces at 125,000.
 The guard and its military wing are identified as a power base for Mr. Ahmadinejad. Under his administration, American officials said, the guard has moved increasingly into commercial operations, earning profits and extending its influence in Iran in areas involving big government contracts, including building airports and other infrastructure, oil production and providing cellphones.
 The immediate legal consequence of the guard's designation as a terrorist organization would be to make it unlawful for anyone subject to United States jurisdiction to knowingly provide material support or resources to the guard, according to the State Department. Any United States financial institution that becomes aware that it possesses, or has control over, funds of a foreign terrorist organization would have to turn them over to the Treasury Department.
 Because Iran has done little business with the United States in more than two decades, the larger point of the designation would be to heighten the political and psychological pressure on Iran, administration officials said, by using the designation to persuade foreign governments and financial institutions to cut ties with Iranian businesses and individuals. 
 The decision would have little impact on American military activities in Iraq, where coalition forces already pursue fighters, advisers and financiers who support antigovernment forces, according to a senior Defense Department official. ''We are going to go after any forces that are engaged in activities that are disruptive to the stability and security of Iraq,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the subject was pending administration policy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, at a ceremony with Revolutionary Guard members in Tehran in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMMAD BERNO/DOCUMENT IRAN, VIA ATLAS PRESS)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (82%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



257 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: European Central Bank, Declaring Market Normal, Hints at a Rate Increase

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY; Mark Landler contributed reporting.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Aug. 14 

 BODY:
The European Central Bank declared on Tuesday that recent financial market turmoil was largely over, a sign that the bank would probably proceed with a plan to increase borrowing costs in early September to curb inflation caused by a rising economy.
 The liquidity problems in the last week, which central banks around the world smoothed over with large cash infusions, had led many investors to reassess whether the European Central Bank would tighten credit when it meets Sept. 6. 
 The president of the bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, said Tuesday in an unusual statement that ''market conditions have gone progressively back to normal,'' as private lenders were beginning to resume their normal routine of extending credit to worthy borrowers. 
 Mr. Trichet's comments were made before markets in the United States fell sharply. 
 His statement highlighted how, within the European bank, decision makers saw no contradiction in supplying liquidity and then raising rates soon thereafter. 
 The first measure is short-term and largely technical, intended to strengthen trust among banks that had tightened their overnight lending to one another. But higher interest rates, while they tighten credit, work in the medium term to control inflation, the bank's main priority.
 Still, the bank has left itself an out. This month when Mr. Trichet first hinted at a September rate increase, he emphasized more than usual that the central bank would not ''precommit'' itself to a rate increase -- least of all during uncertain times.
 ''It still depends on whether we return to stability in the markets,'' Kenneth Wattret, chief euro-zone economist at BNP Paribas in London, said of the possibility of a September rate increase. ''If we go back to a period of turmoil, it's hard to believe they would raise.''
 The European bank has lifted borrowing costs nine times since the end of 2005, to 4.25 percent. Higher interest rates have helped bolster the value of the euro, causing concern among politicians, mainly in France, that the central bank might be quashing a recovery. 
 Yet if the European bank abandons plans for lifting rates in September, it could fan concerns that it is privy to bad news not yet made public.
 ''If the bank now delays its rate increase,'' said Kenneth Broux, an economist at Lloyds TSB in London, ''it will create suspicions it knows something that the markets do not.''
 Data released Tuesday showed that the pace of economic growth in the 13-nation euro zone slowed in the second quarter to 0.3 percent, about half the rate of the first quarter. France and Germany, the two largest euro members, registered 0.3 percent growth in the same period, less than economists had forecast, but in line with the central bank's prognosis of steady growth that would allow it to raise its benchmark rate by a quarter-point.
 Despite the slowing, Axel A. Weber, the president of the German Bundesbank, said that losses related to the collapse of the American subprime mortgage sector would be limited.
 IKB Deutsche Industriebank, a small German bank, sent shudders through markets recently when a default gave rise to a government-engineered rescue. But Mr. Weber said other German financial institutions were sound.
 ''We have confirmed our impression that the increased risks in certain market segments are insulated and that the profit impact for credit institutions is limited over all,'' Mr. Weber said. The recent problems at IKB are a one-time case, he said, specific to that institution.
 Taken together, the statements by the Bundesbank and the central bank appeared to be a broad offensive aimed at closing the door on short-term concerns and easing the way for stability.
 The European bank injected 7.7 billion euros ($10.4 billion) in one-day liquidity into the system Tuesday, a far smaller amount than the 94.8 billion euros it provided Thursday. 
 Mr. Weber's statement was aimed at assuring markets that no more surprises along the lines of IKB were in the offing, since markets feared German lenders might be hiding greater losses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BNP PARIBAS SA (90%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (90%); BNP (BIT) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



258 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Two Giant Retail Chains Say Sales Are Slumping

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Wal-Mart and Home Depot sneezed yesterday. Will the economy catch a cold?
 The two companies, the nation's largest retailers and bellwethers for consumer spending, reported earnings disappointments for the second quarter and predicted an even bumpier year ahead because of higher energy costs and a sagging housing market.
 The sober forecasts reverberated across Wall Street, sending the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down by nearly 2 percent, with the Dow dropping more than 200 points. Shares of both Wal-Mart and Home Depot fell around 5 percent. 
 Home Depot also said that the proposed sale of its supply business, for $11 billion, could fall through because of trouble in the credit markets, potentially forcing the retailer to shrink a $23 billion stock buyback. 
 Economists said the sluggish performance of the chains -- Wal-Mart missed its profit forecast and Home Depot's earnings dropped -- could signal broader troubles in the economy. 
 ''It's a red flag,'' said Jay Bryson, global economist at Wachovia. ''If consumer spending starts to weaken, the overall outlook for economic growth will diminish.''
 That, Wal-Mart executives said, is precisely what has begun to happen in its 4,000 United States stores over the last three months -- even after the chain cut prices on 16,000 products this summer. 
 ''Many customers are running out of money at the end of the month,'' said H. Lee Scott Jr., the chief executive of Wal-Mart. 
 Home Depot's chief executive, Frank Blake, described a ''tough selling environment'' and warned that the housing and home improvement markets would remain weak into 2008.
 But Wal-Mart also blamed itself, for poor clothing and home decor products. And Home Depot has alienated customers with lackluster service, making it difficult to discern how much of the slowdown was self-inflicted damage and how much was tied to larger economic forces. 
 For the second quarter, which ended Aug. 3, Wal-Mart missed its profit estimate and those of Wall Street analysts, a rarity for the company, whose performance is generally the envy of the industry. Earnings from continuing operations were 72 cents a share, below the company forecast of at least 75 cents. Even so, sales rose 8.8 percent, to $92 billion. 
 Net income rose 49 percent, to $3.1 billion, or 76 cents a share. But that figure included 4 cents a share in one-time gains like lower workers' compensation claims. 
 ''Although some people will report that Wal-Mart has had record sales and earnings, our underlying operating performance this quarter was not what we expect of ourselves, and not what our shareholders expect of us,'' Mr. Scott said. 
 For the year, Wal-Mart said it would earn $3.05 to $3.13 a share from continuing operations, lower than its original forecast of $3.15 to $3.23. 
 Mr. Scott said Wal-Mart's shoppers, who generally earn less than $40,000 a household, are ''under difficult pressure economically.''
 He added that ''the paycheck cycle is more pronounced now than ever before,'' meaning that customers are left with little cash by the end of the month. 
 Wal-Mart has lowered prices across its stores to appeal to such customers, but the strategy has hurt its profit margins. Sales of grocery items, electronics and pharmacy items rose in the second quarter, but clothing and home products -- which sell at a higher profit margin -- did not.
 Charles Grom, an analyst at JPMorgan, downgraded Wal-Mart stock yesterday, saying its second-quarter earnings were ''creating a slippery slope for Wal-Mart to climb.''
 ''Wal-Mart's lowered outlook,'' Mr. Grom wrote, ''is more than just resetting the bar this morning. Rather, the company and this management has suffered a credibility blow that will take time to overcome.'' 
 Wal-Mart's shares fell $2.35, more than 5 percent, to close at $43.82 yesterday.
 At Home Depot, second-quarter income fell 14.8 percent, to $1.6 billion, or 81 cents a share, compared with the quarter last year. Sales fell 1.8 percent, to $22.2 billion, while sales at stores open at least a year, a key measure in retailing, fell 5.2 percent.
 ''The housing market remains difficult, and our performance reflects that,'' said Mr. Blake, the chief executive. He noted, for example, that housing starts so far this year were down 22 percent, compared with a year ago, and existing-home sales were down 12 percent.
 Home Depot said its earnings for the year would fall 15 to 18 percent, confirming an earlier forecast. Nevertheless, the company will invest in its stores, giving employees bonuses and remodeling aging outlets to better compete with Lowe's, its biggest rival.
 Executives said they were restructuring the deal to sell Home Depot's supply division, a $12 billion business, to three private equity groups, which could result in a lower sales price. The original price for the division was $10.3 billion. As the home construction market has slowed, the supply business has suffered, which may explain why the buyers want to renegotiate the price. 
 If the sale price is lowered or the deal for Home Depot Supply collapses, Home Depot said it would most likely cut back its share repurchase program, which calls for the company to buy $22.5 billion worth of company stock. 
 Home Depot's stock fell $1.72, or 4.9 percent, to $33.52.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wal-Mart has lowered prices, but the strategy has hurt its profit margins. Its quarterly earnings were below expectations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REED SAXON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C5)
 Home Depot said its earnings for the year would fall because of the weak housing market, a forecast that alarmed Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C1) GRAPH: ''Producer Prices'' Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Labor Department)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); HOME CENTERS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (60%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); WAL-MART STORES INC (94%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); WMT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

PERSON: FRANK BLAKE (79%); H LEE SCOTT JR (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



259 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: In a Reversal, Hedge Fund Will Support Sale of Ceridian

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Aug. 14 

 BODY:
The hedge fund manager William A. Ackman dropped his opposition to the sale of the Ceridian Corporation, the payroll processor, after tangling with the company for months.
 Mr. Ackman, who controls 14.9 percent of Ceridian through his Pershing Square Capital Management and related funds, has insisted Ceridian is worth more than the $36-a-share sale price that the company's managers have accepted. He has said Ceridian should hold out for more money or consider spinning off its profitable Comdata unit, a processor of credit and gift card transactions. 
 With the recent squeeze on credit markets, however, the $36 offer suddenly looks good to Mr. Ackman, according to a filing made on Tuesday.
 ''Significant deterioration in the credit and broader markets has made other alternatives less viable and $36 per share more attractive,'' Mr. Ackman wrote. ''As a result, we fully accept the company's recommendation for the merger and intend to vote our shares in favor of it.''
 Ceridian, based in Minneapolis, agreed to a $5.3 billion buyout offer from Thomas H. Lee Partners and an insurer, Fidelity National Financial. Shareholders are set to vote on the buyout at Ceridian's annual meeting on Sept. 12.
 Mr. Ackman said he would still run his own slate of directors, in case the deal did not close.
 In that case, he wrote, Pershing Square will still own more than $700 million worth of the company and it will need a board ''which is well equipped and incentivized to oversee the business going forward.''
 If Pershing Square's nominees are elected, he said, they do not plan to make any changes in Ceridian's management, despite repeated clashes over the company's direction.
 Ceridian said that it welcomed Pershing Square's announcement, and would urge shareholders to vote for the company's directors rather than those nominated by Pershing Square.
 ''We believe Pershing Square's election contest to replace the Ceridian board may be contentious and disruptive and, if successful, may create unnecessary risks for the company and the transaction,'' the company said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BOOKKEEPING & PAYROLL SERVICES (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); MERGERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%)

COMPANY: CERIDIAN CORP (94%); ARBITRON INC (94%); THOMAS H LEE PARTNERS LP (55%); FIDELITY NATIONAL FINANCIAL INC (55%)

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (94%); FNF (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (94%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (94%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (94%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



260 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: There's Money in Oil, Oystermen Find

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: HOPEDALE, La. 

 BODY:
The brave little oyster boats chug out daily from the dock here, but their richest harvest may actually be sitting in the office towers of downtown New Orleans, 60 miles west of this remote spot where marsh, sky and water converge. 
 In an arrangement that is a Louisiana seafood specialty, though one that can't be fried or covered in sauce, an oysterman here in the nation's top oyster-producing state can make as much, if not more, collecting damage settlements from oil companies as from harvesting the bivalves themselves, according to a recent study by two Louisiana State University economists. 
 Such payments often flow to an oysterman even in cases where there are no oysters to be damaged, said the report, which has infuriated the oyster community here, eliciting complaints that the conclusions are simply lies. 
 The authors say that while the number of oysters per acre has been in decline over the last four decades -- a trend that they attribute to a vast increase in the acreage harvested -- revenue from the oil companies that grudgingly share the rich bottomlands with the oystermen is increasing, thanks to a peculiar accommodation that coastal Louisiana has whispered about for years but nobody had quantified until now.
 This uneasy pay-and-let-live has its origins in an extraordinary cultural-geologic juxtaposition.
 On one hand there is a hallowed Louisiana institution, the oyster lease, established early in the 20th century in homage to the fat shellfish off the state's shores and granted in virtual perpetuity to anybody who was willing to pay $2 per acre a year for coastal bottomland. While legal disputes have led the state to place a moratorium on granting new oyster leases, existing ones are often passed down from father to son, thousands of acres staying in a family through generations, whether they produce oysters or not. In all, some 400,000 acres are now under lease.
 On the other hand there is the black gold beneath the oyster beds -- explored for and then piped and shipped from the murky edges of Louisiana for nearly a century now. The leases give the oystermen virtual ownership of these valuable water bottoms. So when an oil company moves a rig across the waters, or puts down a pipe, or simply lays out plans to do so, an oysterman can claim that his harvest is being damaged. Negotiations frequently result in payment, with or without the threat of a suit.
 Don Briggs, president of the Louisiana Oil and Gas Association, an industry group representing offshore drillers, said, ''A little oyster guy comes up and wants $50,000, we'll pay it to him, just to get him out of the way.'' 
 ''Nobody ever admits to extortion,'' Mr. Briggs added.
 And it does not seem to matter whether there are oysters under the surface. A floor with no oysters can be an absolute bonanza worth millions a year, say the L.S.U. scholars, Walter R. Keithly Jr. and Richard F. Kazmierczak.
 ''On average,'' they wrote, ''oyster leases generate a majority of their net income from non-oyster-producing activities.'' Money ''appears to flow to leases irrespective of their ability to produce marketable oysters.''
 So lucrative is the potential payoff from the oil companies that there is almost certainly a lively trade among oystermen in the ''speculative'' leasing of otherwise unproductive water bottoms, Dr. Keithly and Dr. Kazmierczak concluded. 
 Indeed, speaking on condition of anonymity, one of the major ''landmen'' -- middlemen who negotiate between oystermen and oil companies -- agreed that some fishermen deliberately leased bottoms in harm's way, in order to collect from the companies. 
 These are conclusions the oystermen are far from accepting. 
 ''An outright lie,'' said one, Mike Voisin, chairman of the Louisiana Oyster Task Force, created by the state to represent the industry's interests. ''Outright fallacy. Absolutely not the truth. We're very upset.''
 Dennis Pixton, a genial oysterman on the dock here at Bayou La Loutre, called the findings ''a blatant lie.'' Both he and Mr. Voisin said their income from oysters dwarfed what they received from oil companies. 
 But Robert Conklin, an oyster boat captain, shirtless and bronzed from days at sea, commented knowingly about a colleague grown suddenly rich with the help of few oysters. ''He makes 20, 30 sacks a day, and he's a millionaire,'' said Mr. Conklin, adding that he himself could fill 250 of the sacks on a good day. 
 In all, Dr. Keithly and Dr. Kazmierczak wrote, oystermen gross $10.1 million to $14.79 million a year from oil and gas ''activities.'' The total annual value of the state's oyster production is about $12 million. 
 Not everybody in the Louisiana oyster business harvests revenue from the companies. But even those who do not pursue it nurse a little-guy feeling of grievance, suggesting that only their pugnacity stands between them and ruin at the hands of the powerful energy interests they live with. Less than a mile from the oyster dock here, the towers of a sprawling natural gas processing plant loom over the two-lane blacktop. In the coastal channels, oil barges and oyster boats are constantly passing each other. 
 ''For decades,'' said John Tesvich, an oysterman like generations of his family before him, ''the oil industry has moved equipment indiscriminately, and the state's turned a blind eye. The only impediment they had was the oysterman. It's damage to his crop; it's damage to his lease.''
 ''Whether it's oystermen stealing oysters or oil service barges running on your lease,'' Mr. Tesvich added, ''you've got to protect yourself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oystermen like John Tesvich share offshore Louisiana with energy interests. At right, gas tanks.
 An oyster catch on Mr. Tesvich's boat. Other oystermen often collect lucrative payments in damages from oil companies, a study says, even when their acreage has no oysters to damage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); SEAFOOD (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); WETLANDS (77%); TRENDS (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); FAMILY (65%); EXTORTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



261 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants and Hatred

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Misery Strategy'' (editorial, Aug. 9):
 I live in a semi-rural area of Mexico. I know people in my neighborhood who have gone ''to the other side,'' are planning to go and have come back. They go because of the needs of their families. 
 They are ordinary decent people in a plight most in the United States don't have a clue about. They do far more good than harm in the United States, where employers welcome them, and the money they send home does much that is good for their communities in Mexico.
 Where did all this willingness to feed the flames of hate against them come from? It is unconscionable. It is shameful. We would do far better, we would not stain our national conscience, if we ensured fair treatment of good workers and used the money now used for these terrible anti-immigrant activities to develop local economies in Mexico.
 Esther Buddenhagen 
 Xico, Mexico, Aug. 9, 2007 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



262 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; THE MINIMALIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: To Toss the Shells Is to Discard Flavor

BYLINE: By MARK BITTMAN

 BODY:
SHRIMP shells pose a problem for good cooks. Leaving them on unquestionably enhances any shrimp dish, because their flavor is about as strong as that of the meat. Peeling shrimp at the table, however delicious, is a messy and sometimes finger-burning job. Removing the shells beforehand is easy enough, but for someone who cares about taste, discarding them seems akin to a sin. 
 (In some cases, you can eat the shells, which resolves this problem, but the shells must be thin and you and your guests adventuresome.) 
 Enter shrimp-shell stock, the most easily and quickly made stock there is, the one that provides the most punch for the least hassle.
 To make it, take the shrimp shells, cover them in water -- you can add aromatics like carrots and onions, but it's hardly necessary -- bring to a boil, simmer for a few minutes, and drain. When you are done you have essence of shrimp, a broth of a very high order, the perfect liquid for seafood risottos, stews and soups. 
 It's perfect, too, for a shrimp-based pasta sauce. I first tried this little ragu -- it has some of the same seasoning as the classic meat sauce of central Italy -- in Venice, where it was made with the soft, small local shrimp and fresh pasta.
 At home, duplicating it was difficult for me: I make fresh pasta only for visiting dignitaries and they don't come over often. Fresh shrimp aren't easy to come by either: about 95 percent of the shrimp sold in the United States is frozen before sale. If you do luck into them, though, they will contribute mightily to the overall quality of the dish. 
 Even with more conventional shrimp, the sauce is unusual and appealing. Fresh marjoram is definitely the herb of choice, though fresh oregano is an adequate substitute, and a handful of basil, which changes things a bit, is also good. In any case, do not use dried herbs here. 
 The key, though, is the shrimp-shell stock, which reduces in the sauce and lends a kind of potency that's doubly enjoyable when you consider how economical it is. 
 Recipe: Pasta With Shrimp Ragu Time: 40 minutes
 Time: 40 minutes
 1 1/2 pounds medium-to-large shrimp, in their shells
 Salt and ground black pepper 
 Pinch cayenne
 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 2 medium or 1 large chopped onion
 1 medium carrot, peeled and finely chopped 
 1 large or 3 plum tomatoes, chopped, with juice 
 1 teaspoon chopped fresh marjoram or oregano, plus a few leaves for garnish
 1 pound pasta, preferably fresh.
 1. Shell shrimp; boil shells with just enough water to cover, a large pinch of salt, a grinding of pepper and a pinch of cayenne. Simmer 10 minutes, then drain, reserving liquid (discard shells). Bring a pot of water to boil for pasta and salt it. 
 2. Meanwhile, finely chop about a third of the shrimp. Put olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat; a minute later add onion and carrot, and cook, stirring occasionally, until onions are quite soft, about 10 minutes. Add tomatoes, herb and chopped shrimp, and cook, still over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until tomatoes begin to break down. Add stock from shrimp shells and cook, stirring occasionally, until mixture is no longer soupy but still moist. 
 3. When sauce is almost done, cook pasta. When pasta has about 5 minutes to go, stir whole shrimp into sauce. Serve pasta with sauce and shrimp, garnished with a few leaves of marjoram or oregano. 
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 Recipe: Pasta With Shrimp Ragu Time: 40 minutes
 Time: 40 minutes
 1 1/2 pounds medium-to-large shrimp, in their shells
 Salt and ground black pepper 
 Pinch cayenne
 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 2 medium or 1 large chopped onion
 1 medium carrot, peeled and finely chopped 
 1 large or 3 plum tomatoes, chopped, with juice 
 1 teaspoon chopped fresh marjoram or oregano, plus a few leaves for garnish
 1 pound pasta, preferably fresh.
 1. Shell shrimp; boil shells with just enough water to cover, a large pinch of salt, a grinding of pepper and a pinch of cayenne. Simmer 10 minutes, then drain, reserving liquid (discard shells). Bring a pot of water to boil for pasta and salt it. 
 2. Meanwhile, finely chop about a third of the shrimp. Put olive oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat; a minute later add onion and carrot, and cook, stirring occasionally, until onions are quite soft, about 10 minutes. Add tomatoes, herb and chopped shrimp, and cook, still over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until tomatoes begin to break down. Add stock from shrimp shells and cook, stirring occasionally, until mixture is no longer soupy but still moist. 
 3. When sauce is almost done, cook pasta. When pasta has about 5 minutes to go, stir whole shrimp into sauce. Serve pasta with sauce and shrimp, garnished with a few leaves of marjoram or oregano. 
 Yield: 4 to 6 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A BIT OF GREEN Marjoram is the herb of choice for this shrimp dish. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); PASTA & NOODLES (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); ITALY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



263 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Open Wallet, Insert Mouth

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS. 
E-mail: selenasports@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The sophisticated Olympic athletes who ache to unleash their inner activists in the run-up to Beijing 2008 may find themselves overwhelmed by menu choices:
 I'll take the ''Free Tibet.'' No, the human rights violations.
 The thinking man's Olympian who is determined to rebel against China's ''Up With People'' public-relations machinery with a bold fashion statement may have some wardrobe decisions to make: 
 Try a ''China, Please'' armband to protest the nation's oil ties to Sudan as violence rages in the Darfur region. Or sport a rubber bracelet, of the yellow ''Livestrong'' variety, as a bangle to support a pollution-free Games or lead-free toys or, simply, as an ode to Beijing citizens whose homes were bulldozed to make way for Olympic sites.
 The choices are dizzying, even to athletes who run in Olympic circles.
 ''I don't know what symbol needs to be there,'' said Andy Potts, a triathlete who earned a berth on the United States Olympic team last month at the Pan American Games, in a recent interview at his home in Colorado Springs. ''But it seems like every time you turn around, there is someone trying to make a statement about something. 
 ''It's lost its meaning a little. It has got to be something original and something profound and something genuine.''
 The authenticity of the typical Olympian's soul is rarely in doubt. Most are like Potts, whose bike shares the same modest living room space as a baby swing and a bunch of bananas. 
 These athletes train and sacrifice for little wealth or fame, existing on the timeline of a quirky election candidate who resurfaces in public every four years to run again. 
 Marketers largely ignore the badminton ringers. And they couldn't name an archer outside of Robin Hood (who was an advocate for the poor but never medaled).
 It will be the prime-time podium -- reserved for track stars and swim kings and Dream Teamers -- that will illuminate those Olympians with a cause, and, maybe more importantly, those without one.
 Who dares to arrive in Beijing without a political statement? For some athletes, it will be a personal choice. To light a candle for cultural awareness is out of their character. For others, it will be a business decision. To humiliate China with a stance is to upset their corporate partners.
 As a new member of McDonald's Olympic ad campaign, might the swimmer Michael Phelps think twice before McChallenging China's dubious record on food safety?
 As a Nike pitchman in a Swoosh-factory part of the world, as a Coca-Cola endorser twinned with China's Yao Ming, will LeBron James risk his global expansion plans to question the nation's labor issues? 
 ''I think you take a guy like LeBron James,'' Potts said. ''He's very cognizant of what he sells himself as and whether or not he puts himself out there politically.''
 James has already declined to sign a petition protesting China's link to Darfur this spring because, as he recently told Time magazine, he was still educating himself on the issue. (Hint: Google ''genocide.'')
 He knows Wall Street, though. James once told The Akron Beacon-Journal: ''I tell my friends and teammates that you have to go global. In basketball and business.''
 James's platinum-level ambitions, including his goal to be the world's richest athlete, fly in contrast to his selflessness as a player. 
 James is extremely self-aware, increasingly sensitive about how his money-bags tone has been received in recent months.
 Maybe that's why he bristled when asked about his branding strategy for China during a recent interview in Las Vegas, where he was practicing with the United States team for its coming basketball qualifying tournament. 
 ''I'm not waking up saying, Let's build a brand in China,'' James said.
 But it is all but written in his business planner. And in Mandarin, no less. In preparation for Beijing, James has been taking Mandarin lessons, which were understandably knocked down the priority list during the Cleveland Cavaliers' playoff run.
 ''My N.B.A. season went a little further than I thought it would, so I'm a little rusty,'' he said. 
 There is enlightenment in his effort. He is reaching out, not just reaching into China's vast cookie jar of consumers. But like a lot of the American corporations he represents, James is into Beijing 2008 for economic growth, not political debate. 
 That's his option. In the coming months, at every Beijing qualifying event, athletes will be making decisions on which cause, if any, they'll support. 
 ''I think there is an opportunity and a platform to talk about and bring about awareness to social issues, but it's a personal choice to tackle it,'' Potts said. ''Hopefully, it remains a personal choice because you'd hate to have it scripted out for you. When it's scripted, it's just not genuine. I think people can see through that.''
 Wearing a rubber bracelet will not automatically authenticate a star as an advocate. And preferring to sidestep politics will not diminish an Olympian. It's the motive behind the resolve that matters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LeBron James, left, with Dwyane Wade, did not sign a petition protesting China's link to Darfur. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); ARCHERY (78%); FAST FOOD (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LEAD (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (57%); FOOD SAFETY (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%); COCA-COLA CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UP WITH PEOPLE (57%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (68%); KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (58%); LEBRON JAMES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (88%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (95%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SUDAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



264 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Syrians Tired of Energy Ills Doubt the West Is to Blame

BYLINE: By HUGH NAYLOR

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, Aug. 14 

 BODY:
Syria has had a summer of power failures and electricity shortages, and recent suggestions by Prime Minister Muhammad Naki al-Otari that American and French economic pressures are to blame are being greeted with skepticism by a weary public.
 Mr. Otari's claims represent a shift in position in a country that has long held that American pressure has had a negligible impact. But many Syrians say their electricity woes are more a function of government incompetence than of international pressure. 
 ''According to my knowledge, the official line has been that America's sanctions and its policy of isolating Syria are both failing,'' Nidal Malouf, director of the Syrian Economic Center, wrote in an Aug. 5 article on Syria-News.com, a private online news agency. ''Now the government is trying to find an excuse for its failure to provide cities with the most basic needs.''
 Issam Zaim, a former minister of industry and outspoken political commentator, said the prime minister's remarks were an attempt to avoid blame for years of procrastination in upgrading a national power grid still operating on technology that is decades old.
 ''The main problem for Syria is a total lack of planning for the future,'' said Mr. Zaim. ''Sanctions may be having an effect, but bad governance is the main factor, and we're seeing none of our officials being held accountable for their mistakes.''
 The power failures have occurred in one of the warmest summers in recent memory. In Damascus, which has had daily blackouts lasting as long as five hours, the roar of gas generators is drowning out the city's notoriously loud traffic. In some suburbs, the lights are on for only six hours a day.
 Unconfirmed reports say Syria, a regional supplier of electricity, has had to suspend exports to Lebanon and northern Iraq several times this summer to conserve energy.
 ''These power interruptions are costing the country dearly,'' Mr. Zaim said. ''This is affecting our ability to pump water around the country, which not only affects human consumption, but industry, agriculture, just about everything.''
 The Bush administration sponsored sanctions, under the Syrian Accountability and Lebanese Sovereignty Restoration Act of 2004, to penalize Syria for allowing militant Palestinian organizations like Hamas to have a presence in Syria, and for what the administration contends is Syrian meddling in Lebanese affairs and funneling of Islamic militants into Iraq. In many respects, the sanctions are little more than political symbolism. Direct flights between Syria and the United States are banned, but there had been none. Despite an export ban on most American products, trade between the United States and Syria increased by 30 percent in 2006. A booming black market traffics in American goods.
 But Syrian officials say now that the sanctions are affecting power generation. Construction contracts for two large power plants, needed to keep pace with rising energy demand, have gone up for bid on the international market five times over the last two years with no takers.
 Of the companies capable of building them, Prime Minister Otari accused the American company General Electric of declining to bid on the job and then persuading Japanese-owned Mitsubishi not do bid, either. Alstom, a French company, was ''pressured by Jacques Chirac,'' the former president of France, ''not to work in Syria,'' Mr. Otari said in an Aug. 4 speech in Latakia, a coastal city. ''The postponement in constructing these plants is a result of political reasons.''
 Andrew Tabler, editor of Syria Today Magazine, said in an interview, ''Syria now finds itself in a situation where the number of companies that can build big power facilities are limited, and the ones that can do this have apparently followed the American lead because they fear the repercussions of doing business here.''
 Though American companies may invest here legally, some have hesitated, and energy businesses like Conoco Phillips and Marathon Oil have pulled out over the past three years.
 This month, the Bush administration said it would seize the assets of individuals who threaten Lebanon's beleaguered governing coalition, a veiled warning to Syrian officials and their Hezbollah allies in Lebanon.
 ''Like the sword of Damocles, Bush has the option of coming down hard on the heads of multinationals dealing with Syria,'' Mr. Tabler said.
 The government estimates electrical output must increase by 9 percent this year to keep pace with an influx of nearly two million Iraqi refugees, a high local birthrate and an emerging private sector with accelerating levels of electricity consumption. Oil exports, whose windfall revenues once buoyed Syria's bloated public sector in times of crisis, have plummeted. 
 Because of pressure from the West, Syria has turned recently to its Arab neighbors, China and Iran to finance privatization. Officials predict that foreign investment will expand by 11 percent this year, to more than $3 billion, much of it coming from oil-rich states like Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
 But none of these countries has the expertise to solve Syria's electricity problems, Mr. Tabler said. ''There are certain things that Western companies dominate, like power generation facilities,'' he said. ''It's just hard to get around these facts.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EXPORT CONTROLS (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); HAMAS (64%); AIR SERVICE (64%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%) SYRIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); LEBANON (93%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (91%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



265 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: In Magazine Article, Giuliani Details His Policy on Iran

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Laying out his views on foreign policy, Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the leading candidates for the Republican presidential nomination, said he would be open to negotiations with Iran but would not rule out destroying its nuclear facilities as a last resort. 
 The Bush administration and other Republican candidates have not ruled out such military action against Iran if it flexes its nuclear muscle further and if there is evidence that it is colluding with Iraqis in the killing of Americans. 
 But in describing his foreign policy views, in the current issue of Foreign Affairs magazine, Mr. Giuliani was characteristically blunt.
 ''The theocrats ruling Iran need to understand that we can wield the stick as well as the carrot, by undermining popular support for their regime, damaging the Iranian economy, weakening Iran's military, and, should all else fail, destroying its nuclear infrastructure,'' he wrote.
 Mr. Giuliani's article was published after President Bush made pointed comments about Iran last week at a news conference, saying, ''There will be consequences'' for Iranians who help Iraqis kill Americans.
 ''When we catch you playing a nonconstructive role'' in Iraq, Mr. Bush said, ''there will be a price to pay.'' He called Iran a ''very troubling nation right now.''
 According to news accounts, there was an ''intense internal debate'' in the White House over how to respond to Iran's support for Shiites in Iraq and to its nuclear program. They said Vice President Dick Cheney had been arguing for military action if clear evidence of Iranian activity against Americans emerged. 
 In a debate this year, Mr. Giuliani and another top Republican candidate, Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, said they had not ruled out using ''tactical'' nuclear weapons against Iran to keep it from obtaining nuclear weapons.
 The leading Democratic presidential candidates, especially Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois, have clashed repeatedly with each other in debates over their experience and judgment in the conducting of foreign policy, including how to deal with nations like Iran.
 Mr. Obama has said that as part of a new strategy for dealing with what United States officials consider rogue nations, he -- unlike the Bush administration -- would meet with their leaders, including the leader of Iran. 
 Mrs. Clinton was more cautious, saying she would first make sure that she was not being used for propaganda purposes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday in Columbia, S.C. He explains his foreign policy in the new issue of Foreign Affairs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRETT FLASHNICK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); DICK CHENEY (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



266 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Question of Sons' Choices Dogs Romney Campaign

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Michael Cooper contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Mitt Romney has been asked before on the campaign trail if his sons have served in the military, and he usually has dispatched the question easily enough.
 But an awkward response last week in Iowa, in which Mr. Romney said in part that ''one of the ways my sons are showing support for our nation is helping to get me elected,'' forced him several days later to say he misspoke and injected a discordant note into his otherwise triumphant few days after he won the state's Republican straw poll.
 It has also threatened to put a chink in what has been widely viewed as a major asset in his bid for the Republican presidential nomination: his crowded family portrait, which includes five successful adult sons who have been a prominent part of his campaign. 
 The fact that none have served in the armed forces is a potentially sensitive point, given how badly stretched the nation's military has become with the conflict in Iraq and the nearly unanimous support for the war on the part of the Republican candidates. 
 An opponent of the war raised the issue again with Mr. Romney last week at a forum in eastern Iowa. Although his campaign said Mr. Romney's remarks were taken out of context, his response to the pointed question drew potshots because of his mention of what his sons were doing in his campaign, including that his son Josh had driven a Winnebago to all of the state's 99 counties. 
 Mr. Romney said later in an interview on ''Fox News Sunday'' that he had not meant to equate military service with his sons' campaign work. To be fair, that part of his response came only after an extended series of comments in which he explained that the military was a ''volunteer army'' and that his sons had made different career choices. 
 Some have questioned the fairness of impugning Mr. Romney for his sons' choices. It is also unclear why Mr. Romney's children have drawn scrutiny and not those of others, like Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has a son at Duke University. 
 ''Is it a fair question?'' said Stewart Peay, the husband of Mr. Romney's niece, who went to Iraq with the Utah National Guard. ''In the world of the all-volunteer army, I don't know if it is or not.'' 
 But Mr. Peay said that while in Iraq he had wrestled with what difference it might have made if President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney had family members in harm's way.
 ''I think it's unfortunate sometimes that we don't have a broader group of people in the military,'' he said, ''but that's a result of an all-volunteer military.'' 
 There was a time when military service was much more common for family members of those in public life. President Franklin D. Roosevelt's four sons all fought in World War II. All four sons of Joseph P. Kennedy served in the military, including his eldest, Joseph Jr., who was killed in World War II, and his second son, John F. Kennedy, who was wounded and later went on to become president. 
 Politicians should try to envision whether they believe in a war enough that they would send their own children, said Nancy Lessin, co-founder of Military Families Speak Out, an antiwar group made up of more than 3,600 military families.
 ''If this war is so important, why is it O.K. for you to support our loved ones fighting it but not send your own sons?'' said Ms. Lessin, whose stepson joined the Marines after college and went to Iraq. 
 The fact that Mr. Romney's sons have not served is not necessarily surprising, she said, because the military tends to be dominated by those from less well-to-do backgrounds.
 ''There is the economic, or the opportunity, draft,'' Ms. Lessin said. 
 Of others seeking the presidency, Representative Duncan Hunter, Republican of California, talks often on the stump about his son, Duncan Jr., who served two tours in Iraq with the Marines and is on his third in Afghanistan.
 ''I think it's valuable to have a commander in chief who can look the American people in the eye and say, 'We're all in this together,' '' said Mr. Hunter, who is a Vietnam veteran. 
 Senator John McCain, a former prisoner of war in Vietnam, by contrast, goes out of his way to avoid talking publicly about his son Jimmy, a marine who was recently deployed to Iraq. Mr. McCain has another son, Jack, who is at the United States Naval Academy.
 Shortly before leaving for Iraq, Jimmy McCain spent a few days last month on the campaign trail in New Hampshire with his father. He stayed in the background at events, even when Mr. McCain gave a big speech laying out his reasons for continuing to support the current strategy in Iraq. 
 The one time Jimmy McCain's name came up was at the last stop of the trip. There, at American Legion Post 29 in Claremont, N.H., one of the veterans who gathered for a public forum drew a big round of applause for praising Jimmy McCain's service. 
 Apparently unbeknown to the questioner, Mr. McCain's son was sitting just a few seats away. But Mr. McCain did not introduce him to the crowd.
 Fair or not, it is likely that the issue will continue to dog Mr. Romney. He got the question again later in the week at the Iowa State Fair, this time from a man holding a photograph of his son in a soldier's uniform. 
 ''None of your sons are in the military?'' the man asked.
 Mr. Romney said they were not.
 ''Are they going to go over to Iraq?'' the man asked.
 ''No, they are not,'' Mr. Romney said.
 ''Who is going to do his job?'' the man said. 
 ''We have a volunteer army,'' Mr. Romney said. ''That's the reason.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Craig Romney, left, and Josh Romney applaud their father, Mitt, a Republican presidential candidate, campaigning in Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ARMIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); DICK CHENEY (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2007



267 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: Forced to Pick a Major, 4 Years Before Choosing a Prom Date

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: ENGLEWOOD, N.J. 

 BODY:
Ninth graders often have trouble selecting what clothes to wear to school each morning or what to have for lunch. But starting this fall, freshmen at Dwight Morrow High School here in Bergen County must declare a major that will determine what electives they take for four years and be noted on their diplomas.
 For Dwight Morrow, a school that has struggled with low test scores and racial tensions for years, establishing majors is a way to make their students stay interested until graduation and stand out in the hypercompetitive college admissions process. 
 Some parents have welcomed the requirement, noting that a magnet school in the district already allowed some students to specialize. But other parents and some educators have criticized it as preprofessionalism run amok or a marketing gimmick. 
 ''I thought high school was about finding what you liked to do,'' said Kendall Eatman, an Englewood mother of six who was president of the Dwight Morrow student body before graduating in 1978. ''I think it's too early to be so rigid.''
 Debra Humphreys, a spokeswoman for the Association of American Colleges and Universities, called high-school majors ''a colossally bad idea,'' saying youngsters should instead concentrate on developing a broad range of critical thinking and communication skills.
 ''Today's economy requires people to be constantly learning and changing,'' Ms. Humphreys said. ''A lot of jobs that high school students are likely to have 10 years from now don't yet exist, so preparing too narrowly will not serve them well.''
 Despite such naysayers, a number of school districts around the country are experimenting with high school majors, an outgrowth of the popular ''career academies'' that have become commonplace nationally, and in New York City, over the past decade. But while many career academies simply add a few courses to a broad core curriculum, majors require individual students to make a more serious commitment to a particular educational path.
 Starting this month, Florida districts will require every ninth grader to major in one of more than 400 state-approved subjects, ranging from world cultures to fashion design to family and consumer sciences. South Carolina enacted a similar law last year, designating 16 career clusters, including architecture, government and agriculture. 
 In Mississippi, a $5 million pilot program in 14 districts this fall will have ninth graders following one of seven career paths, like construction and manufacturing or science, technology, engineering and math.
 The Southern Regional Education Board, a nonprofit organization started by governors, said that of the 1,200 high schools it works with in 32 states, about half now require students to specialize, though not all have gone so far as to require majors. In New York City, where the small schools movement has spawned Food and Finance High School and the Academy of Hospitality and Tourism, education officials said that a handful of other schools that focus on business, science or math have established majors for their students.
 ''This is like the middle-class version of what affluent families have been doing for years,'' said Mitchell Stevens, an associate professor of education and sociology at New York University, who sees the move as a way for public schools to provide a broader menu of educational choices. ''They tailor academic instruction around the needs and desires of their children in order to encourage them to do well in school.''
 Here in Englewood, every eighth-grader already works with a guidance counselor to formulate a six-year academic career plan that stretches through the first year of college. Elementary-school classrooms are named Harvard, Yale and Rutgers. The district's 1,063 high school students attend classes in Gothic-style buildings on a 40-acre campus named for Dwight Morrow, a former senator and diplomat whose daughter, Anne, married Charles Lindbergh. 
 Surrounded by top-performing school districts, Dwight Morrow's students have scored below the state average on basic skills tests. In the 2005-6 school year, 79.6 percent passed the state reading test and 65.4 percent the math test, compared with 83.5 percent and 75.9 percent statewide. 
 District officials said they are establishing the majors to personalize the learning experience and engage students, and because college admissions officers have said over the years that they favor students with expertise in particular areas since it demonstrates commitment and passion. 
 ''We need to stay ahead of what traditional high schools are doing,'' said the superintendent, Carol A. Lisa. ''We felt in this district we had to level the playing field so our children could compete and go to top schools.'' 
 Michael A. Polizzi, an assistant superintendent, said the district carefully researched future demand for jobs, examined college programs and surveyed students about their interests before settling on its first six majors: sports management, fine and performing arts, health sciences, international studies and global commerce, communications and new media and or liberal arts. In 2008, the school plans to add environmental studies and a ''preteaching institute.''
 Nicole Hutchison, 14, starting at Dwight Morrow next month, likes to make people feel better, so she imagines herself becoming a doctor, nurse or cosmetologist. But she picked performing arts because she loves to dance -- and, she said, because she had not given much thought to the other options. ''I think I'm too young to make a decision because I might change my mind later on,'' she said.
 While this fall marks the debut of majors here, Englewood has been experimenting with specialization since 2002, when the district created a magnet program to attract white students from surrounding districts, under the district's efforts to desegregate. Today, three quarters of the high school students are black or Hispanic, and 60 percent poor enough to qualify for free and reduced lunches.
 With more than 400 high-achieving students enrolled, the program --housed in its own building on the Dwight Morrow campus -- offers concentrations in engineering, law and public safety, biomedicine, finance, and information systems. 
 Glenn Garrison, the Englewood school board president, said the magnet's success sparked jealousy from parents, who requested a similar program in the traditional high school. He and other district officials said they had not received a single complaint about the move to require majors. 
 ''When we went to high school, we majored in boys,'' said one supportive parent, Annette Miller, who has a 10-year-old in fifth grade in Englewood. ''I think it's a good thing for them to be more serious. Have fun in the elementary schools.''
 The district has spent about $250,000 so far to accommodate the new specialties, hiring five additional teachers, reorganizing the existing faculty, and setting up advisory boards for each track that include performing artists, doctors and lawyers for the National Basketball Association and Major League Baseball. A speaker series will also bring professionals into classrooms: The comedians David Feldman and Rick Overton, alumni of the high school, are scheduled to conduct a comedy writing workshop in October.
 ''It eliminates the phrase, 'I'm never going to need that when I grow up,''' said Randy Sherry, a technology teacher, who sees majors as a way to emphasize real-life experiences. ''I don't want to just throw education at them. I want them to be here for something they like, and that's what the majors can do.'' 
 Students entering the ninth grade applied for majors last spring by submitting essays about why they wanted to specialize in a particular field (the most popular was sports management). Every student was assigned their first or second choices; they are expected to stick with their major through four years unless they have a compelling reason to change.
 Students will take a minimum of one course in their major every trimester, in addition to state-mandated requirements in core subjects. Performing arts majors like Nicole will also spend an extra hour a day in school to accommodate rehearsals. 
 Nicole's mother, Georgette Hutchison, said she liked the concept of majors, but wondered whether it was ''premature'' for ninth graders to make such choices. ''I don't know what they're expecting out of these 14-year-olds,'' said Mrs. Hutchison, who drives a school bus. ''I think they're going to have a lot of 'I changed my mind.' ''
 Akelia Morrison already has. 
 Two years ago, Akelia applied to the magnet program's law and public safety academy because she wanted to be a lawyer. But after finding many of the legal cases boring and hard to relate to, she was unable to take classes in other fields because she was locked into her specialization.
 ''Now I wish I had probably gone to another academy because I like computers,'' said Akelia, who is 16 and starting her junior year. ''When you're 13, you don't realize how much work you have to put in to be a lawyer. It's not like you just go to court, and win or lose, you make a lot of money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicole Hutchison, 14, picked performing arts as her major at her school in Bergen County, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); CURRICULA (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); CORE CURRICULUM (75%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); TOURISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN COLLEGES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



268 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: The Less-Than-Generous State

 BODY:
You would think that we were living in the lap of the Nanny State. One of the most puzzling facts of the political debate is how much traction Republicans still get from their calls to cut taxes and public spending, and how timorous Democrats are in arguing against them. 
 The United States has long had one of the most meager tax takes in the industrial world. America's social spending -- on programs ranging from Medicare and Social Security to food stamps -- is almost the stingiest among industrial nations. Among the 30 industrialized countries grouped in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, only four -- Turkey, Mexico, South Korea and Ireland -- spend less on social programs as a share of their economy. 
 Long a moral outrage, this tightfisted approach to public needs is becoming an economic handicap. Shortchanging public health impairs America's competitiveness. If the United States is to reap the rewards of globalization, the government must provide a much more robust safety net -- to ensure public support for an open economy and protect vulnerable workers. 
 The O.E.C.D.'s definition of social spending includes programs to help people overcome such challenges as old age, poverty and unemployment. It excludes most education and the tax deduction for mortgage interest, which in the United States benefits the well-to-do more than others. 
 The United States has long preferred financing some social goals with tax breaks, such as the deduction for company-provided health insurance or credits for dependent care. After adding in these breaks America still comes out sixth from the bottom in total social spending. 
 Abdicating responsibilities doesn't make them go away, it just pushes them onto the individual or the private sector, which often can't cope with the burden. That's most evident in companies' withdrawal of health benefits. In this country, according to an O.E.C.D. study, unemployment benefits replace, on average, 14 percent of workers' lost earnings. Of the 20 richest countries in the organization, only Japan's are lower. 
 For American workers, and voters, to accept the increased competition brought on by globalization, the public sector would have to provide much better social insurance than that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



269 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Amateur Hour on Iran

 BODY:
The dangers posed by Iran are serious, and America needs to respond with serious policies, not more theatrics. Labeling Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps as a foreign terrorist organization -- as the State Department now proposes -- is another distraction when what the Bush administration needs to be doing is opening comprehensive negotiations with Tehran, backed by increasing international economic pressure. 
 Those negotiations need to deal with all real and alleged facets of Iran's many dangerous behaviors: its nuclear ambitions; its sectarian meddling in Iraq; its providing of missiles to Hezbollah in Lebanon; and the charges it is arming the Taliban and others in Afghanistan. And any talks must take into account Iran's concerns about its own security -- with a clear offer that it can come in from the diplomatic and economic cold if it improves its behavior. 
 Designating Iran's Revolutionary Guard as a foreign terrorist group would trigger automatic American economic penalties against the guard leaders and companies dealing with them. But Iran does little direct business with the United States, so those penalties would cause minimal pain. That suggests that the State Department's real audience isn't Tehran, but conflict-obsessed administration hawks, who are lobbying for military strikes, and conflict-averse European allies, who have resisted more far-reaching multilateral economic sanctions.
 We hope the State Department prevails in both of those arguments. But it has chosen a particularly blunt instrument to wave around. If there's any doubt about that, officials should take another look at the recent North Korea nuclear deal -- and the contortions and delays they had to go through to roll back the Patriot Act sanctions on North Korean bank deposits. 
 It is also surely not in America's interest to dilute the hard-won international consensus against terrorist groups like Al Qaeda by stretching the term to include a section of Tehran's official armed forces. That said, the Revolutionary Guard is a real and present danger for the Iranian people and their neighbors. Formed in 1979 as an ideological shock force to protect Iran's revolutionary clerics, the guards have played a central role in some of the regime's most abhorrent activities, including assassinating dissidents. And they have built up a considerable business empire, especially in military related industries, including Iran's efforts to produce fuel that could be used for nuclear weapons. 
 International asset freezes and foreign travel bans directed at Revolutionary Guard leaders and their business partners are certainly deserved, and would make real sense as part of a program of international sanctions and coupled with a clear American offer for serious negotiations. By themselves they are futile.
 In its desperation over Iraq, the White House has grudgingly allowed American diplomats in Baghdad to meet with their Iranian counterparts, most recently last week. But these sessions have been little more than empty rituals -- long recitations of mutual complaints with no effort to even consider possible solutions. Iran has become too dangerous a problem for such continued amateurism. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); TALIBAN (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); AL-QAEDA (72%); LOBBYING (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); US PATRIOT ACT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN (90%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



270 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Ease, but in Fed's View, Inflation Is Still a Risk

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The increase in consumer prices eased slightly last month, continuing a trend of gradual moderation, the government said yesterday. But long-term readings on inflation suggested that the Federal Reserve is unlikely to lower its guard.
 For the third consecutive month, the rate of core inflation measured over the last year -- a gauge of prices that the Fed favors because it excludes volatility-prone food and energy prices -- showed no improvement. It remained stalled at 2.2 percent, which supports the Fed's assertion last week that ''a sustained moderation in inflation pressures has yet to be convincingly demonstrated.''
 A separate economic report showing healthy production in American factories last month supported the notion that the economy is not in need of the stimulus that a Fed rate cut would provide. The message from the latest numbers -- that economic growth is stronger than first thought and inflation is still too high -- seemed to underscore the growing disconnect between what economic indicators are saying about growth and the disarray playing out on Wall Street. 
 ''The economic data we've received by itself suggests no need for the Fed to consider cutting rates,'' said Dean Maki, chief United States economist for Barclays Capital. ''There's ample reason for the Fed to be concerned about inflation risks.''
 As lenders have made borrowing money more difficult and more expensive lately, Wall Street has gone into retreat. Stock prices have fluctuated wildly and have lost about 9 percent of their value since hitting record highs on July 19. A number of large hedge funds have suffered drastic losses. This turbulence has led some on Wall Street to call for the Fed to lower rates to stave off a crisis.
 But the Fed's position is that the problems in the markets are not likely to spill over into the rest of the economy. And the central bank remains fixed on bringing inflation down further, something it fears it cannot accomplish if it lowers rates now.
 ''If you say we just lowered interest rates because the financial markets are upset, people are going to say that's Ben Bernanke bailing out Wall Street,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist for Goldman Sachs. ''And clearly that's not the perception they want.''
 The Labor Department said yesterday in its monthly survey of prices at the retail level that the Consumer Price Index rose 0.1 percent in July after an increase of 0.2 percent in June. From July 2006 to July 2007, prices climbed 2.4 percent, compared with a 2.7 percent annual increase in June.
 While inflation has improved over all, core consumer prices have not. For the month, they rose 0.2 percent, the same as in June. On a year-over-year basis, they rose 2.2 percent, the same as in June and May.
 ''This is a sign that things are improving; however, there are still risks,'' said Joseph Brusuelas, chief United States economist with IdeaGlobal. ''Inflation's sticky.''
 Falling energy costs helped keep inflation from climbing too rapidly. After rising considerably in the spring, energy costs fell 1 percent in July, with a 1.7 percent drop in the cost of gasoline, the government said.
 Price increases elsewhere, however, remained elevated. Health care costs continued to rise, increasing 0.6 percent, compared with a rise of 0.4 percent in June. They were up 4.3 percent in the last year.
 Hotel room prices are climbing as well, a jump that some economists said could be attributed to increased demand from foreign tourists attracted to the United States by a weaker dollar. The government's calculation of lodging away from home rose 7.2 percent from July last year. During the first half of the year, according to PKF Hospitality Research, occupancy rates rose in several large cities, including New York, Chicago and Seattle. 
 Food prices increased over all, but at a slower rate than in June. For the year, however, food prices were up 4.2 percent, almost double the 2.2 percent yearly increase last July.
 One area of improvement that has helped with the gradual moderation of core inflation has been housing costs. As of July, the seasonally adjusted six-month increase for a measurement of housing costs known as owners' equivalent rent was 2.4 percent -- less than half what it was a year earlier. 
 As inventories of unsold homes grow, rent is becoming less expensive in many parts of the country. That has depressed the cost of housing, economists said.
 Gains in exports could help ease the housing industry's drag on growth. The manufacturing numbers, released yesterday by the Fed, showed that industrial production continued to expand in July, aided by overseas demand. It rose 0.3 percent after increasing 0.6 percent in June. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Falling energy costs helped keep inflation from climbing too rapidly. After rising considerably in the spring, energy costs fell 1 percent in July, the government said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREI PUNGOVSCHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: ''Costs Rise Slightly'' Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); FOOD PRICES (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



271 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Weapons of Mass Preservation

BYLINE: By ANTHONY H. CORDESMAN. 
Anthony H. Cordesman is a fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

 BODY:
Washington
 IN an ideal world, arms sales are hardly the tool the United States would use to win stability and influence. America does not, however, exist in an ideal world, nor in one that it can suddenly reform with good intentions and soft power. Those pressuring Congress to kill the Bush administration's proposed $20 billion arms deal with Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf states need to step back into the real world. 
 America has vital long-term strategic interests in the Middle East. The gulf has well over 60 percent of the world's proven conventional oil reserves and nearly 40 percent of its natural gas. The global economy, and part of every job in America, is dependent on trying to preserve the stability of the region and the flow of energy exports. 
 Washington cannot -- and should not -- try to bring security to the gulf without allies, and Saudi Arabia is the only meaningful military power there that can help deter and contain a steadily more aggressive Iran. (Disclosure: the nonprofit organization I work for receives financing from many sources, including the United States government, Saudi Arabia and Israel. No one from any of those sources has asked me to write this article.) We need the support of the smaller gulf states as well, but Saudi Arabia underpins any effort at regional security cooperation and in dealing with Iranian military adventures and acquisition of nuclear weapons.
 This means mutual tolerance and respect. Saudi Arabia is not the United States, and reform there is going to be slow and often focused more on economic development and the quality of governance than on democracy and human rights. Reform, however, does happen. Saudi cooperation in counterterrorism still has limits, but it has steadily improved. For all the rather careless talk about Saudi nationals entering Iraq to fight a jihad, the numbers of volunteers total some 10 to 25 a month.
 Moreover, the United States is in a poor position to criticize Saudi support of its positions in Iraq and the Arab-Israeli peace process. Sunni Arabs like the Saudis have every reason to accuse the Bush administration of being slow to realize it was backing a political process in Iraq that has led to the broad sectarian ''cleansing'' of Sunnis in key cities like Baghdad and that has so far deprived them of a fair share of political power and Iraq's wealth. Until the last few months, when the administration suddenly rediscovered the importance of the Arab-Israeli peace process, Saudi Arabia was pushing harder for a deal than Washington was.
 Critics of the Saudi arms deal have also taken aim at the administration's proposed increases in military aid to Israel and Egypt. That, too, is misguided. The success of Israel's peace with Egypt and Jordan is heavily dependent on American military aid to Egypt. 
 Israel itself faces new threats and must maintain its conventional military edge; it must adapt to new asymmetric threats from Iran, Syria and Hezbollah, and it has to deal with the growing possibility of an Iranian nuclear threat to its very existence. Helping Israel deal with conventional threats through arms sales frees it to deal with those other threats on its own, and produces far more stability in the region than would a weak Israel, which might have to strike pre-emptively or overreact.
 Equally important, the proposed arms sales are not going to produce sudden shifts in the military balance or a new regional arms race. While the scope of the Israel deal -- more than $30 billion over the next 10 years -- seems huge, it really means deliveries over a decade at a cost one-third higher than in the past. Given the steadily rising cost of arms technology, Israel may not ''break even'' in terms of actual numbers of weapons delivered. Egypt will get substantially less down the road, but enough to show that it has parity in some key types of weapons and to be a significant potential partner in any future broader regional struggle.
 Sales to Saudi Arabia will take place with or without the United States -- from Europe, Russia or China. It will take more than a decade for the weapons to be delivered and fully absorbed into Saudi forces. They will help the kingdom deal with a growing Iranian missile threat, give it the precision-strike capability that can deter Iranian adventures, and update Saudi forces that have lagged in a number of important areas. 
 Until we wake up in a perfect world, we must build strong security relations with allies that are sometimes less than perfect. We also must not discriminate between Israel and Arab allies, which would undercut our national interest and maybe actually weaken Israeli security by increasing Arab hostility to both Israel and the United States. This is particularly true when the motive for such discrimination is domestic political posturing and self-advantage, rather than a serious concern for America's role in the world. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPHE VORLET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (98%); ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (93%); EGYPT (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



272 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Want to Cut Slice Going to U.S. Middlemen

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN. 
James Flanigan writes about small-business trends in California and the West, and this column appears in print on the third Thursday of every month. E-mail: jamesflanigan@nytimes.com

 BODY:
GROWING numbers of Chinese companies are quietly setting up operations in the United States, even as trade with China has ignited loud debates in Congress.
 That trend was clear last month, as owners and executives of 45 Chinese companies came to Los Angeles seeking partnerships with small-to-medium American concerns to help broaden distribution in the United States for Chinese products and services. 
 The visitors met as many as 300 American businesspeople at the China Global Conference, which was organized by the Asia Pacific-USA Chamber of Commerce of Pasadena, Calif. And although it is too soon to tell whether they made deals, the Chinese companies that sent delegates are part of the pattern of reaching directly for the American market. 
 More than 500 Chinese companies now have offices or operations in California. They want to set up operations or work with American companies to increase their share of the proceeds from trade between China and the United States, which last year included $340 billion worth of merchandise -- more than $130 billion of that coming through the ports of Southern California. 
 Manufacturers in China receive 20 percent or less of the revenue from merchandise they export to the American market, according to Chinese government officials and economists who have testified to Congress. Typically, American companies design and order the products, receive them at the American ports, distribute and market them across the country, and sell them at retail. In doing so, they hold on to 80 percent or more of the revenue.
 ''Now, Chinese companies want to move up the value chain,'' said Stacy Sun, a business consultant in Pasadena who organized the two-day conference in July. ''They see increasing their part in distribution and marketing as ways to accomplish that.''
 Puluosi Lighting of Changzhou, China, and its American division, Plus Lighting of La Verne, Calif., illustrate the trend. The Puluosi factory in Changzhou, a city of 3.5 million on the Yangtze River, makes halogen lamps to light streets and parking lots.
 It makes many of its lights on contract for General Electric, Philips and Sylvania, said Daniel Qian, president of Plus Lighting. Mr. Qian said that business has been good and that sales in the United States grew to $10 million last year. But three years ago, Puluosi made a move for more, investing $2.5 million in the La Verne complex to assemble its own lamps, to be branded as Plus Lighting.
 Mr. Qian said he wanted to market more of the Plus brand name, ''because of the profit margins.'' On equipment the company makes for other lighting suppliers, he said, ''we make 20 percent to 30 percent profit margin, but on our own brand name, we can make 60 percent to 70 percent.'' So he is seeking an American partner to help market the Plus brand name.
 Similarly, Jiangsu TongDa, a manufacturer of laundry detergent and other household products in China, set up an operation called Oscar Home Care in Ontario, Calif., five years ago to sell air fresheners at discount store chains in the United States.
 ''We saw air fresheners as products we could ship at low cost to America,'' said Junwu Liu, the chairman of TongDa and the president of Oscar Home Care. The freshener business through Dollar General and other chains has grown to $6 million in sales. And now Mr. Liu is looking for more products to push through TongDa's American distribution network.
 To be sure, China's direct investments in businesses and buildings in the United States are not huge. James Guo, president of The Chinese Daily News in Los Angeles, guessed that it ''would be more than $1.3 billion but less than $10 billion.'' 
 The United States Bureau of Economic Analysis reports that Hong Kong has invested $1.8 billion in the United States, compared with the $252 billion that British companies have poured in or the $177 billion that Japanese companies have put into factories and offices. The State Department has said that Chinese direct investment is minimal, but it seems likely to grow. 
 Jason Chung of the First California Equity Group, betting on that, plans a business center in Santa Ana, Calif., to serve Chinese companies opening operations here. ''We have four and a half acres in Santa Ana,'' Mr. Chung said. ''We can help them get up to value in branding, promotion, recruiting and finance.'' 
 The development of the center will take till 2010 or 2011 and cost about $100 million, Mr. Chung said. He expects investments to come from China and from private equity funds in the United States.
 Financial ties are growing between Chinese communities in California and companies in China. Etech Securities, a Pasadena investment bank and brokerage firm with offices in Beijing and Shanghai, and in Taipei, Taiwan, and Seoul, South Korea, has raised money and floated public stock offerings in the United States for companies in China. 
 The trend of trans-Pacific ventures is likely to be long term. ''Entrepreneurial Chinese companies want to be in the United States,'' said Jinshu Zhang, a Los Angeles lawyer who is opening a Shanghai office for the Greenberg Traurig law firm. ''And Chinese students want to come to American business schools.'' 
 James Gong, who was one of those students when he attended the University of Chicago, said his education gave him ideas for building a business across the sea. ''I went back to China in 1998, and have seen the economy grow,'' Mr. Gong said at the China Global Conference. He founded his own company, the Jinton Group.
 Now, Mr. Gong said, he wants to open an industrial park in Changzhou to help small-to-medium American companies ''get into the expanding Chinese consumer market.'' 
 Robyn Meredith, author of a new book on China and India, ''The Elephant and the Dragon,'' said the market is a growing one. ''The Chinese middle class now numbers 200 million,'' she said, adding: ''And that includes 80 million people who are very well off.'' 
 As debates go on about Chinese exports to the United States, the quieter trends can serve as reminders of the nuanced and evolving relationship between the countries. 
 Entrepreneurial connections are not limited to China. PGP Capital Advisors, a five-year-old Los Angeles investment bank, recently put together a deal in which New York Private Bank and Trust formed a partnership with the golfer Jack Nicklaus. One goal, said Stewart M. Kim, founding partner of PGP, will be to market throughout ''golf-mad Asia.'' The partnership will promote Mr. Nicklaus's services as a golf course designer and his golf equipment. ''Corporations in Korea build their own golf courses,'' said Mr. Kim, citing yet another trend: the growing wealth of the Pacific Rim. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stacy Sun organized a conference promoting partnerships of Chinese and American companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JILL CONNELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BRANDING (87%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); YANGTZE RIVER (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



273 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1610 words

HEADLINE: CARE Turns Down Federal Funds for Food Aid

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: MALELA, Kenya 

 BODY:
CARE, one of the world's biggest charities, is walking away from some $45 million a year in federal financing, saying American food aid is not only plagued with inefficiencies, but also may hurt some of the very poor people it aims to help.
 CARE's decision is focused on the practice of selling tons of often heavily subsidized American farm products in African countries that in some cases, it says, compete with the crops of struggling local farmers. 
 The charity says it will phase out its use of the practice by 2009. But it has already deeply divided the world of food aid and has spurred growing criticism of the practice as Congress considers a new farm bill.
 ''If someone wants to help you, they shouldn't do it by destroying the very thing that they're trying to promote,'' said George Odo, a CARE official who grew disillusioned with the practice while supervising the sale of American wheat and vegetable oil in Nairobi, Kenya's capital. 
 Under the system, the United States government buys the goods from American agribusinesses, ships them overseas, mostly on American-flagged carriers, and then donates them to the aid groups as an indirect form of financing. The groups sell the products on the market in poor countries and use the money to finance their antipoverty programs. It amounts to about $180 million a year.
 Neither the Bush administration nor members of Congress are looking to undo the practice, which has gone on for more than a decade. In fact, some of the nonprofit groups say it has worked well and are pressing for sharp increases in the amount of American food shipped for sale and distribution to support development programs. 
 The Christian charity World Vision and 14 other groups, which call themselves the Alliance for Food Aid, say that CARE is mistaken; they say the system works because it keeps hard currency in poor countries, can help prevent food price spikes in those countries and does not hurt their farmers. Not least, they argue, it also pays for their antipoverty programs.
 But some people active in trying to help Africa's farmers are critical of the practice. Former President Jimmy Carter, whose Atlanta-based Carter Center uses private money to help African farmers be more productive, said in an interview that it was a flawed system that had survived partly because the charities that received money from it defended it. 
 Agribusiness and shipping interest groups have tremendous political influence, but charitable groups are influential, too, Mr. Carter said, because ''they speak from the standpoint of angels.'' 
 Some charities that champion the system bristle at such suggestions. Their allies in Congress say that maritime and agribusiness interests are essential allies for programs to aid the hungry. 
 ''Sure it's self-interest if staying in business to help the hungry is self-interested,'' said Avram E. Guroff, a senior official at ACDI/VOCA, which ranked sixth in such sales last year. ''We're not lining our pockets.''
 But Peter J. Matlon, a Nairobi-based agricultural economist and a managing director of the Rockefeller Foundation, said in an interview that converting American commodities into cash for development was a case of ''the tail wagging the dog,'' with domestic farm policies in the United States shaping hunger-fighting methods abroad.
 The nongovernmental organizations ''have been ignoring this evidence for years that there's a negative impact on the prices farmers receive,'' Mr. Matlon said.. He is involved in an effort by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, financed with an initial $150 million, to increase the productivity of Africa's farmers. 
 The Government Accountability Office, the nonpartisan, investigative arm of Congress, also concluded this year that the system was ''inherently inefficient.'' CARE and Catholic Relief Services -- who rank first and second in money raised through the current system -- say they recover only 70 to 80 percent of what the United States paid for the commodities and shipping.
 But while Catholic Relief Services and Save the Children, which ranked fifth last year in such sales, agree with CARE that the system is inefficient, they also say they will not stop converting American food into money unless Congress replaces the lost revenues with cash. They help poor people with the money, they say. 
 The experiences of Walter Otieno, a grizzled Kenyan farmer in mud-stained pants, illustrate the paradoxes of paying for rural development through sales of American farm goods. 
 Over the years, he had watched 4 of his 12 children die of measles, which is more often fatal for the malnourished. He has had difficulty growing enough to feed his family. ''My children were skinny, and their skin was dull,'' he said.
 Then last year he began growing a small patch of sunflowers on a hill sloping down to Lake Victoria in the village of Malela, with help from a program that CARE finances through the sale of American farm goods here. 
 A CARE extension worker, Rosemary Ogala, taught him and dozens of farmers in his group where to buy sunflower seed, when to plant it, how to space the rows and when to harvest. 
 CARE has also connected them to a ready market: the Kenyan company Bidco Oil Refineries, whose managers say they could more than quintuple the amount of sunflower seed they buy from Kenyan farmers to process into vegetable oil. 
 The profit Mr. Otieno earned from the crop rescued his family from dire poverty. Now, with his new earnings, he is able to play with his sons and daughters, who are plump on eggs and milk, at the family's general store, a tiny shack stocked with goods financed by the sunflower sales. 
 The question is whether small-scale sunflower farmers like Mr. Otieno would have done better if nonprofit groups had not sold tons of American crude soybean oil, a competing product, to the same Kenyan company that purchased Mr. Otieno's meager crop. CARE and some other experts say the answer is a clear yes.
 In 2003, Bidco bought almost 9,000 metric tons of crude soybean oil sold to the United States by Bunge, the agribusiness giant. Altogether that year, Bunge sold the United States 15,180 metric tons of oil for resale by the nonprofits in Kenya. A metric ton equals 1,000 kilograms, or 2,204.62 pounds.
 American law requires aid groups to establish that such sales will not discourage production by local farmers, but some critics say it is a conflict of interest to ask the nonprofits to select experts to make this determination.
 In this case, the nonprofits hired a consultant who advised them in 2003 that they could safely sell up to 38,000 metric tons of vegetable oil in Kenya, which mostly depends on imports. That amount, about 10 percent of the country's consumption, was ''negligible,'' he said. 
 But Mr. Odo of CARE disagreed, saying in a memo that the importation from the United States ''reduces the growth in the local market.'' 
 Ultimately, CARE's decision to phase out such sales evolved from a senior manager's change of heart. Daniel G. Maxwell, a professor of nutrition at Tufts University, was a food security adviser for CARE in Nairobi who saw sales of American food as an imperfect, but useful way to raise money.
 He knew firsthand, however, how risky it was to manage projects financed in fluctuating commodities markets. When prices sank, CARE had too little money and was sometimes forced to lay off workers. Mr. Maxwell said he also strongly suspected that buyers had offered too little for the farm goods, knowing they were dealing with aid workers who were novices in commodities trading.
 As he and Christopher B. Barrett, an agricultural economist at Cornell University, researched a book, ''Food Aid After Fifty Years,'' his doubts deepened. 
 ''Not only was it a pain the neck,'' he said, but there were possible serious effects ''that would be damaging to farmers and trade.''
 In 2004, Mr. Maxwell and Mr. Barrett made the case against the practice at CARE headquarters in Atlanta. They recalled that the senior vice president, Patrick Carey, who has since died, cautioned them that leaving the system would be like ''an act of partial suicide'' for the nonprofits. Nonetheless, CARE committed to the shift the following year.
 CARE says it will try to raise money to replace the lost revenues from philanthropies and other donors, and by making its own aid programs profitable.
 One of those programs could be seen in action one recent afternoon in the Kenyan village of Poche. CARE has helped local women bypass local middlemen to sell pineapples at better prices in Nairobi's big supermarkets, 10 hours away by road.
 One woman, Doreen Amimo, a 52-year-old grandmother, has seen her weekly earnings rise to $18 from $11. She can now afford to feed and clothe an orphaned niece and nephew. 
 ''And I never lack sugar in the house,'' she said, ''and we can have tea and milk every morning!''
 These farmers are selling their fruit to a small company, Vegcare, that CARE and a Kenyan company started with an investment of $170,000 in 2005. Vegcare advises farmers on how to grow pineapples that meet supermarket standards, buys them and trucks them to a wholesaler in Nairobi that supplies Nakumatt, a Kenyan supermarket chain.
 CARE's idea is that a profitable business is more likely than a charitable venture to survive when foreign aid runs out. 
 ''What's happened to humanitarian organizations over the years is that a lot of us have become contractors on behalf of the government,'' said Mr. Odo of CARE. ''That's sad but true. It compromised our ability to speak up when things went wrong.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers at the port of Mombasa, Kenya, shoveling wheat from Texas being unloaded from the cargo hold of an American ship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVELYN HOCKSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
Walter Otieno, a Kenyan farmer, with his children in the small store he has been able to finance from his sunflower sales.
 American wheat being loaded onto trucks in Mombasa, Kenya. The wheat, from Texas, will be sold by nonprofit organizations. George Otieno is a farmer in western Kenya who has been shown how to bypass middlemen to sell his pineapples. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVELYN HOCKSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); CHARITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (63%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (72%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) KENYA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



274 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Virus Spreading Alarm and Deadly Pig Disease in China

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: CHENGDU, China, Aug. 9 

 BODY:
A highly infectious swine virus is sweeping China's pig population, driving up pork prices and creating fears of a global pandemic among domesticated pigs. 
 Animal virus experts say Chinese authorities are playing down the gravity and spread of the disease.
 So far, the mysterious virus -- believed to cause an unusually deadly form of an infection known as blue-ear pig disease -- has spread to 25 of this country's 33 provinces and regions, prompting a pork shortage and the strongest inflation in China in a decade.
 More than that, China's past lack of transparency -- particularly over what became the SARS epidemic -- has created global concern.
 ''They haven't really explained what this virus is,'' says Federico A. Zuckermann, a professor of immunology at the University of Illinois College of Veterinary Medicine. ''This is like SARS. They haven't sent samples to any international body. This is really irresponsible of China. This thing could get out and affect everyone.'' 
 There are no clear indications that blue-ear disease -- if that is what this disease is -- poses a threat to human health.
 Though the Chinese government acknowledges that the current virus has devastated pig stocks in coastal and southern areas, it has not admitted what experts say is clear: the virus is rapidly moving inland and westward, to areas such as this one in Sichuan Province, China's largest pork-producing region.
 ''This disease is like a wind that swept in and passed from village to village,'' said Ding Shurong, a 45-year-old farmer in a village near here who lost two-thirds of his pigs . ''I've never seen anything like it. No family was left untouched.'' 
 No one knows for sure how many of this country's 500 million pigs have been infected. The government says officially that about 165,000 pigs have contracted the virus this year. But in a country that, on average, loses 25 million pigs a year to disease, few believe the figures. In part, the skepticism comes from the fact that pork prices have skyrocketed 85 percent in the last year -- an increase that, absent other factors, suggests the losses from disease are more widespread than Beijing admits.
 And there are other signs. Field experts are reporting widespread disease outbreaks. Fear among pig farmers that their livestock will contract the disease has led to panic selling. And the government and media here have issued alarming reports that farmers are selling diseased or infected pigs to illegal slaughterhouses, which could pose food safety problems.
 International health experts are already calling this one of the worst disease outbreaks ever to hit Asia's livestock industry, and they fear the fast-mutating pathogens could spread to neighboring countries, igniting a worldwide epidemic that could affect pork supplies everywhere.
 A similar virus has already been detected in neighboring Vietnam and Myanmar, and health experts are trying to determine if it came from China.
 Health experts say China has declined to send tissue samples to testing labs outside the country for independent verification by a lab affiliated with the World Organization for Animal Health in Paris.
 The Chinese government says that it has reported the disease to international health bodies and insists that the disease is under control and that a vaccine has been developed and distributed.
 But, some scientists say there is no truly effective vaccine against blue-ear pig disease (which is also known as porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome); other experts say they are not even certain that the blue-ear virus is the one that is spreading. 
 Scientists who track blue-ear pig disease are puzzled because the disease is generally not so deadly.
 ''This virus generally makes them ill but on its own it doesn't cause a lot of deaths,'' said Steven McOrist, a professor of pig medicines at the University of Nottingham in England. ''The evidence they put up so far is not conclusive.''
 If it is blue-ear pig disease, which has infected most parts of the world, including the United States, it may be a new and more virulent strain.
 ''This is more severe than we've seen elsewhere,'' said Derek Armstrong, a senior veterinary scientist at the Meat and Livestock Commission in Britain. ''It may be a co-infection of pigs with other things.''
 The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization is now pressing China to share its research and tissue samples.
 ''I've asked my two vets in Beijing to work with the government and get some of those samples out,'' said Juan Lubroth, head of infectious disease at the F.A.O., noting that China has reported its own findings on the disease. ''Our experience has shown us that working with carrots is better than working with sticks.''
 Government scientists themselves said that last year the virus affected two millions pigs and killed 400,000. Here in Sichuan province, home to some 55 million pigs and one of the world's most densely populated pig breeding areas, there is devastation. Many pig farmers say that what appears to be the blue-ear virus swept through this region in June and July, killing thousands of pigs.
 ''First they refused to eat, then they got high fever,'' said Zhao Yanjun, 32, who lost all but 5 of his 150 pigs, just months after building a modern barn in Heishi village, about an hour's drive southwest of Chengdu. ''Now, there's nothing left.''
 Liu Minghong, a 38-year-old farmer, said, ''Most of my pigs got hit in June and July -- 70 of them died.'' sitting in a dusty house on the edge of his property, He pulled out a notepad that cataloged the demise of his pigs. 
 ''I sold a lot out of panic,'' he says. 
 Pig farmers who did not sell watched their pigs succumb to a disease that ate away at their insides in a matter of weeks, often turning the pig's ear blue. In Mr. Liu's barn, he pointed to one pig that was little more than a skeleton, shivering in a corner, struggling for life.
 Now, slaughterhouses here go wanting.
 ''Last year we slaughtered 1,000 pigs a day; now we're doing 100,'' said Yuan Zi, a manager at the Qiyuan Meal slaughterhouse near the city of Qionglai. ''We've laid off nearly half the staff.''
 Officials in Beijing worry that widespread pork shortages and soaring food prices could prompt panic, unrest or inflation, undermining a sizzling economy.
 Trying to contain the damage, the government has announced a series of emergency measures, offering aid, incentives and free vaccines to farmers. 
 But the government has also warned against price gouging, and vowed to crack down on farmers selling diseased pigs, or injecting a pig with water to bolster its selling weight.
 Still, many here say the problem is that pigs are simply in short supply, and it may take months if not a year or two to restock supplies, assuming the disease does not linger, as some scientists say it generally does.
 Many experts, meanwhile, worry that China, which the F.A.O. says is the fourth-largest exporter of live and slaughtered hogs, could already be exporting the disease.
 ''This is already considered to be a threat to the global industry,'' said Trevor Drew, head of virology at the Veterinary Laboratories Agency in Weybridge, in southeast England. ''It would be naive to think we could contain this virus.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Liu Minghong, a farmer in Sichuan Province, said he lost 70 pigs to a virulent swine disease, leaving him with just a few. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1)
Blue-ear pig disease has devastated the Chinese swine stock, leaving farmers like Xiong Yuqun, above, with a bleak outlook.
 In Gu Yi, a village in Sichuan Province, a veterinarian's banner claims he can cure blue-ear disease, but the virus still spreads. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RYAN PYLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIRUSES (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); PORK (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); ANIMALS (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (78%); SARS (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (77%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (73%); IMMUNOLOGY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); EPIDEMICS (58%); FOOD SAFETY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); SICHUAN, CHINA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



275 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: 2 Ratings Services Downgrade Nestle

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Nestle, one of the world's largest food companies, was stripped of its AAA rating yesterday by Fitch Ratings and Moody's Investors Service. 
 Nestle was cut to AA+ by Fitch and to Aa1 by Moody's after the company said it planned to repurchase almost $21 billion of stock, its biggest share buyback. The downgrading leaves only Johnson & Johnson, Toyota Motor and Exxon Mobil holding AAA ratings from Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings.
 ''It's the end of an era,'' said Rob Orman, a credit analyst at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group in London. He expects S.& P. to follow suit and cut the rating of Nestle, which is based in Switzerland.
 The number of borrowers with the top rankings, which Moody's calls ''gilt edged,'' has dwindled as companies sacrifice credit quality to bolster their share prices. American companies bought back $655 billion of shares in 2006 and have announced more than $517 billion of buybacks this year, according to Birinyi Associates, a research firm in Westport, Conn.
 Nestle's shares rose the most in more than five years on the buyback plan and its report that first-half profit was higher than estimated. It reported an 18 percent increase in first-half net profit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (94%); CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); FOOD INDUSTRY (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (79%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); NESTLE SA (90%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (70%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%); NESN (SWX) (90%); JNJ (NYSE) (72%); RBS (NYSE) (70%); RBS (LSE) (70%); RBS (AMS) (70%); TYT (LSE) (57%); TM (NYSE) (57%); 7203 (TSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



276 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: After Sales Setback, Amgen Moves to Cut Jobs and Capital Expenses

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 15 

 BODY:
The biotechnology giant Amgen announced the first major layoffs in its heretofore charmed history Wednesday as it sought to cope with sliding sales of the anemia drug Aranesp, its biggest selling product. 
 The company said it would cut its work force by 2,200 to 2,600 people, or about 12 to 14 percent. It also said that it would reduce its planned capital expenses by $1.9 billion over two years, close certain production operations and prune a research and development organization that has mushroomed in the last few years. 
 ''We are a company and a management group that faces reality and deals with it, and we have a new reality to face today compared to when we planned this year,'' Kevin W. Sharer, Amgen's chief executive, told analysts and investors in a conference call Wednesday afternoon. 
 The new reality is that sales of Aranesp and an older anemia drug, Epogen, are being buffeted by recent findings suggesting that overuse can worsen cancer, cause blood clots or heart attacks and perhaps hasten death. 
 Sales of Aranesp fell 10 percent in the second quarter worldwide and 19 percent in the United States. But Amgen executives said sales could fall much further after a decision by Medicare in late July that would drastically curtail reimbursement for Aranesp when used to treat anemia in cancer patients. 
 Amgen had already stopped hiring and put off some factory construction this year. But the recent Medicare decision helped bring about the deeper cutbacks. 
 The layoffs would be a serious shock to the company, which was founded in 1980 and has experienced a virtually continuous rise in sales and profit since its first product, Epogen, reached the market in 1989. 
 Amgen is the world's largest biotechnology company by sales, with revenue of $14.3 billion last year. The anemia drugs counted for nearly half of that. Amgen officials said the moves would save $1.0 billion to $1.3 billion next year. 
 Despite the cuts, Amgen said its earnings for this year would fall below its previous expectation of $4.28 a share. The new projections are for $4.13 to $4.23 a share. Last year the company earned $3.90 a share. 
 Amgen's shares fell 73 cents, or 1.42 percent, to $50.59, in regular trading and dropped an additional 29 cents after hours. 
 ''This is a company that's focused on the investor here,'' said Kurt von Emster, portfolio manager of the MPM BioEquities Fund. ''Downsizing to 2006 employee levels is sort of necessitated by the revenue predicament they are in.'' 
 Amgen executives said the new Medicare policy would force huge restrictions on use of Aranesp and force doctors to change how they practice. Doctors and patient groups are protesting the decision, but it is not clear that Medicare will change it. 
 But even if the decision were reversed, Amgen faces other pressures, including the possible entry of Roche into the anemia drug market later this year. And despite Amgen's use of stock buybacks and now cost cuts to raise earnings, some investors are still looking to see whether the company can bring big new drugs to market. 
 Mr. Sharer, who took over as chief executive in 2000, vastly increased the investment in research and development. Last year the company spent $3.2 billion in that area, up about 40 percent from the year before and equal to about 23 percent of company sales, a high level for a pharmaceutical company. 
 But it is as yet uncertain whether the bet will pay off. In the overhaul, Amgen will try to focus on the most promising prospects. Executives said the company might try to find partners to help develop certain drugs in its pipeline and might also sell off the rights to some of the company's smaller-selling drugs that are already on the market. 
 The company will aim for research and development spending to be 20 percent of sales. 
 The executives said most of the job cuts would come in manufacturing and research and development rather than in the sales force, which is relatively small compared with other pharmaceutical companies. The cuts will come from a combination of voluntary buyouts and layoffs. 
 The job reduction is among the largest ever in the biotechnology business. By percentage of employees, it is larger than cutbacks announced recently by Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca. Those companies in part faced competition to big-selling drugs from generic drug companies, something Amgen is only starting to face in a limited way. 
 The job losses will be a blow to Thousand Oaks, the Los Angeles suburb where Amgen is based and which has prospered with the company. 
 ''Amgen is the highest-paying job source in the county,'' said Bill Watkins, executive director of the Economic Forecast Project at the University of California, Santa Barbara, referring to Ventura County, in which Thousand Oaks is located. ''We can tell what year they've had good bonuses.'' 
 Amgen employees in Thousand Oaks might not be able to find jobs in the biotechnology industry without moving. The Los Angeles area does not have the same thriving biotechnology community as San Francisco and San Diego. 
 In San Francisco and San Diego, executives frequently leave established companies, like the industry pioneer Genentech, to start new ventures. But there are virtually no such spinoffs from Amgen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); ANEMIA (91%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); MEDICARE (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CANCER (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: AMGEN INC (98%)

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (98%)

PERSON: KEVIN W SHARER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



277 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: More Jitters Over Credit; Markets Fall

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply late yesterday afternoon, and one broad market index turned negative for the year as investors again questioned the economy's ability to withstand financial shocks and higher borrowing costs.
 Early in the day, an analyst at Merrill Lynch who just days ago wrote approvingly of Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest and one of its most respected mortgage lenders, put a sell rating on the stock, speculating that the company could be forced to seek bankruptcy protection if it could not raise money from banks and investors.
 And in another sign that a class of short-term debt has seized up because of ties to the mortgage market, KKR Financial Holdings, an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, the buyout firm, said it could potentially lose up to $290 million in its investments because investor faith in top-quality mortgages has been shaken.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.4 percent for the day and is down 0.8 percent for the year. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 167.45 points, or 1.3 percent, trading below 13,000 for the first time since April and four weeks after it topped 14,000. It is up 3.2 percent for the year. Both indexes were positive for much of the day until about 2:45 p.m., when they fell. 
 Asian markets declined today in morning trading, with Japan's Nikkei 225 stock index down 2.6 percent by midday and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong down 3.1 percent. 
 ''Investors are now starting to question economic projections, stock market projections and public officials,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's Equity Research. ''They are questioning American consumers' continuing ability to spend beyond their means.''
 Early in the day, investors seemed to react positively to reports that suggested inflation was ebbing while manufacturing remained strong last month. The Federal Reserve also injected $7 billion into the financial markets by lending against securities.
 But that was not enough. 
 Mr. Stovall said the decline late in the day suggested that many traders did not feel comfortable holding certain positions overnight because they lacked confidence about what would happen in overseas markets or at the start of trading today.
 As they have been for much of the last four weeks, stocks were driven by grim news from the credit markets. 
 KKR Financial said it lost $40 million on the sale of $5.1 billion in mortgage securities and had another $5.8 billion in bonds to try to sell, which could result in the loss of another $250 million. Shares in KKR Financial, which went public in June 2005, fell 31 percent, to $10.52; the stock is down more than 60 percent for the year.
 The company restructured from a real estate investment trust to a limited liability company in May. It finances most of those securities through asset-backed commercial paper vehicles that were downgraded last night by the rating agency Fitch from its highest level to junk grade because of the decline in value of the underlying assets.
 The company said it would no longer invest in residential real estate and must decide what to do with the remaining portfolio of mortgage-backed securities. 
 In a conference call last evening, Saturnino S. Fanlo, founding partner and chief executive of KKR Financial, forcefully offered specifics about the company's financial condition, arguing that the slide in its stock price was an extreme overreaction. After hours, the stock made up some of its losses and was trading at $11.89.
 ''Our maximum exposure totals $200 million, or 10 percent of our total capital,'' Mr. Fanlo said, pointing out that the firm's liquidity of $452 million ''provides us with more than enough liquidity to cover any contingent liabilities.'' 
 On the call, analysts and shareholders cheered him on, congratulating him for ''getting out ahead of the crisis,'' as one analyst said, and one shareholder vowed to buy more stock. In a weary voice, Mr. Fanlo noted that executives from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, including Henry Kravis and George Roberts, had been working closely with him to get through the ''unprecedented'' conditions the company faced. 
 He said he had been through numerous financial crises ''and this is the most disturbing liquidity crisis, with real impact throughout the economy if it does not rectify.'' 
 Before KKR Financial made its announcement, Kenneth Bruce, an analyst with Merrill Lynch, who affirmed his buy rating on Countrywide shares on Monday at a target price of $36, changed his view to sell and removed his target price. Shares of Countrywide fell 13 percent, to $21.29, and are down nearly 50 percent for the year.
 Countrywide and most other mortgage lenders rely heavily on borrowing from banks, brokerage firms and bond investors to make loans that they quickly turn around and sell to investors through mortgage securities. In his report, Mr. Bruce said he had previously underestimated the risks to Countrywide. 
 ''If enough financial pressure is placed on CFC or if the market loses confidence in its ability to function properly then the model can break, leading to an effective insolvency,'' Mr. Bruce said in his note, referring to the company by its stock ticker symbol. ''If liquidations do occur in a weak market, then it is possible for CFC to go bankrupt.''
 Mr. Bruce declined to comment through a spokeswoman, Carrie Gray. A Countrywide spokesman, Rick Simon, had no comment. 
 At the end of June, Countrywide had access to $186.5 billion in bank loans and other sources of funding, according to CreditSights, a research firm in New York. The company, based in Calabasas, Calif., wrote $245 billion in home loans in the first six months, up 13 percent from the period last year and almost one and half times the figure for its closest rival, Wells Fargo, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. Countrywide has hired hundreds of sales representatives from failing competitors in recent months.
 One analyst suggested that the market would not recover until more funds and banks detailed their exposures to mortgage securities and other debt acquired during the recent credit boom.
 ''The more funds that come to confession the better it is,'' said Douglas M. Peta, chief market strategist at J. W. Seligman & Company. ''Once all this stuff is out, all the analysts and the people with the sharp pencils can figure out how bad it is and they can put prices to it.''
 A more positive development, from Coventree, a Canadian financial services firm, had only a marginal impact on stocks. Coventree said it had sold $558 million of a kind of short-term debt known as commercial paper, though it was still having trouble with another $111 million in debt. 
 In an indication that debt investors are worried that problems with mortgages will infect all aspects of the market, the price of three-month Treasury bills spiked yesterday. The yields on those bills, which move in the opposite direction from the price, fell to about 4 percent, from 4.65 percent on Tuesday.
 Investors are saying, ''I want only the highest credit quality, where the principal is guaranteed by the Treasury,'' said Brian J. Carlin, head of fixed-income trading at JPMorgan Private Bank.
 The S.& P. ended the day at 1,406.70; the Dow closed at 12,861.47; and the Nasdaq composite fell 40.29 points, or 1.6 percent, to 2,458.83. The 10-year Treasury note was little changed, at 100 6/32, and its yield was also little changed at 4.72 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: ''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); KKR & CO LP (70%); KKR FINANCIAL HOLDINGS LLC (56%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (70%); KFN (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



278 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Bridge Failure Can't Fend Off Usual Politics

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Libby Sander contributed reporting from Chicago.

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Aug. 15 

 BODY:
It took all of two weeks for the political unity brought on by a deadly bridge collapse here to fall apart. 
 Even as divers continued searching the Mississippi River on Wednesday for four people missing since the busy Interstate 35W bridge fell on Aug. 1, political leaders were dueling over plans for a replacement span.
 The battle lines extended from disputed plans for light rail to suggestions that Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Republican, was unnecessarily rushing reconstruction to impress Republican Party leaders, who will hold their presidential convention in the Twin Cities in September 2008. Mr. Pawlenty says such talk is nonsense. 
 ''There's a deep sense of loss for people all over Minnesota,'' said Lawrence R. Jacobs, the director of the Center for the Study of Politics and Governance at the University of Minnesota. ''And for them, to see kind of this new -- and old -- politics flare up like this is unseemly.'' 
 Mr. Pawlenty and his State Department of Transportation have already unveiled broad plans for the new bridge, announcing the names of five possible contractors, and urging that it be open in record time, by the end of next year. 
 But R. T. Rybak, a Democrat who is mayor of Minneapolis; some Democratic leaders in the State Legislature; and members of the Minneapolis City Council have been loudly critical, questioning the need -- and safety, given everything -- of rushing to build a bridge.
 Some called for provisions to allow light rail along the new span. Some called for a memorial for the victims. Mostly, they demanded: Why the hurry? 
 In a place where politics is usually more civil than in many other big cities, everyone involved seems to wish to play down a rift. 
 Still, Mr. Pawlenty's fiercest critics said they wondered whether the governor was hoping to turn attention toward a new bridge in the coming months and away from an investigation into why the old bridge failed and whether there were signs missed. Some suggested that Mr. Pawlenty hoped to show progress on a new bridge when the Republicans arrive for the convention.
 Minnesota is considered a swing state in presidential elections, and some Republicans here have speculated that Mr. Pawlenty might be running-mate material. 
 ''Politics isn't rocket science, you know,'' said Steve Murphy, a state senator and Democratic leader of the Transportation Committee. ''Quite frankly, there's no reason to rush headlong into building this bridge.''
 Mr. Pawlenty sharply denied any notion that he was racing to build a bridge to enhance his image when he plays host to his party in 2008. ''That's silly,'' he said Wednesday, noting that even with an expedited construction schedule, the bridge would not be complete until after the convention.
 ''That is no factor in how and when this will be built,'' Mr. Pawlenty said.
 Instead, he said, state officials are hurrying to start work on the bridge, expected to cost as much as $250 million and to span 10 lanes (two more than the old bridge had), because of the economic damage happening each day without the bridge in this city's downtown. He said his economic experts have pegged the damage at $400,000 a day in lost work, extra fuel used and other costs. 
 ''The bridge being out is a major economic and traffic disruption for our region and for our state,'' the governor said. Building a bridge ''correctly and quickly'' are not mutually exclusive, he said.
 The days immediately after the bridge collapse brought political harmony here. Republicans and Democrats toured the wreckage together; they met with grieving families. And Mr. Pawlenty, who vetoed a proposed increase in the gasoline tax as recently as May, said he would reconsider such an increase if a special legislative session was called.
 But as the state's bridge rebuilding plans began filtering out this week, some officials began voicing doubt. Lawmakers in St. Paul held a special hearing on Wednesday, quizzing Department of Transportation officials on the plans. The Minneapolis City Council began drawing up a ''statement of principles'' about the new bridge and what it did -- and did not -- want.
 ''This is too fast,'' Mayor Rybak said, despite his agreement with the governor's concern about the traffic snarl that has come with the loss of a bridge that carried 140,000 drivers to and from this city's center each day.
 ''There's a significant problem in not having a bridge, but there will be a more significant problem if we don't do this bridge right,'' Mr. Rybak said. ''If we rush to judgment and put up a bridge without asking the right questions, we will be regretting this decision for decades.''
 The ringing and clanging of this city's one light rail line can be heard through the open window in Mr. Rybak's third-floor office at City Hall. (''Music to my ears,'' he says.) One of Mr. Rybak's main wishes is that the bridge be built with enough reinforcement to accommodate the possibility of such a rail line someday. 
 The financial tug between road projects and mass transit projects has long played out in Minnesota, often pitting the state's biggest cities against the outlying counties. State officials initially said that federal financing for the bridge could not be spent to build a significantly different, larger or changed bridge, with a rail line, for instance. 
 But on Wednesday, Mr. Pawlenty said he was ''working on all'' of the concerns brought forward, including looking at the possibility of a bridge that might someday carry a light rail. 
 There was consensus, he said, that there should be a memorial, either on the bridge or somewhere else. ''I've already slowed things down,'' Mr. Pawlenty said, adding that much of the talk of discord over the bridge had been overblown.
 For some here, nonetheless, debate of any sort over a future bridge comes impossibly soon. 
 Divers, sometimes fighting strong currents and other times pounding rain, were working around the clock in the Mississippi in search of four people still missing. Nine bodies have been found so far. The divers were to enter their third week of searching on Thursday, while families waited on.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An artist's rendition of a 10-lane bridge that would replace the bridge that collapsed on Aug. 1
some want a light rail, too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MINNESOTA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Amy Blumenshine of Minneapolis attended a meeting on new bridge plans at the State Office Building in St. Paul yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG LASSIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); MAYORS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



279 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: First Premier Bank to Pay Penalty

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 15 

 BODY:
New York consumers will get as much as $4.5 million in refunds from a South Dakota bank under a settlement of accusations that it used deceptive and illegal tactics to market credit cards to people with poor credit ratings. 
 The New York attorney general's office said Wednesday that the bank, First Premier Bank, would also pay a $100,000 civil penalty and $5,000 in costs, and would change the way it markets and charges for credit cards.
 The bank acknowledged the settlement but contested Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo's description of its business practices. The bank said it expected few claims to be filed against the refund pool because its ''policy already is to offer a full refund of all fees upon request to customers who are not satisfied with the credit card.''
 Any of the $4.5 million not paid to consumers will be kept by the state to cover the costs of the investigation, according to the settlement agreement.
 The investigation was prompted by complaints from consumers who had responded to offers for a card with a $2,000 credit limit, a 9.9 percent fixed interest rate and no processing fee.
 ''In reality, most consumers received a $250-$300 credit line at a 9.9 percent interest rate that could more than double without notice,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement. ''Even before consumers had a chance to activate or use their credit card, First Premier billed $178 upfront fees for processing the credit card application.''
 The processing fee was followed by a variety of other hidden costs that drove up consumers' balances from $20 to $400 in a matter of months, the attorney general's office said.
 First Premier and Premier Bankcard operate under a holding company, the United National Corporation in Sioux Falls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); LITIGATION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

COMPANY: FULTON FINANCIAL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (58%)

TICKER: FULT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (59%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



280 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Aging at Home, and With Dignity

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''A Grass-Roots Effort to Grow Old at Home'' (front page, Aug. 14) should be a wake-up call to baby boomers. The thought of struggling to remain in one's beloved home and neighborhood because of frailty, danger and isolation of old age seems unthinkable. 
 Life is what happens to you while you're making other plans. As a financial services representative, I am frequently exploring the alternative methods to assure dignity in the future for my clients. 
 The movement nationwide to create nonprofit corporations to collect dues and provide transportation, home repair, companionship, security and other services to meet the needs of the aging and ensure that they can stay in their homes seems sensible. If 9 out of 10 Americans over the age of 60 wish to live out their lives in familiar surroundings, why shouldn't their prayers be answered?
 The recent rash of foreclosures demonstrates the pain of upheaval. We shouldn't subject the aging to the added burden of dislocation after they worked so hard to provide security for themselves. Perhaps long-term health care insurance policies can provide funds for this grass-roots community to make neighborhoods comfortable places to grow. Steven A. Ludsin
 East Hampton, N.Y., Aug. 14, 2007
 To the Editor:
 The violent collision of the desire to age in place and the financial realities of long-term care are not unique to the wealthy. This collision occurs every day, in every town, and it does not discriminate by race, gender or socioeconomic class. The desire to remain independent and self-determining with dignity is a basic human goal. I have never met anyone who strives to be dependent on others and to have his or her dignity stripped away. 
 Statements like ''only the destitute are protected in old age'' do not begin to highlight our abandonment of the generation that built this country. Medicare is supposed to provide retirement coverage; most seniors assume that Medicare will cover all of their needs as they age; as the article points out, it does not. 
 Up until Feb. 8, 2006, a primary residence was an exempt asset under the Medicaid rules; this offered a safety net for seniors who were house rich and cash or income poor. 
 Now that senior will be forced to seek a mortgage or reverse mortgage to make ends meet, and only after he has reduced the equity in his home to the required limits will the Medicaid system provide benefits. 
 This article is an excellent example of the middle class being squeezed out and forgotten. The middle class do not qualify for Medicaid and cannot afford the existing and emerging options to age in place. We really should be ashamed of ourselves. Wendy H. Sheinberg
 Garden City, N.Y., Aug. 14, 2007
 The writer is a certified elder law attorney.
 To the Editor:
 The growth of ''self-help communities'' is one creative and innovative step toward delaying or averting institutionalization for seniors who wish to age in place. But since this option is available only to seniors who have the means and the community connections to live in such an environment, the question remains: how we can make similar opportunities available to older people living on a lower economic spectrum?
 One solution is to link these seniors with social service agencies that provide case management, health and wellness services, and cultural programs that combat social isolation. Such agencies can also provide volunteer-based friendly visiting programs that help ease isolation for frail elders who live alone. 
 Our nation would be wise to finance agencies that provide critical services to those who cannot afford self-help communities. Failing to do so would be an injustice to them and perhaps, one day, to us. Vivian Fenster Ehrlich
 New York, Aug. 14, 2007
 The writer is executive director of Dorot, a nonprofit agency that provides programs and services to more than 10,000 frail homebound and homeless New Yorkers.
 To the Editor:
 I like the model of self-help communities formed by groups of elderly or soon-to-be elderly to strengthen their ability to remain in their homes. But it makes me wonder about the next generation of elderly and the ''communities'' in which they might find themselves at the twilight of life.
 Suburban and exurban sprawling developments made up of cookie-cutter subdivisions are entirely reliant on residents' owning, and being able to drive, their own cars. Being without a car, or a license to drive, means being trapped on a cul-de-sac, miles from any stores or services, often without even a sidewalk on which to walk. 
 Even with a community of like-minded people, this model of residential development places huge challenges in front of an aging population. Karen Bassler
 Madison, Wis., Aug. 14, 2007

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NORA KRUG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AGING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (86%); MEDICARE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%); WRITERS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (71%); MEDICAID (71%); ELDER LAW (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (69%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (66%); INSURANCE POLICIES (66%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



281 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FORT LAUDERDALE JOURNAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: A Mayor Stands by His Comments, And Gay Advocates Stand Against Him

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Aug. 15 

 BODY:
The uproar began last month, when Mayor Jim Naugle said that installing a single-occupancy restroom on a local beach could deter ''homosexual activity.''
 Mr. Naugle, a six-term mayor in this city that draws legions of gay tourists and residents, went on to tell a local newspaper that he preferred the word ''homosexual'' to ''gay'' because he believed many gay people were ''unhappy.'' Soon after, he criticized a plan to house a private gay book collection in a public library because it contained pornography.
 Outraged local residents called for his resignation, started a ''Flush Naugle'' campaign and organized a protest rally that brought hundreds to City Hall in late July, a time of year when South Florida usually verges on comatose. That day, Mr. Naugle announced that he would issue an apology. 
 And he did -- to ''the children and parents of our community,'' for not being aware of ''how serious the problem was of the sexual activity that's taking place in bathrooms and public places and parks.'' He questioned whether Broward County should continue telling tourists to ''come on down,'' citing 2004 statistics that found it led the nation in new AIDS cases.
 Outspoken gay residents say Mr. Naugle's comments have prompted more activism and solidarity than this city of 185,000 has seen in years. A new group, Unite Fort Lauderdale, has formed to ''reclaim the respect and dignity of our citizens and the reputation of the city of Fort Lauderdale,'' according to its Web site. 
 About 125 people attended the group's first meeting Tuesday, said Dean Trantalis, a former city commissioner who is openly gay. ''It wasn't a hard sell,'' Mr. Trantalis said. ''It was almost as if people were waiting for this moment to come together and say, 'We are a diverse and yet united people, and we are not going to stand for the bigotry and isolated point of view of this mayor.' ''
 The group intends to cultivate candidates to replace Mr. Naugle, 53, who will leave office in 2009 because of term limits approved in 2000. A neighboring city, Wilton Manors, has a majority-gay commission and another, Oakland Park, has an openly gay mayor. And the metropolitan region anchored by Fort Lauderdale has a higher concentration of same-sex couple households than any other city on the East Coast, according to ''The Gay and Lesbian Atlas,'' published in 2004.
 Michael Albetta, president of the Florida Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Democratic Caucus, said that Mr. Naugle had rankled gay residents before, but that they had not actively sought a more inclusive mayor until now. 
 ''Shame on us,'' Mr. Albetta said. ''We're definitely going to be more cognizant of which candidates are going to run for mayor next time.''
 In an interview, Mr. Naugle -- who described himself as ''extremely'' conservative despite being a registered Democrat, like half the city's registered voters -- said he had received 4,000 e-mail messages in recent weeks, mostly supportive. A ''climate of permissiveness'' has developed in the city, he said, similar to when Fort Lauderdale was a magnet for rowdy spring breakers several decades ago. 
 ''It has become kind of like the days of spring break,'' he said, ''when we ended up clamping down because people were jumping off balconies and other things. We are kind of going in that direction with the gay tourism.''
 The city has many gay bars, guesthouses and other businesses, but its gay social scene is generally more spread out and laid back that of Miami, about 30 miles to the south.
 Gay newspapers and blogs around the country have blasted Fort Lauderdale in recent weeks; The Bay Area Reporter in San Francisco even urged gay tourists to boycott the city. 
 ''There's a tidal wave that's happening out there,'' Mr. Albetta said, ''and people don't want to come down and spend their money in Fort Lauderdale.''
 Last week, the Greater Fort Lauderdale Convention and Visitors Bureau and the Broward County Commission sent a letter to gay groups and meeting planners who have events scheduled here in the coming year. It describes the region as ''a warmly welcoming destination that is safe, unbiased and gay friendly.'' The bureau estimates that 950,000 gay tourists contribute $1.2 billion a year to the local economy.
 ''I'm concerned about the $1 billion,'' Mr. Naugle said in the interview, ''but I'm more concerned about protection of parks for our kids and saving lives.''
 He said the yachting and boating industry was more lucrative for Fort Lauderdale than tourism was. But he also said he welcomed gay tourists and residents, adding, ''I have longtime friends in the homosexual community.'' 
 Mr. Naugle said that only four people had been arrested since 2005 on charges of having sex in public restrooms, but that such arrests were somewhat more common in city parks. He encouraged residents to call the police if they spot ''homosexual activity'' in public places, he said, adding that an arrest was made recently across from a Little League ball field. 
 ''Frankly, people have been complacent with all this inclusiveness, political correctness,'' Mr. Naugle said. ''Our goal is to change behavior.''
 He said that while he once considered running for Congress, his current plan is to return to real estate, his longtime profession, and maybe work part-time as the host of a talk-radio program. 
 ''I wouldn't say never,'' Mr. Naugle said of running for higher office, ''but I don't have plans to run for anything other than a great dad and provider.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Jim Naugle says he is battling a ''climate of permissiveness'' in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. His recent remarks have led to protests by local gay advocates and calls for a tourism boycott. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRITTANY WALLMAN/SOUTH FLORIDA SUN-SENTINEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); MAYORS (91%); BEACHES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); CITIES (78%); CAUCUSES (75%); PORNOGRAPHY (75%); AIDS & HIV (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); LIBRARIES (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); WEB SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



282 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Establishment Threads in a Radical Fringe

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

DATELINE: EDINBURGH 

 BODY:
If farce is tragedy speeded up, as has been said, Enda Walsh's ferociously entertaining new play might be called a drama in three gears. 
 ''The Walworth Farce,'' mounted with gusto by the Druid Theater, of Galway, Ireland, whose ''DruidSynge'' was a hit at Lincoln Center last summer, begins in a comic sprint. It slows down by the end of the first act, as it carries an increased dramatic weight and screeches to a halt by the brutally tragic final moments that will remain with me long after the other 20 shows I saw at this year's Edinburgh Fringe festival fade from memory. 
 In a ramshackle London apartment, filled with pyramids of toilet paper and hills of junk, a brusque middle-aged man named Dinty (Denis Conway, in a virtuoso turn) and his two battling sons, the sensitive Sean (Tadhg Murphy) and his rougher brother Blake (Garrett Lombard), perform the funniest version of a terrible comedy since Michael Frayn's ''Noises Off.'' The play within the play, a broad comedy about an Irish painter who stumbles into a career in brain surgery, includes a clown car full of stereotypes, all of whom seem to require a different silly-looking wig. 
 It soon becomes clear that they've run through this play before. It's just about all they do. Since moving to London, Dinty keeps the family rehearsing this show over and over (''Details! Details!'' he screams like a diva from the Actor's Studio), refusing to allow anyone out of the house except to get new props. When one of his sons mentions leaving, he reminds them of the horrors of the outside world -- the criminals, the dirty-dealings. ''To sum it up in Cork parlance,'' he says. ''The place is a hole.'' 
 Eventually a visitor enters the room, disrupting the combustible chemistry and introducing a Pinteresque threat of violence. But breaking old routines proves quite difficult in this household where the show, like it or not, must go on.
 Mr. Walsh, who received glowing reviews for ''Bedbound'' at the Irish Repertory Theater in 2003, has been unfairly overlooked in New York compared to countrymen like Martin McDonagh and Conor McPherson. He turns this long-running play within a play into a poignant metaphor for how difficult it is for people, stuck in their routines, to avoid dealing with reality. Dinty angrily insists on sticking to the script. Anything else, he says derisively, would be ''a great leap of the imagination,'' which, come to think of it, is a good way to describe Mr. Walsh's play. 
 ''Walworth'' is the kind of show that you will probably never see at the New York International Fringe Festival: a new play by a star writer produced by a veteran company. And while that's rare at the Edinburgh Fringe too, such work is sometimes produced at the Traverse Theater, the festival's most prestigious home of serious drama. 
 With an army of artists lining the streets of Edinburgh passing out fliers, the Fringe, the world's biggest arts festival, can seem daunting to navigate. Where do you possibly start? Strategies include searching out an eye-catching titles (''Rosencrantz and Guildenstern ... Survived?''), asking a street performer for advice (avoid the fire eaters if you can) or do what most seasoned theatergoers do: find the right theater.
 While the Fringe is open to anyone, its backbone is a series of fiefs like the Traverse. These theaters have well-defined identities -- Pleasance Courtyard, for example, specializes in comedy, while Aurora Nova features dance and more experimental work (like P.S. 122 in Manhattan) -- and those allow the Fringe to maintain quality control without losing its democratic spirit.
 While I didn't see any dramas in Edinburgh that approached the depth and inventiveness of ''Walworth,'' several other Traverse shows explored a similar brand of modern paralysis. Inspired by Suzan Lori-Parks, the English playwright Mark Ravenhill took on the challenge of writing 17 new plays. Each one was produced in the morning of almost every day of the festival.
 The first installment of Ravenhill for Breakfast, as the series is called, presented an often funny, frequently cheap satire of liberal self-satisfaction and consumer society. Three well-heeled ladies struggle with the question of why a terrorist would want to attack nice S.U.V. drivers like themselves. ''We are the good people,'' one says, confident as ever in her own innocence. 
 David Greig, a popular Scottish playwright who also wrote the slick Bonnie and Clyde tale ''Yellow Moon'' and a new adaptation of ''The Bacchae,'' starring Alan Cumming as Dionysus (both at the 2007 Fringe), investigates Western prejudices much more earnestly in ''Damascus.'' The play is a culture-clashing drama about an ineffectual, nervous Scottish writer who goes to Syria to sell English-language textbooks. Like so many Westerners abroad portrayed on stage or screen, he is quite patronizing at first, and is the butt of various jokes about his cultural ignorance. 
 While the show, which unfolds rather predictably, succeeds in demonstrating the uneasiness of agnostics faced with true believers, it never creates credible Syrian characters, who come off as stick figures or more amiable versions of Westerners.
 ''England,'' a gripping meditation by Tim Crouch, also centers on a painfully insecure and entitled Westerner. In this sneakily allegorical work, which takes place on two floors of an art gallery, a nervous English character is played simultaneously by the strangely calm and hypnotic pair of actors, Mr. Crouch and Hannah Ringham, who alternate speaking lines. The speaker, called a guide in the script, can't stop boasting about his/her strong American boyfriend, a confident type who speaks four languages and knows exactly what to say. 
 ''He saved my life,'' the guide says, oddly, before we learn that he had become deathly sick. In the second act, which takes place in an unidentified foreign country, he/she confronts the wife of the dying man, Hassam, who donated his heart so the guide could live.
 Mr. Crouch's ''Oak Tree,'' which opened in New York in 2006, did not prepare me for the finely sculpted language of this drama that at its best resembles the muscular sentences of Caryl Churchill. In a few economical brush strokes, ''England,'' which makes its points obliquely, through metaphor instead of sloganeering, hints at a dark world where everything can be boiled down to a financial transaction (the global art market is sent up mercilessly) and moral choice is regularly outsourced.
 At the end of the elliptical piece the guide (in this case, Mr. Crouch) is at a loss, sputtering out questions to a woman who doesn't understand him. ''What's she saying?'' he asks his translator. ''What did she say? What did she say?'' Like the flabbergasted woman from Mr. Ravenhill's play, he tries to explain that he is a good person. But this time, he doesn't appear to believe it himself.
 The Edinburgh Fringe festival runs through Aug. 27; edfringe.com. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A theater column on Thursday about the Edinburgh Fringe festival erroneously included a new adaptation of ''The Bacchae'' among its productions. ''The Bacchae'' is in the Edinburgh International Festival, not the Fringe festival.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Edinburgh Fringe, the world's largest arts festival, is open to any production. While many shows are by small troupes, veteran companies are also a presence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRINGE FESTIVAL)(pg. E1)
Top, a scene from ''The Walworth Farce,'' written by Enda Walsh. Above, a scene from ''Damascus'' by David Greig. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEITH PATTISON
 ALAN MCCREDIE)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); BRAIN (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (58%) IRELAND (73%); UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



283 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Who Is the Real Face Of Plastic Surgery?

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
IT was the pale green and pink striped bikini that did it.
 When Sandra Cornier, a mother of two from Brooklyn, looked at a recent photo of herself taken at Manhattan Beach, N.Y., she didn't like what she saw. She had been nursing her son for 11 months, and now she could barely fill out the bathing suit top. 
 She made a decision: She would have breast implant surgery, and right away, because she wanted to be cozy in her favorite bikini by the end of the summer. She did not have the cash available, but she was willing to borrow.
 ''I just wanted to proportion myself out and look like I did before I had children, simple as that,'' said Ms. Cornier, 33, who is married and works for a government agency. She took a loan for $10,800. ''I did not want to wait two or three years to save up for surgery.'' 
 Cosmetic medicine used to be the province of the rich and celebrated who would pay cash or write a check up front for their tummy tucks and eyelid lifts. (Such procedures are not typically covered by health insurance.) But in the last five years, with the advent of reality shows like ''Extreme Makeover'' and the popularization of nonsurgical treatments like lasers and wrinkle injections, people with blue- or pink-collar incomes and Beverly Hills ideals are embracing vanity medicine.
 Doctors around the country are noting a democratization of cosmetic medicine, a redefinition of it as a coveted yet attainable luxury purchase, on par with products like Louis Vuitton handbags or flat-screen televisions.
 The medical industry has responded by marketing plastic surgery as if it were an appliance or other big-ticket consumer product: a commodity to be financed with credit cards and loans.
 About a third of people considering plastic surgery reported average household incomes below $30,000, according to a survey conducted in 2004 for the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. The poll of 644 people found that 13 percent of those seeking information on plastic surgery procedures reported an annual household income of more than $90,000.
 Dr. Paul A. Blair, a facial surgeon in Hurricane, W.Va., said his patients have included high-school teachers, truck drivers and school-bus drivers. Dr. L. Mike Nayak, a facial surgeon in St. Louis, said that his patients include blue-collar or lower-salary professionals -- ''teachers, retirees, psychologists, regular middle-class working folks.''
 ''I have a couple of jail wardens,'' Dr. Nayak said.
 Laurie L. Essig, who teaches sociology at Middlebury College in Vermont, said there is little mystery why this is so: Middle-class Americans are buying into the idea of better living through surgery. Makeover shows, magazines and advertising campaigns have convinced people that flatter stomachs, inflated bosoms, smoother brows and whiter teeth will so improve their careers or their romantic lives that it is even worth going into debt, she said. 
 ''In a bosom-obsessed society where you think you can earn $20,000 more with bigger breasts, is it insane to consider taking out a loan to have surgery?'' said Dr. Essig, who is writing a book on the economics behind plastic surgery. ''The demographic is teachers, law enforcement officers and stay-at-home moms.''
 One of the most vivid illustrations of this economic reality is the rise of finance companies offering middle-income patients easy access to credit to pay for their surgeries. 
 Patients throughout the country find brochures in their doctor's office with slogans like ''Get the Cosmetic Procedure You Want -- Today!'' from established financing companies like Capital One and CareCredit, a unit of GE Money. In Star magazine, among ads for weight-loss pills and slimming gels, an Internet-based financer called DoctorsSayYes.net advertises: ''Absolutely no one will be turned down. Now you can finance your cosmetic procedure for as little as $99 down and $99 per month.''
 Mike Testa, the president of CareCredit, said that Americans spent about $14 billion last year on cosmetic medical procedures, from liposuction to laser skin treatments. Of that, $1 billion is financed by companies like his, he said. 
 ''It is certainly getting more patients to say yes today rather than delaying treatment,'' Mr. Testa said. ''If you had to pay cash for a car, how many cars would you buy in your lifetime?''
 The car analogy came up frequently in interviews with more than 30 doctors and patients. 
 ''One of my patients said: 'I financed my car. Why shouldn't I finance my face?' '' said Dr. Lisa Cassileth, a plastic surgeon in Beverly Hills, Calif. ''Plastic surgery has become just like any other high-ticket item you put on credit and pay for later.''
 Cosmetic patients said financing -- including home equity loans -- allows them to proceed as soon as they are ready.
 Ms. Cornier, the Brooklyn mother, was matched by the manager of the office of her Park Avenue plastic surgeon, Dr. David P. Rapaport, with Capital One health care finance for her $10,800 loan. She received approval in minutes for the breast implant surgery, she said.
 ''Financing gives the average person like me the opportunity to do this without having to wait,'' Ms. Cornier said.
 For many patients, the plastic surgery loan is just another bill -- a way to build up frequent-flier miles if they put it on a credit card, or another check to write once a month. Michelle Lee, 28, a saleswoman at a Mercedes-Benz dealership in Pleasanton, Calif., used a finance company to pay for $6,000 in liposuction after her regular workouts failed to perfect her arms, stomach and inner thighs, she said. 
 ''Those were problem areas for me and I needed results now,'' she said. ''It is all about instant gratification for me.''
 She was charged a $600 processing fee for the loan, but she made sure to pay off her balance before the 25 percent interest kicked in, she said.
 Other patients face years of payments; there are no published statistics about bankruptcy or even default associated with plastic surgery loans.
 Lani Guzman, 21, who works part-time jobs as an administrator at a law firm and at a carpet company in South Pasadena, Calif., had surgery in May to smooth a bump on her nose that had been bothering her for years, she said. She put $5,000 on a credit card and took out a three-year loan with a financing firm for the other $5,000.
 ''They charged dumb fees like $650 to put the loan together, which is kind of a rip-off,'' said Ms. Guzman, who also serves in the Army Reserve. She said she pays $178.01 monthly to the finance company and does not know how long it will take her to pay off the debt on her credit card.
 Dr. Robert Kotler, the facial surgeon in Beverly Hills who operated on Ms. Guzman, said that orthodontists invented the idea of paying in installments for elective medical procedures. Now a crooked nose is becoming the new overbite, he said. And, just as pay-as-you-go orthodontics turned the Hollywood smile into a rite of passage for the children of middle-class families, financing is widening the audience for plastic surgery from Mercedes S-Class drivers to subway riders.
 ''What does it cost to amortize a nose over the useful life of it?'' Dr. Kotler said. ''It costs 30 cents a day, cheaper than a can of soda, and unlike a car, you get the benefit of a nose for the rest of your life.''
 But some doctors worry that some patients are spending on vanity care, even as they forgo health insurance because of its expense -- a decision that is particularly risky should something go wrong or need to be corrected after the elective procedures.
 ''I have some23-year-old women who are getting breast implants who think they are young and healthy and don't need health insurance,'' Dr. Rapaport said. ''But they are used to paying for clothing and makeup, so there is no cognitive dissonance for them in paying for procedures to maintain their bodies.''
 Doctors also worry that easy access to credit could induce people to sign up for (and perhaps regret) procedures they otherwise might not be able to afford. Every month, said Dr. Darrick E. Antell, a plastic surgeon in Manhattan, as they make their loan payment, they might question whether their surgery decision was worth it.
 ''In cases where funds are tight for the patients, they might be better off buying a new dress instead of a new chin,'' Dr. Antell said.
 As for Ms. Cornier, she was still happy two weeks after she had the breast implant operation, even though it is likely that, with interest, her procedure could ultimately cost $16,440, about a 50 percent increase. She said the gratification of having a new silhouette more than compensated. 
 ''I did not want to look like Pamela Anderson,'' Ms. Cornier said. ''I just wanted my bathing suit to fill out right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES) DIAGRAM: IN PURSUIT OF BEAUTY: Doctors in America performed almost 11.5 million cosmetic procedures, from breast surgery to Botox injections, in 2006, an increase of 446 percent since 1997, according to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery. Meanwhile, reality television shows recast plastic surgery as a makeover technique, helping to sell the public on cosmetic intervention -- a connection borne out by a study published last month in Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery that found that 80 percent of 42 patients surveyed were infl uenced by reality television shows to seek cosmetic procedures. Some recent moments in the mainstreaming of cosmetic medicine: 2002 Greta Van Susteren, a Fox News anchor, describes in People the surgery that removed bags under her eyes. 2002 ABC broadcasts ''Extreme Makeover,'' the fi rst reality plastic surgery show. 2004 Fox counters with ''The Swan.'' 2004 Star magazine begins a column called ''Knifestyles of the Rich and Famous.'' 2006 Tara Reid tells Us Weekly she needed surgery to correct botched liposuction and breast implant procedures. 2007 Virginia Madsen becomes the first actress paid to endorse Botox. (SOURCES: FROM TOP: ASSOCIATED PRESS/CNN
EVERETT COLLECTION
EVERETT COLLECTION
LARS KLOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
EFFIE NADDEL/EVERETT COLLECTION
LESTER COHEN/WIREIMAGE.COM)
 DIAGRAM SHOWING AN INCREASE IN THE NUMBER OF COSMETIC PROCEDURES PERFORMED BY DOCTORS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (91%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (84%); CHILDREN (74%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (66%); REALITY TELEVISION (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (64%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (63%); TRUCK DRIVERS (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR AESTHETIC PLASTIC SURGERY (59%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (66%); LVMH (BIT) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (66%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



284 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Terrorist Label for Iran Guard Reflects U.S. Impatience With U.N.

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and NAZILA FATHI. 
Helene Cooper reported from Washington, and Nazila Fathi from Tehran.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 15 

 BODY:
In moving toward designating Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as a foreign terrorist organization, the Bush administration is adopting a more confrontational approach with Tehran, reflecting frustration with a stalled sanctions package at the United Nations Security Council, officials said Wednesday. 
 White House and State Department officials were debating when to make the formal designation -- White House officials want to do so now, and the State Department wants to wait until various August recesses are over -- but the administration was already adopting tougher talk toward Tehran. 
 ''We are confronting Iranian behavior across a variety of different fronts, on a number of different, quote unquote, battlefields, if you will,'' the State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, told reporters in Washington. His use of the word ''battlefields'' was described by some European diplomats as another ratcheting up of the anti-Iran statements.
 Mr. McCormack maintained that his use of the word did not mean that the State Department had adopted the view that the United States should confront Iran militarily, a view that has been advocated by some officials in Vice President Dick Cheney's office. 
 ''I was trying to illustrate that you don't just confront Iran with guns and soldiers; sometimes you do it with lawyers and accountants and diplomats,'' Mr. McCormack said. 
 But other administration officials said that the United States was getting increasingly frustrated that Security Council sanctions, which were meant to rein in Tehran's nuclear ambitions, have been anemic. Beyond that, administration officials are worried that America's allies in imposing the sanctions -- particularly Russia and China -- have been slow to agree to increase the pressure and have balked at imposing tougher measures.
 In Tehran, politicians across the board said Wednesday that if the United States proceeded with plans to declare the Revolutionary Guard a foreign terrorist organization, the action would only unify politicians in Iran and lead to an escalation of hostility between the countries. 
 Iranian government officials were not available to comment on the issue. But the Fars News Agency, which is close to the Revolutionary Guard, quoted an official at the Foreign Ministry as dismissing the news as propaganda. 
 Analysts and former government officials in Tehran, both conservative and reformist, said the planned designation of the Guard as a terrorist organization was intended to destabilize the government.
 ''Maybe the Revolutionary Guards have done certain things in their own backyard,'' said Saeed Leylaz, an economist and a reformist political analyst, referring to Afghanistan and Iraq. ''But they have also cooperated with Americans there.'' 
 ''Now the United States is asking Iran to help stabilize Iraq, but in the meantime suggests that after stability in Iraq it will come after Iran,'' added Mr. Leylaz, who often criticizes President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
 Iran and the United States have held three rounds of talks on an ambassadorial level in Baghdad in recent months to discuss how to stabilize Iraq. The talks were held as United States officials accused Iran of stepping up support for radical Shiite militia groups in Iraq.
 Iran has brushed off the accusations and has said its efforts are aimed at stabilizing a democratic government in Iraq.
 ''The Americans want to cover up their own failure in Iraq with these kinds of accusations,'' said Akbar Alami, a reformist member of Parliament. 
 A former deputy defense minister, Alireza Akbari, warned that the measure could cause instability in the region. ''If they put pressure on the security apparatus of a country, they should expect a similar reaction,'' he said. ''And it would certainly serve the real terrorists in the region if the United States and Iran move toward confronting one another.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); NEWS REPORTING (74%); RELIGION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



285 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Economic Boom Fails to Generate Optimism in India

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Aug. 15 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh cautioned Indians against hubris in his annual Independence Day speech on Wednesday and promised a spate of antipoverty measures that hinted at the vulnerabilities facing his government and the nation.
 ''India cannot become a nation with islands of high growth and vast areas untouched by development, where the benefits of growth accrue only to a few,'' said Mr. Singh, speaking from behind a bulletproof glass shield at the historic Red Fort. 
 His speech signaled the peculiar paradox facing Mr. Singh's coalition government, led by the Congress Party, three years into its term in office. 
 On the one hand, his government has presided over sustained economic growth, amassed record government revenues, avoided conflicts with rival neighbors and stepped closer to securing a landmark deal with the United States that would allow energy-starved India access to additional nuclear technology and fuel.
 And yet, after 60 years of independence, nearly 30 percent of Indians still live below the official poverty line and close to half of all Indian children under the age of 3 are malnourished. A government study released last week found that the majority of Indians live on 50 cents a day. 
 Those deficits mean that the Congress Party and its wobbly coalition are hardly impervious to the pressures of a demanding democracy, and it is rare to find a Congress politician in the capital these days who is not worried about the future. 
 The party has suffered badly in key elections this year, including in Uttar Pradesh, the home state of the party's ruling Nehru-Gandhi family, and Punjab, the prime minister's home state, and it is facing another crucial poll later this year in western Gujarat. 
 The party has been dogged by inflation, particularly in the prices of food, and by fierce opposition from its Communist Party allies to deepening ties with Washington, particularly around the nuclear accord.
 It is unlikely this disagreement will prompt the collapse of the coalition before its term expires in 2009, though the stridency of the argument suggests a clear vulnerability.
 The government's principal challenge lies in convincing Indians that economic growth can uplift the struggling countryside. Inequality has long prevailed in Indian society, but compared with other countries, including China and the United States, that gap is relatively modest. 
 Still, in a giant democracy, where aspirations are soaring for many, even the perception of a widening divide can be politically dangerous. That pitfall was amply reflected in the caution of Mr. Singh's speech and the new measures he pledged.
 The prime minister promised new investments in rural irrigation projects, health care and schools. He urged water conservation, and said the government would devise health insurance and pension plans for the poor.
 Mr. Singh also pointed to what is arguably the government's trickiest challenge: how to industrialize and move people out of the lagging agricultural sector. 
 Making that transition particularly difficult is the country's poor record in educating its people. One in three Indians is illiterate, according to official figures.
 India has faced sometimes violent protests in recent months over proposed industrial projects, from car factories to steel plants to dams, that would displace farmers and farm workers. Its efforts to establish Chinese-style special economic zones have been hotly contested, and for Mr. Singh's party, a political lightning rod.
 Though the soaring economy has generated many jobs, most of the work force remains in the unorganized sector, laying bricks or harvesting crops or operating corner stores, according to the government study last week, by the National Commission for Enterprises in the Unorganized Sector.
 ''The transition from an agrarian society to an industrial economy has always been a difficult one,'' Mr. Singh said in his speech. ''But industrialization offers new opportunities and hope, especially for people in rural areas displaced by agrarian change.''
 The government, he said, will soon announce a rehabilitation package to ensure ''no one is worse off.'' 
 He made the same pledge in his Independence Day speech last year. But the tone of this year's speech was far more cautionary. Last year, there was a litany of figures on economic growth, this year, none. 
 Last year, he praised the erection of ''vast industrial estates and special economic zones''; this year, he simply advised that ''industrialization is the most effective means to create new job opportunities.''
 ''We must not be overconfident,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students celebrated India's Independence Day yesterday with a stroll along the bay in Mumbai, the nation's commercial capital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GAUTAM SINGH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Prime Minister Manmohan Singh after his speech yesterday. His tone reflected the fragility within his governing coalition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARISH TYAGI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); CHILDREN (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (73%); MALNUTRITION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); FOOD PRICES (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); IRRIGATION (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) GUJARAT, INDIA (58%); UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2007



286 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 6305 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 'AUTOMATIC UPDATE' Artists forgo more traditional image-making materials for a taste of recent technologies -- LCD screens, DVD players, digital video and computers -- in this buoyant survey of media installations at the Museum of Modern Art. The show begins in a black-box gallery on the second floor, with an interactive installation of 21 LCD screens on a wall connected to a laptop computer, a work by Rafael Lozano-Hemmer, a young Mexican artist. Viewers can enter random words and ideas into the computer, which are then generated into questions and displayed on the screens; viewed in passing, the questions are like subliminal messages. Nearby is an installation by Jennifer and Kevin McCoy, an American husband-and-wife artist team, consisting of a tabletop model recreating the famous car accident scene from Jean-Luc Godard's 1967 film ''Weekend.'' Video cameras film the scene, the tabletop rotating to create the impression of movement, with the footage computer-processed and then played back live in a projection on an adjacent wall. It may be the coolest thing you've ever seen. 
But also likable are Xu Bing's interactive computer installation, above, in which viewers are invited to communicate using popular symbols, and Paul Pfeiffer's tiny LCD monitor showing a digital loop of spinning and hovering basketballs, the artist having digitally removed the players from video of NBA games. Mr. Pfeiffer's piece is pretty fabulous, both as a contemplative, abstract aesthetic experience and as a meditation on beauty in sport. (Through Sept. 3, 212-708-9400, moma.org.) BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE GREAT COVER-UP: AMERICAN RUGS ON BEDS, TABLES AND FLOORS,' through Sept. 9. The more than 60 rugs in this extraordinary show count among the best pictorial art of 19th- and early-20th-century America, which means that quite a few of the women who made them qualify as great, if unidentified, artists. Densely textured, gloriously colored, boldly scaled and exuberantly frontal, they were made between 1800 and 1950 and provide something of a history of the American handmade rug, from bed to floor., and from mostly yarn-sewn to the wildly popular hooking technique. Their intuitive intelligence, where space and composition are concerned, proves once more that modern form is not a modern invention. and flattens the always provisional distinction between art and craft. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'THE SHAPES OF SPACE,' through Sept. 5. The Guggenheim takes time off from thematic blockbusters to bring the public up to date on recent acquisitions, provocatively installed by three younger curators among an astute selection of older works from the collection. The theme is space, one of modern art's central concerns. The results are mixed, but cause for optimism. It is not every day you can look at a Mondrian while listening to disco and rap emanating from another kind of grid: the flashing patterns of a digitized dance floor by Piotr Uklanski. The atmosphere can get a bit mall-like at times, but this is what every New York museum needs to do more: play with the collection and find new ways to bring it to life. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. 
 (Smith)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'BIOGRAPHICAL LANDSCAPE: THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF STEPHEN SHORE, 1969-1979,' through Sept. 9. In 1971 the Metropolitan Museum of Art gave Stephen Shore its second-ever exhibition by a living photographer. (Alfred Stieglitz had the first.) He was 23 when it opened. What he did comprises most of this wonderful show. Mr. Shore has reprinted the photographs digitally, with rejuvenated colors as fresh and subtle as the day the pictures were shot. The work's laconic eloquence speaks of an era and a nation. Its formal rigor makes an uncanny order out of images that, at first glance, look like no place or nothing. Look again. His show reminds us of a period when cutting-edge American art and the tradition of straight, documentary photography got together. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at West 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. 
 (Michael Kimmelman)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'LET YOUR MOTTO BE RESISTANCE: AFRICAN-AMERICAN PORTRAITS,' through Sept. 9. This show of photographic portraits is a praise-song in pictures, a shout-out to history. It's also a fancy-dress inaugural party for the yet-to-be-built National Museum of African-American History and Culture in Washington. It tends to be a little too fancy, a little too short on grit. Still, what a party it is, with a Who's Who of charismatic black statesmen, from Frederick Douglass to Malcolm X, and with Leontyne Price, Mahalia Jackson and the Supremes sharing a stage. (See above.) (Holland Cotter)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'COAXING THE SPIRITS TO DANCE,' through Dec. 2. How the Papuans practiced their beliefs on the remote Pacific island of New Guinea in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, when they still had little contact with the West, is the complex and fascinating story told in this exhibition of some 60 objects and 30 rare photographs of the works on site or in actual use. The carved and painted ''spirit boards'' made throughout the gulf region, on the south coast of present-day Papua New Guinea, are probably the most easily recognized of the area's traditional artworks. Their central designs, passed down from fathers to sons and through marriages, typically represent a bush or river spirit, with a heavily stylized face and perhaps a small body, surrounded by various totemic symbols. More daring in concept are the masks used in ritual dances. Papuan art may not be as varied or exciting as that of many African or Amerind peoples, but it records a vibrant community. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Grace Glueck)
 THE MET: 'HIDDEN IN PLAIN SIGHT: CONTEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE COLLECTION,' through Sept. 3. A small but potent exhibition of contemporary photographs from the museum's collection that opens with an epigraph by Henry David Thoreau: ''The question is not what you look at but what you see.'' Artists here find beauty in the everyday and mundane, from Walker Evans's late series of Polaroids to Stephen Shore's landscapes and Rachel Harrison's photograph of a house in Perth Amboy, N.J., where thousands believed that they saw the face of the Virgin Mary on a second-floor window. Although this is a small show -- only a few dozen photographs installed in two rooms -- it could take you longer to absorb than a much larger exhibition. It is not just about viewing photographs, after all, but about learning a new way to look at the world. (See above.) (Martha Schwendener)
 * THE MET: 'INCISIVE IMAGES: IVORY AND BOXWOOD CARVINGS,' through Nov. 25. This extraordinary show, drawn almost entirely from the Met's vaults, presents an array of nearly 100 carved figures, crucifixes, reliefs, containers, hand-held weapons and the occasional piece of furniture. It is an engrossing hive of religious fervor, Classical erudition (and occasional naughtiness), style shifts and multicultural crosscurrents. And among the many feats of drop-dead artistic skill are several of traffic-stopping caliber. Don't miss it. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'JOURNEYS: MAPPING THE EARTH AND MIND IN CHINESE ART,' through Aug. 26. Every six months or so the Met rotates all the work in its Chinese painting galleries to preserve the delicate silks and papers, and each time the curator in charge of the department, Maxwell K. Hearn, produces a new and illuminating thematic exhibition, as is the case with ''Journeys.'' Outward-bound and inward-bound are the directions taken by Chinese landscape painting, and it carries us on some fascinating voyages in a show that mixes classical and contemporary art. (See above.) (Cotter)
 THE MET: 'NEO RAUCH AT THE MET: PARA,' through Oct. 14. The figurative style of the leader of the Leipzig School is never less than ambitious, but here it looks almost fatally retro, as if the context of the Met had made the painter's mind turn to thoughts of browned-out colors; characters of a Romantic 19th- century mien; and settings that often suggest garrets or hunting lodges. The result is an exhibition that looks too much at home in the museum and sells Mr. Rauch's talent short, but is still one that should be seen. (See above.) (Smith)
 * THE MET: 'ONE OF A KIND: THE STUDIO CRAFT MOVEMENT,' through Dec. 2. Focusing on the postwar development of artist-craftsmen who not only conceive and design their own objects but have a direct hand in making them, this display of furniture, glass, ceramics, metalwork, jewelry and fiber includes funny, quirky, provocative and sometimes gorgeous things. Among its stars are a witty bust by the California funk ceramicist Robert Arneson (1920-92), portraying the mother of the 16th-century painter and printmaker Albrecht Durer; John Cederquist's elegant cabinet concealed behind a trompe l'oeil door painted and veneered to look like a battered wooden packing case with a rowdy wave tearing through it; and Bonnie Seeman's fetching ceramic coffeepot and tray, whose mock cabbage leaves and rhubarb stalks evoke the genteel tradition of 18th-century British and continental china, but can also be read as human rather than vegetative tissue. Traditionalists, too, have their place in this show, with the wood workers Wharton Esherick and Sam Maloof represented by elegantly simple renditions in the furniture line; respectively, a music stand and a Shaker-like settee. (See above.) (Grace Glueck) 
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'FRANK STELLA ON THE ROOF,' through Oct. 28. Two large Pop Art sculptures, two architectural models and a model enlarged into a sculpture-installation piece confirm that one of the greatest American artists of the postwar era doesn't do himself or anyone else any favors when he strays from the wall to work fully in the round. The results have a certain Stella-like verve but are otherwise generic. (See above.) (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN DIASPORAN ARTS: 'THE FRENCH EVOLUTION: RACE, POLITICS & THE 2005 RIOTS,' through Sept. 9. Alexis Peskine serves as an informed guide to recent events in France, although his position is somewhat complicated. Son of a Franco-Russian father (an architect) and an Afro-Brazilian mother, Mr. Peskine holds a bachelor of fine arts degree from Howard University and a master's from the Maryland Institute College of Art, which set him distinctly apart from the working-class youth in the banlieue, or suburb. His training as a graphic artist is evident in paintings that appropriate elements from comics, cartoons and food products, while his interest in hip-hop culminates in a music video titled ''Ripa'' (slang for Paris). Uneven at times, Mr. Peskine's work is ambitious and reflective. It also succeeds in showing us how in France's difficulties we feel echoes of our own. 80 Hanson Place, at South Portland Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0492, mocada.org. (Schwendener)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RICHARD SERRA SCULPTURE: 40 YEARS,' through Sept. 10. This retrospective is a landmark by a titan of sculpture. At 67, Mr. Serra is still nudging the language of abstraction, constructing ever more awesome mazes of looming Cor-Ten steel. His ''Torqued Ellipses'' and ''Torqued Toruses'' and other recent works like ''Band'' and ''Sequence'' have their origins in pieces he did 40 years ago in rubber and lead, as this retrospective handsomely affirms, but these are nonetheless unprecedented variations on the theme of dumbfounding spirals and loops. These shapes and experiences are new. That's about the best, and the rarest, compliment you can give to any artist. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Kimmelman)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'NEW YORK RISES: PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUGENE DE SALIGNAC,' through Oct. 28. This exhibition makes a case for adding Eugene de Salignac, the official photographer for the New York City Department of Bridges, Plant and Structures from 1903 to 1934, to the canon of American photographers whose images are forever linked with the city. He captured the Williamsburg, Manhattan and Queensboro Bridges just as construction was completed and the subways tracks were being laid. In some of his moving, eye-catching images, he exhibits his appreciation for New York's work force. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1673, mcny.org. (Bridget L. Goodbody)
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY: 'NATURE AND THE AMERICAN VISION: THE HUDSON RIVER SCHOOL AT THE NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY,' through Feb. 25January 13. The third show in a series on Hudson River School paintings from the collection argues that the idea of an American landscape filled with ''sacred'' sites is as much a cultural invention as it is an accident of nature. Thomas Cole's epic series of imaginary landscape paintings, ''The Course of Empire,'' is the centerpiece. Other works look back to the Old World, borrowing ideas about the European Grand Tour to create an American Grand Tour of natural sites along the Hudson, the Catskills, the Adirondacks and farther westward. The exhibition includes works by George Loring Brown, Asher B. Durand, Albert Bierstadt, Frederic Edwin Church and others. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org.
 (Schwendener)
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY: 'NEW YORK DIVIDED: SLAVERY AND THE CIVIL WAR,' through Sept. 3. New York has a cosmopolitan pride in itself, but as this exhibition shows, it is not always well deserved. Even after slavery belatedly came to an end in New York State in 1827, New York City was a ''hotbed of pro- slavery politics,'' inspired by close commercial links with the South and the international cotton trade. For every instance of abolitionist activity, there was another in which slavery was defended or supported. This powerful exhibition, focused on the years between Emancipation and Reconstruction, and featuring documents, videos, audio dramatizations, books, cartoons and historical objects, shows how divided the city was, even during the years of the Civil War. But it also draws attention to the importance of black abolitionists and to the forces that countered slavery's horrific heritage. It brings to a close the Historical Society's multiyear exploration of slavery in New York. (See above.) (Edward Rothstein)
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'SURVEY OF PARIS ABSTRACTIONS,' through Aug. 26. Early in his career, Isamu Noguchi (1904-88) received a Guggenheim Fellowship and went to Paris, where he was introduced to Brancusi a few days after arriving. For five weeks in 1927, Noguchi served as Brancusi's apprentice. Afterward, he set up his own studio in Gentilly, outside of Paris, where he created the 30 gouaches, or opaque watercolors, and six of the sculptures on view here. Brancusi's influence on Noguchi is obvious in works like ''Globular,'' from 1928, an abstract brass sculpture that looks so much like a Brancusi that out of this context it would probably be mistaken for one. But a selection of works from the 1920s to the 1980s shows how the lessons from this period continued to inform Noguchi throughout his career. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. 
 (Schwendener)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'THE DONNER PARTY,' through Sept. 24. Jim Shaw's ''Donner Party'' merges the saga of the ill-fated Donner-Reed Party, westbound settlers trapped in the High Sierras in the winter of 1846 to 1847, with Judy Chicago's benchmark feminist installation ''The Dinner Party.'' The central element is a ring of miniature covered wagons that mimics the dining table in Ms. Chicago's work, with 27 sculptures assembled from items purchased in thrift stores. It may seem like a work based on sick, twisted, juvenile humor (O.K., it is -- but that's Mr. Shaw's allure), yet ''The Donner Party'' also contemplates how myths -- national or, in the case of Ms. Chicago, individual -- are forged and perpetuated, and it serves as a cautionary tale for taking them too seriously. A Museum of Modern Art affiliate, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Schwendener)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'ORGANIZING CHAOS,' through Sept. 24. With John Cage as spirit guide, this exhibition presents eight works by eight artists in eight large galleries with no muss, no fuss, no nasty spillover, although this doesn't rule out many interesting connections. The subject of ''organizing chaos'' is broached in film, video, text and photographs that alternate between macrocosmic and microcosmic, silence and noise, anarchic and tightly scripted. Orchestras, entropy, human hatred and life in the studio, the Sunday papers and the backyard are invoked in contributions from Luke Fowler, Rivane Neuenschwander and Cao Guimaraes, Bruce Nauman, Christian Marclay, Tomoko Takahashi, Robert Smithson, Hans-Peter Feldmann and Stephen Vitiello. (See above.) (Smith)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'PETER YOUNG: 1963-1977,' through Sept. 24. This ebullient show retraces the rapid rise of a maverick abstract painter who made it big and then took a pass, leaving town to settle eventually in Bisbee, Ariz. With the dot as his main staple, he worked in an array of styles, mixing Color Field, Minimalism and Process Art as he pleased. There are near-Photo-Realist images of streaming galaxies; luscious motifs derived from folding bare canvas onto painted canvas; chunky necklaces made of acrylic paint; and quirky, geometric line paintings stretched on tree branches. The show is a blast from the past that singes the present. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'MIDNIGHT'S DAYDREAM,' through Oct. 28. The three artists in this show were artists in residence at the Studio Museum of Harlem in the last year, but their work represents very different approaches. Titus Kaphar is the classicist, taking European and American portrait paintings from the 18th and 19th centuries and reconfiguring them into strategic compositions. Wardell Milan II is the archetypal collagist, photographing arrangements of art reproductions, family photos and images cut from magazines. Demetrius Oliver is the Conceptualist, working in the trickster vein of David Hammons and Duchamp. All three, however, actively confront race and (art) history, which often seems a mandate for young black artists. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Schwendener)
 WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART: 'FAITH AND FORTUNE: FIVE CENTURIES OF EUROPEAN MASTERWORKS,' through Dec. 9. Celebrating the return of its famous Renaissance, Baroque and Rococo paintings and objects of art from a three-year national tour, the Wadsworth has arranged a feast of a show. One of the most appealing things about this gathering of some 400 treasures is the mix, with knockout paintings keeping period company with small sculptures, elaborate table furnishings, decorative platters, Meissen knockoffs of Chinese pottery, a porcelain birdcage and vases and such. Strolling through the galleries, you'll find treasures like ''Saint Francis of Assisi in Ecstasy'' (about 1594-95), said to be the first authentic Caravaggio in an American museum; Fra Angelico's poignant, poetic fragment ''Head of an Angel'' (about 1455-50); and Francisco de Zurbaran's fearsome portrayal of a dead martyr, ''Saint Serapion'' (1628). But the piece de resistance is an entire gallery made into an art and curio cabinet, with a planned clutter of brilliant objects that play to a viewer's inner acquisitor: exotic shells mounted in gold; an extraordinary Baroque ivory carving (presumed to be before 1650) of Adam and Eve; an automatic tabletop clock (about 1619) with a standing lion that could roll its eyes, open its jaws and stick out its tongue when the hours struck. Dazzlement prevails. 600 Main Street, Hartford, (860) 278-2670, wadsworthatheneum.org. (Glueck)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM AT ALTRIA: MATTHEW BRANNON, 'WHERE WERE WE,' through Aug. 26. Matthew Brannon brings together art, poetry and advertising in a series of letterpress prints that hark back to 1950s and 1960s textile designs by Astrid Sampe and Marimekko. Texts written by the artist and accompanying the images read like song lyrics crossed with Conceptual Art and Language Poetry (which emphasized experimentalism and reader interaction). Consumption and excess are frequent references, as well as how art, design and fashion feed these modern yet primordial urges and desires. 120 Park Avenue, at 42nd Street, (917) 663-2453, whitney.org. (Schwendener)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'LINCOLN KIRSTEIN,' through Aug. 27. In the middle of the last century Lincoln Kirstein particularly relished attacking the Museum of Modern Art. Pure abstraction was ridiculous, he thought. It had no standards. Against Mondrian and Pollock, he endorsed, among others, the artists in this show. They are the sculptors Elie Nadelman and Gaston Lachaise and the painters Paul Cadmus (who was Kirstein's brother-in-law), Walker Evans and Pavel Tchelitchew. With the exception of Evans, Kirstein's taste clearly hasn't won the day, but it's never bad to re-examine received opinions or to be reminded of a generous advocate. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600. (Kimmelman)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'RESISTANCE IS ... ,' through Sept. 2. This is an earnest sort of show about social unrest and upheaval, but it's smart, engaging and nicely put together, combining a pleasing diversity of artists, mediums and styles. Several of the two dozen works are documentary photographs of acts of social disobedience, public demonstrations and political counteraction, among them now-famous images by Richard Avedon, Gordon Parks, Larry Fink, Gilles Peress and Garry Winogrand. Timing is everything, and this gathering of works couldn't look or feel more apposite. (See above.) (Benjamin Genocchio)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'RUDOLF STINGEL,' through Oct. 14. The work of this Italian-born artist, who is based in New York, seduces the eye while also upending most notions of what, exactly, constitutes a painting, how it should be made and by whom. His favored materials include carpet and Styrofoam, as well as paint on canvas. His style swings between abstract purity and Photo Realism. His grandly spare survey has a mirrored floor and a foil-covered room, lighted by a crystal chandelier, that visitors may mark on and that he may or may not later appropriate as a painting. As enthralling as it is perturbing, his work combines beauty, humor and a democratic slant with a rigorous sense of economy. It also forms one of the best-looking exhibitions seen lately at the Whitney. (See above.) (Smith)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SUMMER OF LOVE: ART OF THE PSYCHEDELIC ERA,' through Sept. 16. Tear gas, pot and patchouli were the scents of the 1960s. You can almost detect the last two wafting through this two-floor display of rock posters, light shows, photographs and paintings. But the burn of tear gas, with the association of political emergency it brings, is missing in a show that remembers a lot, but forgets much more, about what was happening 40 years ago, when America was losing its mind to save, some would say, its soul. (See above.) (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 'EMANCIPATORY ACTION: PAULA TROPE AND THE MENINOS' Paula Trope's work with the meninos, children who live in the favelas, or shantytowns, in Rio de Janeiro, is similar to Zana Briski's ''Kids With Cameras'' project, chronicled in the film ''Born Into Brothels.'' Like Ms. Briski, Ms. Trope distributes cameras among the children, but the cameras are rudimentary pinhole devices; and the grainy, blurry photographs, which look as if they were taken with a fisheye lens, are less photojournalism than elements in a larger conceptual project. Influenced by Brazilian art from the 1960s and 1970s -- Helio Oiticica, Cildo Meireles, Miguel Rio Branco and the filmmaker Glauber Rocha, figures central to Neo-Concretism, Tropicalia and Cinema Novo -- Ms. Trope cites ''otherness'' and issues of authorship as central to her project. Americas Society, 680 Park Avenue, (212) 249-8950, through Sept 1. (Schwendener)
 'OLD SCHOOL' The contemporary painters in ''Old School'' are interested in what might be called the proto-Surrealist sensibility of art made centuries before Freud. Anj Smith, Jakub Julian Ziolkowski and Hilary Harkness work well alongside Brueghel. A painting attributed to the School of Caravaggio serves as a reasonable springboard for grotesque still-life reinterpretations by Glenn Brown and John Currin, and portraits by Elizabeth Peyton and Jan van Noordt, among others. ''Old School'' skips the heavy art history explaining how paintings functioned as religious tracts, sermons on morality and proof of social status. But if you want art history, the Frick is only a block away. Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, Manhattan, (212) 517-8677, zwirnerandwirth.com, through Aug. 31. (Schwendener)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'DOUBLE X-RATED: WHERE THE GIRLS ARE' The ''Double X'' in the title of this all-woman group show, organized by Amelia Abdullahsani, refers to female chromosomes, which clearly do not determine any one art style. Despite a shared realism, goth-subculture portraits by the Stockholm-based Ulrika Minami Warmling are very different from Noel Grunwaldt's beautiful watercolors of dead birds. Katrin Sigurdardottir hides landscapes in boxes; Francesca Gabbiani conjures them up in collages; Joy Garnett continues her project of painting the contemporary political landscape, in this case in images derived from news reports of burning Paris immigrant neighborhoods. Stellan Holm Gallery, 524 West 24th Street, (212) 627-7444, stellanholm.com, through Sept. 8. (Cotter)
 'NEOINTEGRITY' Everybody knows that artists make the best exhibition curators. They have great eyes, highly personal interests, enthusiasms, opinions and social circles packed with a surprising variety of other artists, including many not on the establishment radar. There are lots of surprises in this summer extravaganza organized by the painter Keith Mayerson, beginning with its size: 190 artists displayed in a space approximately the size of a small one-bedroom apartment. Some of the names are well known (Ross Bleckner, Jane Freilicher, Dana Schutz), others may be new (Chris Bogia, Matt Boruso, Andrew Madrid); all are integral to Mr. Mayerson's vision of a Muchness Sublime. Derek Eller Gallery, 615 West 27th Street, (212) 206-6411, derekeller.com, through Aug. 24. (Cotter)
 'SUBSTANCE & SURFACE' This impressively consistent but slyly varied group exhibition takes the modernist monochrome as its not-so-subtle subtext. Nearly everything on view has corners, a single dominating color and adheres to the wall one way or another. The theme is ostensible purity achieved by impure means, including sliced towel, unfurled cassette tape, homemade sandpaper, carpet, painted pebbles and pegboard. This 20th-century staple just keeps keeping on. Bortolami, 510 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2050, bortolamidayan.com, through Aug. 31. (Smith)
 PETER YOUNG: FOLDED MANDALA & OAXACAN PAINTINGS Complementing the larger survey of the artist's work at P.S. 1 (see above), this exhibition presents 10 brightly colored works from two additional series dating from 1972 to 1980: one of densely dotted mandalas, the other of spatially intricate grids. In both cases Mr. Young's debt to non-Western art is evident, and honored. Mitchell Algus Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 242-6242, through Aug. 25. (Smith)
 Galleries: Other
 MARTIN CREED: 'FEELINGS' Operating somewhere between a sardonic court jester and an art-world Martha Stewart (try this at home), the British Conceptualist Martin Creed pokes fun at the avant-garde while extending its traditions. Occupying 24 spacious galleries, this show includes marker-pen monochromes; sculptures consisting of stacks of beanbag chairs and sheets of plywood; a person who runs through the galleries every 10 minutes; videos of people engaged in basic bodily functions; and a gallery full of dark blue balloons that is the next best thing to an antigravitational chamber. Immense and provocative fun, the work also strikes deep at the heart of art and its role in the world. Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7598, through Sept. 16. (Smith)
 SOL LEWITT: 'DRAWING SERIES ...' If the greatness of Sol LeWitt, the Minimal-Conceptual artist who died in April at 78, has so far escaped you, this exhilarating show of 14 of his mind-teasing, eye-filling wall drawings from the late 1960s and early '70s may do the trick. Selected and arranged by the artist, they proceed in carefully sequenced contrasts and echoes that are both insightful and idiosyncratic. Since their generating instructions are part of their titles, they reduce the creative process to a short, highly visible straight line. But their crisp geometries, accumulating marks and radiating patterns force us to mind the gap between artistic thought and artistic action, to experience the inability of language to account fully for visual outcome. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, diabeacon.org, through Sept. 10. (Smith)
 Public Art
 MAD. SQ. ART 2007: ROXY PAINE This installation is made up of two stainless-steel tree sculptures, ''Conjoined'' and ''Defunct,'' and a glacierlike boulder, ''Erratic,'' by Mr. Paine. The tree sculptures are made from thousands of pieces of metal pipe and rod elements that have been cut, welded and polished. They are real enough to resemble actual trees but not so real that they form a continuum with the surrounding foliage. What captures your immediate attention is ''Conjoined,'' a 40-by-45-foot sculpture of two trees whose gleaming steel branches cantilever and then improbably connect in midair. It is impossible to tell where the branches of one tree begin and the other's end. But the piece is also beautifully eccentric, a futuristic fantasy of streamlined vegetation manufactured in imitation of the real thing, only much more appealing and exciting. Madison Square Park, 23rd Street and Fifth Avenue, (212) 538-4689, www.madisonsquarepark.org, through Dec. 31. (Genocchio) 
 Last Chance
 'AGITATION AND REPOSE' This group show opens with a very anxious object: a wall clock with spinning hands. It continues with Rainer Ganahl's bicycle ride into oncoming traffic, Holly Zausner's excellent, body-laden film tour of Berlin and Diana Al-Hadid's impressive sculptural combination of organ pipes and Gothic tracery, and concludes with Claire Watkins's image of what appears to be a detached nervous system. The real draw, though, is a group of six short videos by, and starring, Roman Signer: in one a helicopter buzzes him in bed; in another hay explodes through the floor as he sits reading; in a third a sudden explosion prompts him to start -- and finish -- a painting. Repose has never been this wonderful artist's thing. Tanya Bonakdar Gallery, 521 West 21st Street, (212) 414-4144, tanyabonakdargallery.com; closes Friday. (Cotter) 
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY: 'GOLD,' Having delved into pearls, diamonds and amber, the museum applies its time-tested show-and-tell formula to the premier precious natural material, gold. This astounding array of art, artifacts and natural samples -- larded with fascinating facts and tales -- ranges from prehistoric times to the present. Stops along the way include pre-Columbian empires, sunken treasure, Bangladesh dowry rituals and the moon landing. It turns out that gold comes from the earth in forms as beautiful as anything man has thought to do with it, but that gold ingots have a brute force all their own. You are certain to emerge with mind boggled and eyes dazzled. Central Park West and 79th Street,(212) 769-5100, amnh.org, closes Sunday. (Smith)
 'BANKS VIOLETTE' This is a big show for Banks Violette. It's his first New York gallery exhibition in five years. Split between two locales, it includes relics from Mr. Violette's favored source, heavy metal music: an exploded drum kit; graphite drawings of a skull ring and an inverted American flag; free-standing walls connected to nitrogen tanks; amplifier parts and soundproofing panels cast in salt; and speakers that emit a low, droning rumble. At Gladstone, a large, collapsed-stage sculpture evokes Dan Flavin and Sol LeWitt. Mr. Violette's attempts at fusing the heroic, theatrical aspects of 1960s and '70s art with the masculinist bombast of heavy metal haven't fully panned out yet, but he remains an interesting artist to watch. Team, 83 Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 279-9219, teamgal.com, closes Friday. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9300, gladestonegallery.com, closes Friday. (Schwendener)
 'CECI N'EST PAS ... THIS IS NOT' Is the art world your whole world? This group show assumes that it is and holds a mirror up to it. Everywhere you turn, someone is either selling something, or talking about how to sell, or worrying about not selling. Alejandro Diaz sets up a mini-shop to hawk handwritten posters, individually priced at $18.95, plus tax, with a complete set of 30 going for $500. Pablo Helguera, David Kramer, Laura Parnes and Michael Smith dispense cautionary career tips. Neil Goldberg reviews masterpieces that might have been. Cary Leibowitz brazenly drops celebrity names on cheapo coffee mugs. Sara Meltzer Gallery, 525-531 West 26th Street, (212) 727-9330, closes Friday. (Cotter)
 'COLOUR BEFORE COLOR' The spelling discrepancy in the show's title is meant to indicate that color photography as we now know it was not the exclusive achievement of Americans like William Eggleston and Stephen Shore, but was also nurtured by a group of European photographers whose efforts range from the subtle still lifes of Luigi Ghirri (which are similar to those of Irving Penn) to claustrophobic close-ups of sunbathers by the Spanish photographer Carlos Perez Siquier. The show, organized by the British photographer Martin Parr, is a must-see for anyone interested in the medium. Hasted Hunt, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 627-0006, hastedhunt.com, closes Friday. (Smith)
 'FULL COLOR' Color Field abstraction is back in sight, and this show offers some classic examples: a 1960 Morris Louis pour painting that looks fresh-minted; a pristine 1970, nontarget Kenneth Noland; an explosive 1980 Friedel Dzubas. Two kooky Anthony Caros keep them company. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com, closes Friday. (Cotter)
 'LAYING BRICKS' Michael Ned Holte, a young Los Angeles art critic, brings together four young American and European artists who all work additively, whether their efforts tend toward painting or sculpture or are photo-based. ''Just one thing after another,'' Donald Judd's explanation of the compositional tactic in his repeating boxes, takes on new meaning here. Wallspace, 619 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 594-9478, wallspacegallery.com, closes Friday. (Smith)
 MARLeNE MOCQUET: RECENT PAINTINGS This young French painter presents small, vaporous, psychologically charged canvases -- occupied by hapless, mostly hybrid beings -- that might be called illustrational, not the least for the way their titles narrate very specific events. But the paint handling is deft and dazzlingly varied and the color sense exciting. Like Indian miniatures, these Symbolist-Surrealism cartoons reward close viewing. Freight & Volume, 542 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-8700, volumegallery.com, closes Friday. (Smith)
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'IMPRESSIONIST AND EARLY MODERN PAINTINGS: THE CLARK BROTHERS COLLECT,' The Met examines the lives and collecting habits of two feuding brothers, heirs to the Singer sewing machine fortune, who were among the leading 20th-century art patrons. Sterling Clark was founder of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute in Williamstown, Mass. His younger brother, Stephen, was a trustee of both the Met and the Museum of Modern Art (and established the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y.). The brothers shared a love of Renoir, Degas and Americans like Winslow Homer, but Sterling ''drew the line'' at Cezanne and considered Matisse and Picasso ''bad painters and fakers.'' Tracking their taste and how they dispersed their collections is interesting -- and perhaps instructive for contemporary collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org, closes Sunday. (Schwendener)
 THE NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN: 'PARADISE IN PRINT,' Watercolors, folio editions, rare books and prints from the 18th through the mid-20th centuries reveal how closely linked natural and human histories have been in the Caribbean over the last 500 years. Engravings and lithographs of cash crops like coffee, chocolate, tobacco and sugar (nicknamed ''green gold'') are accompanied by images from Mark Catesby's 18th-century natural history, which served as the model for Audubon's ''Birds of America''; images of African slaves and colonialists; selections from the 19th-century French lithographer Etienne Denisse's book ''Flora of America''; and Nikolai Josephi Jacquin's extraordinary ''Selectarum Stirpium Americanarum Historia,'' published around 1780 in Vienna and illustrated with watercolors painted directly into the book. (It was purchased for the Botanical Garden by Andrew Carnegie.) Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, (718) 817-8616, nybg.org, closes Sunday. (Schwendener)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (90%); FILM (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTER MONITORS (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); CD & DVD DRIVES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



287 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Lenders in Canada Act to Fix a Problem in Their Debt Market

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Banks and money managers came together Thursday to end a credit crisis in an arcane branch of Canada's debt market.
 The group signed an agreement that is expected to resolve a situation where some nonbank holders of asset-backed commercial paper were unable to roll over their debt and get their banks to provide emergency financing. 
 Unlike the subprime mortgages causing turmoil in markets in the United States, the debt in the Canadian liquidity problem was viewed as generally of high quality. It is made up largely of credit card loans, auto loans and leases and market-rate mortgages that have been repackaged into short-term securities. 
 ''This does not appear to be an issue of the underlying assets,'' said David Wolf, the head of Canadian economics and chief strategist of Merrill Lynch Canada. ''The flare-up looks to be an outgrowth of increased risk aversion globally.''
 The specific problem resulted from another Canadian exception. Unlike their United States counterparts, Canadian banks are not required by regulators to give holders of commercial paper -- companies that have made the loans -- cash for liquidity on demand. Instead, they must extend cash only in the event of a ''market disruption,'' a determination that the government leaves up to the bankers.
 The Toronto-based Coventree, which has about 16 billion Canadian dollars ($14.8 billion) in asset-backed commercial paper, was the first of several companies that said the bankers would not provide it with cash after concluding that there was no market disruption.
 About 40 billion Canadian dollars in asset-backed commercial paper is held outside banks, in addition to about 75 billion Canadian dollars held by the country's five large chartered banks.
 On Wednesday, the Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec summoned several other pension plans, ABN Amro, Barclays Capital, UBS, the National Bank of Canada, the Desjardins Group, Deutsche Bank, HSBC and Merrill Lynch to its Montreal headquarters. 
 After a session that ran late Wednesday and resumed Thursday morning, the group agreed to convert asset-backed commercial paper, which normally matures in 30 to 60 days, into long-term notes with a floating interest rate. Until that happens, they have agreed not to make margin calls on holders of the paper for 150 days and to drop all current liquidity calls.
 ''This agreement that was published isn't necessarily a great solution for everyone,'' Mr. Wolf said. ''But what would happen if they said no?''
 Coventree, the Bank of Canada and the country's finance minister, Jim Flaherty, were among those who supported the plan. 
 Not everyone was convinced that the problem was solved. Despite the agreement, Coventree's shares fell 5.3 percent, to 3.70 Canadian dollars, below its 52-week high of 16.30 Canadian dollars.
 Nor will all investors be interested in the debt after its maturity extension begins. 
 Among them is Ken Anderson, who manages the United States and Canada money market funds for Fidelity Investments.
 ''They're going to take these extendible securities and turn them out into a three- and five-year portion of the curve,'' Mr. Anderson said during a conference call with investment advisers. ''We cannot invest out past one year. So I'm not sure what type of solution this is. I think the holders of these securities will be forced to sell and most likely take some losses in their funds.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PAPER (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); DEBT NOTES (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); COVENTREE INC (84%); CAISSE DE DEPOT & PLACEMENT DU QUEBEC (65%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (59%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (59%); NATIONAL BANK OF CANADA (53%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%); MOUVEMENT DES CAISSES DESJARDINS (52%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (59%); DBK (FRA) (59%); DBK (BIT) (59%); DBETN (JSE) (59%); DBA (ASX) (59%); DB (NYSE) (59%); ABO (ASX) (59%); NA (TSX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (59%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (59%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (59%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (59%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (52%); SIC6062 CREDIT UNIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

PERSON: JIM FLAHERTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%) ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



288 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: Stronger Asia Seen as Better Able to Deflect Ripples, or Big Waves, From U.S.

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and JEREMY W. PETERS; Keith Bradsher reported from Hong Kong, and Jeremy W. Peters from New York.

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
In the past, when economic growth has stalled in the rest of the world, the United States has usually been there to pick up the slack. Now that dynamic is reversed. 
 With stock markets plunging around the world on financial worries clearly marked ''made in U.S.A.,'' and with growing concerns about a possible American economic slowdown, a booming global economy could help contain the damage and even assist the United States in absorbing the shock of the collapsing housing bubble and a credit squeeze.
 ''We're no longer in a world where the United States sneezes and the rest of the world catches a cold,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist with Global Insight, an economics research firm in Waltham, Mass. ''You've got strong growth overseas, and it's been kind of like a lifeline to the United States from the rest of the world.'' 
 But in Asia, where growth has been strongest in recent years, many countries are still worried that American troubles could drag them down as well. Experts say those nations are less interested in extending a lifeline to the United States than in discovering whether they have reduced their ties to the American consumer. 
 Countries in Asia, particularly China, have started chafing at their dependence on the thirst of Americans for imported goods, on the sway of the American dollar around the world and on American financial institutions.
 It is true, Asian business executives and economists say, that fundamental economic changes have limited Asia's need for American consumers and financial markets. But it is still not clear, they say, how much effect the current financial turmoil is likely to have outside the United States.
 ''Definitely the reliance on the U.S. economy, particularly from the Asian economies, has lessened a bit over the last five to seven years,'' said Sanjay Mehta, the chief executive of Essar Shipping of India. ''There will be an impact -- I don't see that there will be no impact -- but less of an impact than we saw in 2001 and 2002, when the Internet bubble crashed.''
 Though the European Union as a whole is close to the scale of the American economy, the United States still has the largest, most powerful economy in the world. With a gross domestic product of more than $13 trillion, it is three times the size of the second-largest economy, Japan, which remains just ahead of China. But the improvements overseas have given the United States a lesser role in shaping the ups and downs of global economic activity.
 ''There has been a decoupling of the U.S. economy from the world economy,'' said Simon Johnson, chief economist of the International Monetary Fund in Washington. ''It's almost as if everyone in the world is on the uptake and the United States is on the downtake.'' 
 Indeed, many in Asia have been taking pride in the extent to which the region seems to have been weaning itself from reliance on the United States economy.
 At the Canton Fair in April, executives from across China were enthusiastic about sales prospects in Europe, as China's exports to Europe had surpassed exports to the United States in February.
 In Baharbari, a small village of thatched huts at the end of a muddy track in northeastern India, most of the young men have left for jobs on housing construction sites in northwestern India, part of a broader boom in domestic demand across much of Asia.
 And in Bangkok, cement executives like Prachai Leophairatana exude confidence when talking about exports to Vietnam, part of a surge in commerce among East Asian nations that has made the region the world's fastest-growing center of trade. 
 When the United States last went through a slowdown, six years ago, Asian exports went from 25 percent growth in 2000 to a 15 percent drop in 2002. But part of that plunge reflected the weakness of European and Japanese economies then, and these appear much stronger now.
 As businesses like Mizuho Financial Group in Japan and RAMS Home Loan Group in Australia encounter problems with subprime mortgages written in the United States, suspicion is also emerging about a trans-Pacific financial link that may have been deeper than anyone realized: the United States may have been paying for a lot of its imports in recent years with mortgage securities of dubious value.
 ''It's possible that the U.S. financial institutions are smart enough to have passed on the risk to Europe and elsewhere,'' said Kui Wai Li, the director of the Asian business research center at the City University of Hong Kong.
 During the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998, the ''tiger'' economies of Southeast Asia proved to be paper tigers, hobbled by poor corporate governance and uncontrolled borrowing. Now, from the Asian perspective, the United States is seen as the place where regulation has been weak and where consumers and businesses alike borrowed with little restraint.
 ''The Asians do not trust the American economy any longer,'' said Frank-Jurgen Richter, a specialist in Asian economies who is the president of Horasis, a research group in Geneva. ''America is not the engine of globalization any more. They are looking for a new engine, and it might be China, it might be Europe -- but it's not the U.S.'' 
 Although Asian economies may not need the United States as much as they once did, financial and commercial ties remain strong and could prove to be a drag on the region. Moreover, said Lewis S. Alexander, chief economist at Citigroup, ''if the United States economy were to go into a recession, you'd see a bigger impact abroad. The fact the world has done relatively well when the U.S. has had a slowdown does not mean if the U.S. had a recession, the rest of the world could go on relatively unaffected.''
 Indeed, as a percentage of its total economic output, China is still more than 25 times as dependent on exports to the United States as the United States is on exports to China.
 The bulk of Chinese exports to the United States are products for which the components are largely imported from elsewhere in Asia and snapped together by rows of Chinese workers under fluorescent lights. A serious slowdown in such businesses, for which China supplies little more than cheap labor, could still result in large-scale layoffs.
 Yet the consequences could be limited in a country where investment in roads, bridges, housing complexes and other fixed assets rose more than 25 percent in the first seven months of this year, compared with the period a year earlier.
 Meanwhile, while the dollar has strengthened against the euro and the British pound as traders have sought a safe haven from global financial troubles, it has tumbled this week against the yen and could fall more broadly if the housing debacle proves to have delivered a body blow to the entire American economy.
 For American industry, the broader decline in the dollar, coupled with stronger growth abroad, has served to energize exports by making American goods more competitive overseas.
 For example, Power Curbers of Salisbury, N.C., which makes equipment to lay roads, curbs and sidewalks, is counting on foreign business to keep it growing this year. International orders, which now come from more than 80 countries, are up about 25 percent, helping the company expand despite a 10 percent drop in domestic business this year.
 ''They're just growing like crazy,'' said Dyke Messinger, the company's chief executive. ''Let's say there's more trouble to come in housing. Then international business will be critical.'' 
 But a weaker dollar would be a problem not just for Asian exporters, which would find it harder to compete in the American market, but also for Asian central banks, which have been the biggest buyers of dollars in recent years. China's central bank, the People's Bank of China, keeps about two-thirds of its $1.3 trillion foreign exchange reserves in dollars.
 That includes what experts describe as a $100 billion holding of American securities backed by mortgages, although that may have declined in value recently.
 If the dollar drops a lot further, Asia could be in trouble. So the man most watched in Asia now by business elites and government policy makers is Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, who is under pressure to cut interest rates to reassure Wall Street and stabilize shaky markets.
 ''If you do reduce the interest rate, the dollar will fall,'' said Mr. Mehta of the Indian shipping concern. ''That is a major worry for most of the people in Asia right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Brani port terminal in Singapore. Singapore is a hub for Asian trade, which has become less dependent on the United States. (pg. C4)(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICKY LOH/REUTERS)
 Through the Nasdaq looking glass in Times Square darkly, and then not so darkly, as the markets largely recover from steep early losses to close flat. (pg. C1)(PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

COMPANY: ESSAR SHIPPING LTD (53%)

TICKER: ESSARSHPNG (NSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488390 OTHER SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR WATER TRANSPORTATION (53%)

PERSON: NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (54%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); CHINA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



289 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-13
 Death Toll of Peru Quake Over 400, Officials Say
 A day after an earthquake devastated cities along Peru's southern coast, government officials put the death toll at 437, with at least 17,000 people displaced and with wide areas without power, telephone service or road access. A spokeswoman for the National Civil Defense Institute said the toll was sure to rise. A8 
 Alliance of Moderates in Iraq 
 Workers continued to pull bodies from the rubble of Tuesday's truck bombings near the Syrian border as Iraq's prime minister, a Shiite, and its president, a Kurd, announced an alliance of moderates in Parliament. A8
 Musharraf Begins Campaign
 As Gen. Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan began his campaign for another five-year term as president, senior figures in the governingparty warned that the Supreme Court would almost certainly block his nomination and declare it unconstitutional. A3 
 U.S. and Israel Sign Arms Deal
 Israel and the United States signed a deal to give Israel $30 billion in military aid over the next decade in what officials called a long-term investment in peace. They insisted that the deal was not dependent on a simultaneous American plan for $20 billion in sales of sophisticated arms to its Arab allies. A6 
 Possible Kazakh Smoking Gun
 What appear to be internal documents detailing an exchange between Kazakhstan's intelligence service and President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev suggest Kazakhstan conducted operations against international monitors during the presidential election in 2005, aimed at swaying the monitors' conclusions. A13 
 Italy Seeks to Avert Mob War
 The police moved to head off a mob war as investigators focused on the theory that one of six Italian men killed Wednesday in Germany had been responsible for the killing last Christmas of the wife of a leader in the 'Ndrangheta crime group. A10
 NATIONALA14-21
 Padilla Found Guilty Of Terrorism Conspiracy
 In a significant victory for the Bush administration, a federal jury found Jose Padilla guilty of terrorism conspiracy charges. Mr. Padilla, who became one of the first Americans designated an ''enemy combatant,'' now faces life in prison. A1 
 Giuliani's Time at Ground Zero
 As Rudolph W. Giuliani campaigns around the country highlighting his stewardship of New York after the Sept. 11 attacks, he is widely hailed for bringing order to a traumatized city. But he has also raised the hackles of rescue and recovery workers by likening his experience to theirs. A1 
 2 Dead in Mine Rescue Effort
 Two rescue workers were killed and seven others were injured when a seismic jolt caused an accident during an attempt to reach six men who have been trapped at a mine in Utah since Aug. 6, according to officials. A16
 Details of Meeting Emerge
 Notes taken by F.B.I. Director Robert S. Mueller III say that Attorney General John Ashcroft was ''feeble'' and ''clearly stressed'' after a hospital-room meeting in which White House aides tried to persuade him to sign an extension for eavesdropping without warrants. A14 
 Satellite Plan Criticized
 A new plan to allow emergency response, border control and, eventually, law enforcement agencies greater access to sophisticated satellites that monitor American territory has drawn sharp criticism from civil liberties advocates. A16 
 Nursing Home Trial Opens
 In opening arguments, prosecutors said that the owners of a nursing home in St. Bernard Parish, La., that became a watery tomb for 35 elderly residents after Hurricane Katrina, were criminally negligent in not removing the residents as the hurricane approached. A19 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-8
 Fewer City Pay Phones, But Still a Cash Cow
 The number of pay phones in New York City is falling, as it is throughout the country. But in a phenomenon unique to New York, the phones are more valuable than ever, thanks to intense competition among advertisers for attention in a city of eight million. A1
 Stricter Aircraft Rules
 The New York State Ethics Commission tightened rules on the use of state aircraft by public officials, the first concrete change to emerge following a scathing report issued by the attorney general's office last month. B1 
 Buyers' Mortgage Woes
 Turmoil in the international mortgage market is starting to make it harder for New Yorkers to get large loans. Banks have been increasing rates on so-called jumbo mortgages, brokers and lawyers say. B1
 BUSINESS DAYC1-10
 Reacting to Credit Panic
 In the 21st century, investors can react to events around the world instantaneously. So why are they reacting so slowly to the credit panic? It seems that information may arrive instantly, but insight takes longer. A1 
 A Taciturn Secretary
 When the Treasury Secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., took office, he was hailed as a person equipped to deal with crisis, but he has made few remarks during the recent financial turmoil. C1 
 Containing a Stock Slide
 When economic growth has stalled in the rest of the world, the United States has been there to pick up the slack. With international stock markets and concerns about a possible American economic slowdown, a booming global economy could help contain the damage. C1
 Business DigestC2
 OBITUARIESB7
 Max Roach
 A founder of modern jazz who rewrote the rules of drumming in the 1940s, breaking musical barriers and defying listeners' expectations, he was 83. A1
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: The Padilla conviction; Mr. Bernanke's moment; more fears about China; Francis X. Clines on the Queens library system.
 Columns: Paul Krugman and David Brooks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); VERDICTS (88%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); JURY TRIALS (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); ARMS TRADE (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (55%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (69%); RUDY GIULIANI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) PERU (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); SYRIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



290 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: With Markets Moving Wildly, Insight Suffers

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Twenty-first-century financial markets react with lightning speed to events halfway around the world. Investors in China can immediately see what happened in New York and make trades in London based on the news.
 So why is the credit panic of 2007 being played out in slow motion? 
 One reason is that those involved have never seen anything like this before. Information may arrive instantly, but insight takes longer. 
 It seemed unlikely, if not absurd, that the American economy and credit system could be shaken because a few people with poor credit fell behind on their mortgages. Why should that slow consumer spending? Why should it affect companies that made mortgage loans only to people with good credit? Why should it bring a halt to the leveraged buyout boom?
 Perhaps none of those things should happen. But fears that they may take place have sent the stock market on a wild ride over the last month, culminating yesterday with the Dow Jones industrial average falling more than 300 points before gaining nearly all of them back in the final hour of trading, amid speculation that the Federal Reserve would find a way to keep troubled financial companies from failing. Not long ago -- four weeks, to be exact -- Larry A. Goldstone, the president of Thornburg Mortgage, a real estate investment trust, was feeling good. He had seen the subprime mortgage disaster unfold, and believed it was good for his company.
 ''The current credit crisis is the market environment today,'' he said in a conference call on July 20, as the stock rose above $27. ''The liquidity issues in the marketplace are creating a very, very nice opportunity for us. This is not a big surprise to us.'' 
 The way he saw it, the crisis was shaking out his competitors, the ones who had made those imprudent loans. With them gone, he could make more money.
 Within days, he bought 10,000 shares. The chairman and chief executive, Garrett Thornburg, invested almost $13 million in company stock. Four other insiders, including the chief financial officer, were also buyers.
 But last week, things got dicey. Thornburg Mortgage owned a lot of AAA-rated mortgage securities, and had borrowed up to 95 percent of their value. Now the lenders, suspecting the securities were worth less, wanted more cash. To get it, Thornburg had to sell securities, and few wanted to buy. Suddenly the commercial paper market, so willing to lend to Thornburg at small margins just weeks before, was not interested in lending even at much higher rates.
 As for the share price, it went into a free fall on Tuesday, amid rumors that the company could not meet its obligation. Trading was halted with the stock under $8. On Tuesday night, it conceded it was having trouble raising money to finance mortgages. It said the dividend it had promised to pay on Wednesday would be delayed by a month.
 But it insisted that it was not bankrupt. Even marking down the value of its assets to current market value, it said, it was worth $14.28 a share on Monday, down from $19.38 at the end of June. 
 That provided some reassurance, and since then the shares have climbed back above $12.
 Thornburg has prospered until now with a fairly simple formula. Organized as a REIT, it paid big dividends representing all of its taxable income. It grew by issuing more shares, which it could sell at prices above its book value because individual investors valued the high yield. The shares wound up in a lot of retirement accounts, and the fact that people paid more than book value enabled the book value per share to grow.
 The insiders profited hugely from that. The company gets away with not disclosing how much the bosses are paid because it is managed by a separate company owned by some of the bosses. That management company gets incentive fees based on the company's total book value and profits, a formula that would seem familiar to a hedge fund manager. Effectively, the bosses get a cut every time the company sells new stock, and keep getting cuts from those sales every year. 
 Now Thornburg, like many other companies, needs a quick unfreezing of the credit markets. But even if they get it -- if the Fed tells banks to rescue them with emergency loans -- many may find that they cannot safely operate with such high leverage. And without the leverage, profits will be harder to make even if Thornburg can charge more for mortgage loans.
 The unfortunate series of events that got us here -- remember the proverb in which a kingdom is lost for want of a nail -- began with a weakening housing market. That caused some mortgages to go into default, which raised questions about the value of mortgage securities and the credibility of the ratings that enabled the securities to be sold. 
 That led to the questioning of other types of loans that had been financed by selling packages of securities that were structures in similar ways to ones that had financed the mortgages. It became more difficult for companies to borrow. Now it seems to be spilling over to the real economy, with consumers getting nervous.
 ''We are going through a psychological event,'' Mr. Goldstone said. ''It has everybody in a panic. There is nothing fundamental here.'' 
 He may be wrong about that last part. There may not have been a fundamental change in the health of his business, but such a change is taking place in the credit markets. There, buyers with available cash are few, and many of them are in no hurry to buy when so many need to sell.
 It is sort of like a game of musical chairs in which the music stops and it turns out that all the chairs have vanished.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE High, low and close each day (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A1) Chart shows figures from May to August. ''Change in Direction'' Optimistic about the market, Thornburg executives bought stock, only to see company shares tumble. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets, S.E.C. filings)(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (74%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); FUNDRAISING (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (69%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

PERSON: GARRETT THORNBURG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



291 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 782 words

 BODY:
WILD MARKET SWINGS During a day of intense volatility, fed by rumors and fears over the credit squeeze, markets swooned before a late-afternoon rally. The Dow industrials were down as many as 340 points before ending at just 15 points under. The New York Stock Exchange said a record 5.73 billion shares were traded. 
 A CREDIT CRISIS LIKE NO OTHER Financial markets react with lightning speed to events halfway around the world. So why is the credit panic of 2007 being played out in slow motion? Information may arrive instantly, but insight takes longer. High & Low Finance: Floyd Norris. [A1.] 
 COUNTRYWIDE IMPROVISES Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest mortgage lender, found itself shut out of the short-term debt market, so it turned to 40 of the biggest banks, borrowing $11.5 billion to shore up its cash. [C1.] 
 A RESCUER NEEDS A LIFT In years past, the United States often picked up the slack when economic growth stalled in the rest of the world. Now the roles may be reversed, and a robust global economy may rescue an American economy beset by credit woes. [C1.] 
 PLAYING IT LOW KEY Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. was known as the Hammer at Goldman Sachs for his aggressive deal-making. But the financial disorder this August has brought few public appearances and only general reassurances on economic fundamentals from Mr. Paulson, above, who has left it to the Federal Reserve to act. [C1.] 
 HOME CONSTRUCTION STALLS The pace of new residential construction and the rate of building permits issued fell last month to their lowest points in more than a decade, the government reported, signs that the housing sector's decline is not over. [C4.] 
 TURMOIL HITS HOME The credit squeeze is starting to hit New Yorkers where they live. In Manhattan, where the average apartment costs $1.3 million, buyers are finding it harder to get jumbo mortgages, or banks are raising the rates at the last minute. [B1.] 
 HIGHER PROFIT FOR RETAILERS Three retailers -- J. C. Penney, Kohl's and Nordstrom -- all reported increases in quarterly profit. Penney and Kohl's said were helped by strong back-to-school sales, and Nordstrom raised its full-year earnings outlook. [C7.] 
 FLYING IN OCTOBER The Airbus A380, the world's largest passenger jet , will begin commercial service in October, when Singapore Airlines will receive its first of 19 of the planes after a costly two-year delay. [C7.] 
 DELL FALSIFIED RETURNS The senior management of Dell regularly falsified quarterly returns from 2003 through 2006 to create the appearance that the company had met sales targets, the computer maker disclosed. The accounting misconduct also resulted in inflated earnings, so the company will restate its net income for the period by $50 million to $150 million. The disclosures came after a yearlong internal probe. The Securities and Exchange Commission is also investigating. [C3.] 
 RIVALS TAKE ON THE T.S.E. 
 The Toronto Stock Exchange, for the first time in decades, is facing direct competition in its home market. [C6.] 
 Banks and money managers in Canada came together to end a credit crisis in an arcane branch of Canada's debt market, involving nonbank holders of asset-backed commercial paper. [C5.] 
 MORE UNITS FOR SALE Boston Scientific has added its cardiac and vascular surgery units to the list of businesses it wants to sell to reduce debt and focus on its core businesses. [C7.] 
 H.P. SURPASSES ESTIMATES 
 The Hewlett-Packard Company's third-quarter sales and profit breezed past Wall Street's estimates as the company continued to cash in on healthy sales of laptop computers and lucrative printing ink. Shares rose more than 2 percent on a higher financial forecast. [C3.] 
 FAKE BLOOD SUGAR TESTS A global hunt started by Johnson & Johnson has tracked to China counterfeit versions of the OneTouch Test Strip used by 10 million Americans to measure their blood sugar levels. [C7.] 
 JUDGE RULES FOR WHOLE FOODS A Federal District Court judge in Washington refused the Federal Trade Commission's request to block Whole Foods Market's bid to acquire Wild Oats Markets. [C3.] 
 CHOOSING TO WATCH ADS For generations, advertising interrupted the entertainment that Americans wanted to read, hear or watch. Now, in a turnabout, advertising is increasingly being presented as entertainment on several new Web site that offer all ads, all the time. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.] 
 MORE BILLBOARD THAN PHONE Pay phones on New York sidewalk often don't work, and they seem irrelevant in an age of cellphones and BlackBerrys, but they are cash cows for the city budget, generating more than $60 million annually in advertising revenue. [A1.]

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); RETAILERS (66%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (65%); BUILDING PERMITS (64%); AIRLINES (64%); MISCONDUCT (62%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (62%); SALES PLAN (60%); COMPUTER MAKERS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); C6L (SGX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



292 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: A Day of Wild Market Swings and Global Anxiety

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and LOUIS UCHITELLE; Vikas Bajaj and Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
What looked as if it would be one of the worst days since Wall Street began its midsummer swoon ended yesterday with a whimper, not a bang.
 Volatility ruled as investors tried to sort through a cacophony of market chatter: rumors of an emergency meeting by the Federal Reserve, fears that the nation's largest mortgage issuer might fail, comments from the Treasury secretary and a steep sell-off in markets overseas.
 At one point during the trading session, major stock indexes were down more than 10 percent from their peak last month -- the threshold for the market's fall to be considered a ''correction.'' But by the close, the overall market had escaped that territory, powered by a rush of buy orders in the last hour, leaving Wall Street not far from where it ended the day on Wednesday. 
 Emotion and psychology, not financial fundamentals, were mostly at work. And when stocks finally inched into the black just before the market closed, traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange burst into a chorus of cheers. The exchange said that a record 5.73 billion shares were traded yesterday.
 ''It was a pretty remarkable turn, and I don't think anybody can really make sense of it,'' said Tobias M. Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist for Citigroup. ''It's not about any fundamental development, because we didn't get any news today that would push you any one way or another.''
 But there were certainly some powerful impulses coursing through the market. As Wall Street has tumbled, expectations have mounted that the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee might take the unusual step of cutting interest rates in advance of its next meeting, on Sept. 18. The justification would be incipient damage to the economy brought on by the market turmoil. 
 Indeed, the Fed's injection of billions of dollars into the banking system over the last week has at times suggested a de facto rate cut, as the main instrument of the central bankers -- the federal funds rate banks use to lend each other overnight money -- has sometimes fluctuated well below its target level of 5.25 percent. With so much additional money available to banks to support lending, the federal funds rate fell as low as 4 percent.
 But that was not the Fed's intention. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said in a statement yesterday that it would continue to inject money into the system daily ''to facilitate trading at rates around the operating objective of 5.25 percent.''
 Many economists maintain that the economy has not yet shown enough damage from the recent market turmoil for the Fed to justify a rate cut. Indeed, one Fed policy maker, William Poole, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, publicly opposed any rate cut before the Sept. 18 meeting of the policy-making committee. 
 ''There's no need for the Federal Reserve -- unless there is some sort of calamity taking place -- to make a decision before the next scheduled meeting, Sept. 18,'' Mr. Poole said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Wednesday. He added that he did not see ''any impact as yet on the real economy.''
 In Washington, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed's chairman, seemed to want to keep his options open. Michelle A. Smith, a spokeswoman for the chairman, said, ''Mr. Poole is speaking for himself and not for the committee.''
 After a wild ride, in which the Dow industrials at one point were down over 340 points, the average closed at 12,845.78, off just 15.69 points for the day, or 0.1 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index eked out a gain of 0.3 percent, and the Nasdaq composite was off 0.3 percent.
 The stocks leading the late comeback were those of large investment banks like Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Bear Stearns, which have been battered lately as the meltdown in credit markets unfolded. 
 Bear Stearns, in particular, has been at the center of the storm. In one of the earliest signs that problems had spread to the biggest players on Wall Street, Bear Stearns said in July that two of its hedge funds invested in mortgage-backed securities had collapsed. But yesterday, its stock rose 12.9 percent, to close at $116.44, on rumors that Chinese investors were planning to buy a large stake.
 The question preoccupying Wall Street lately has been whether credit is drying up. Despite the other issues on investors' minds yesterday, credit woes were again at the forefront. More problems became apparent in the mortgage market as Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest mortgage lender, said it had tapped $11.5 billion in emergency loans from 40 of the world's largest banks, as it seeks to shore up its cash position.
 The company, which relies heavily on raising money from Wall Street, acted a day after a prominent analyst suggested it might have to file for bankruptcy if banks and investors shut off the spigot of money to Countrywide. Shares of the company fell 11 percent yesterday, after falling 13 percent Wednesday. The stock is down more than 50 percent for the year.
 The reversal of fortune in the housing market was further illustrated by Commerce Department figures released yesterday showing that construction of new homes and building permits issued last month fell to the lowest levels in more than a decade.
 The market tumult also put a dent in oil prices yesterday, even as two tropical disturbances posed some threat of disruption to oil production and refining in the Gulf of Mexico. Whether the turbulence in financial markets will have larger ramifications for the American economy is still unclear. And each day that stocks take a pummeling, the outlook becomes more and more murky.
 Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, told The Wall Street Journal in an interview published yesterday that market troubles ''will extract a penalty'' on economic growth, but he said he did not believe a recession was likely. In a subsequent interview with The New York Times, Mr. Paulson said: ''It could take a while to work through this situation. It could be that there will be more unpleasant news on the way, some organizations that don't exist and some losses.''
 But Mr. Paulson said he was confident Wall Street would snap back. ''The markets are resilient,'' he said. ''They can absorb those losses.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A trader at the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange, top, and another in Hong Kong, bottom, probably had a shared sense of angst this week as they watched the global markets tumble. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATACHA PISARENKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMANTHA SIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE-GETTY IMAGES)
Traders in the coffee pit at the mercantile exchange in Sao Paulo, Brazil, negotiated during the morning session yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURICIO LIMA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE-GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C5)
Through the Nasdaq looking glass in Times Square darkly, and then not so darkly, as the markets largely recover from steep early losses to close flat. (pg. C1)(PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHS: The graphs show The Dow minute-by-minute (pg. C5)
Dow Jones industrial average (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (74%) BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



293 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Construction Falls To Lowest Level in a Decade

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
As more fallout from the mortgage market squeeze becomes apparent, there was yet another sign yesterday that the worst of the trauma in the housing sector may not be over. 
 The pace of new residential construction and the rate of building permits issued fell last month to their lowest points in more than a decade, the government reported. The picture is even gloomier than it was a year earlier, when the housing market was already in a state of decline.
 The annual rate of building permits issued last month stood at 1.4 million, 22.6 percent lower than the rate last July. The rate of construction on new homes also fell to 1.4 million, which was 20.9 percent lower than a year earlier.
 ''The bottom isn't here. It's not even in sight yet,'' said Richard F. Moody, chief economist with Mission Residential, a real estate investment firm in Austin, Tex.
 Builders and developers are scaling back as Americans are finding it more difficult and more expensive to obtain mortgages. And as credit standards tighten across the entire lending industry, mortgage companies are finding it difficult to raise cash and to sell their loan portfolios.
 Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest mortgage lender, said yesterday that it had tapped $11.5 billion in emergency loans from 40 of the world's largest banks, seeking to shore up its finances.
 The difficulties facing mortgage companies have made builders anxious, and they are responding by cutting back, said Michelle Meyer, an economist with Lehman Brothers. ''They're aware of what's going on in the mortgage market, and they're concerned about it. And that's adding to pessimism among builders.''
 The latest construction numbers showed that every region of the country has felt the squeeze. Compared with a year earlier, the rate of building permits issued in July fell 12.5 percent in the Northeast, 22.2 percent in the Midwest, 25.6 percent in the South and 20.7 percent in the West. 
 New-home construction fell everywhere except in the Northeast, where it increased 6.1 percent at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, compared with last July. On an unadjusted basis, however, construction in the Northeast fell.
 In the Midwest, the adjusted rate of construction dropped 17.5 percent. In the South, it fell 26.3 percent; in the West, 21.5 percent. 
 Economists worry about a ripple effect if the credit market gets tighter, cutting off loans for more individuals and corporations. Stricter borrowing conditions could cause home sales to fall even more, which could in turn depress prices further. And the effect of falling home prices could cut into consumer spending, which would harm economic growth.
 ''The question is how long it persists,'' Ms. Meyer said. ''And timing the bottom is very difficult right now because of all the moving parts.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: ''Housing Starts'' New private housing construction and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) ''Jobless Claims'' Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



294 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Sales Improve for 3 Retailers, Pushing Profits Higher

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The department store owner J. C. Penney said yesterday that quarterly profit inched higher, topping Wall Street expectations, generated by back-to-school sales and new private-label brands. 
 Kohl's, a midpriced retailer, also beat Wall Street estimates on strong back-to-school sales, while the upscale department store Nordstrom reported higher quarterly net profit and raised its full-year earnings outlook.
 Penney, based in Plano, Tex., said net profit for the second quarter that ended Aug. 4 was $182 million, or 81 cents a share, compared with $179 million, or 76 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Excluding a charge of 2 cents a share related to debt, earnings from continuing operations were 80 cents a share, 2 cents better than analysts' average forecast, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Second-quarter sales rose 3.6 percent to $4.39 billion, below analysts' average estimate of $4.45 billion. Comparable-store sales or sales at stores open at least a year, a key measure of financial health, increased 1.9 percent.
 Penney's chief executive, Myron E. Ullman III, said during a call with analysts that the company was facing ''a difficult economic environment.'' 
 ''We know that higher energy prices and the impact of the slowdown of the housing markets are weighing on our customers' minds,'' Mr. Ullman said.
 Penney has been working to increase sales by offering more fashionable merchandise and adding private brands, like Ambrielle intimate apparel and Liz & Co. by Liz Claiborne.
 Kohl's earnings came to $269.2 million, or 83 cents a share, for the second quarter, compared with $232.4 million, or 69 cents a share, in the year-ago period.
 Analysts on average had expected 82 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Total sales rose 8.7 percent to $3.6 billion. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 1.3 percent.
 Kohl's, based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., is ramping up its offerings with the introduction of Vera Wang clothing and jewelry and Food Network kitchen tools.
 At Nordstrom, second-quarter net profit increased to $180.4 million, or 71 cents a share, from $178.8 million, or 67 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Analysts, on average, had expected earnings of 70 cents, according to Reuters Estimates.
 Sales rose 5.2 percent to $2.39 billion, helped by strength in designer apparel, accessories and men's clothing.
 Sales at stores open at least a year rose 5.9 percent, above the company's expectation of a rise in the low single digits.
 Nordstrom, based in Seattle, now expects full-year 2007 earnings of $2.91 to $2.97 a share. It earlier forecast earnings of $2.81 to $2.90 a share.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A back-to-school display at a J. C. Penney in Phoenix. The back-to-school season helped Penney's profit climb to $182 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT YORK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRIVATE LABELS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BRANDING (77%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); LINGERIE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MEN'S CLOTHING (64%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

PERSON: MYRON E ULLMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



295 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: At Treasury, The Secretary Waits It Out

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
What happened to the Hammer?
 After decades at Goldman Sachs, where his nickname came from his aggressive deal-making, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. was hailed last year when he took office as especially equipped to manage potential market crises.
 But the financial disorder this August has brought few public appearances and only general reassurances on economic fundamentals from Mr. Paulson, who has left it to the Federal Reserve to act. There has been no talk of bailouts, policy changes, new federal regulations or other Treasury actions to stem the contagion in global markets.
 ''I don't believe that more regulation of private pools of capital, or more regulations or laws in general, would insulate investors from losses or would be effective,'' Mr. Paulson said in an interview with The New York Times on Thursday. ''I don't think it's constructive right now in the middle of this market turmoil to start pointing fingers and making specific policy recommendations.''
 While the Fed usually takes the lead in times of crisis, Treasury secretaries have also played important roles by reassuring the public that they have a grip on the markets' problems and stand ready to address the financial system's vulnerabilities. But Treasury officials have also always been cautious about predicting which way markets will go, knowing that their comments can backfire embarrassingly. 
 The administration's upbeat comments last week, for example, almost seemed to be mocked by subsequent market declines. And after President Bush said there was ''enough liquidity'' in the system last week, the Federal Reserve the next day provided large infusions of cash. 
 Still, many on Wall Street and in Washington expected that Mr. Paulson would have been more visible in talking about the economy over the last two weeks, especially considering his reputation for seizing the agenda. 
 ''It's reasonable that some time would elapse before the administration proposes anything,'' said Alan S. Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman, who is a professor of economics at Princeton. ''But I think they should be thinking about what, if anything, ought to be done after the dust has settled. They may not be doing that.'' 
 Mr. Paulson did say that the administration and Congress might want to look at the housing sector, especially the causes of the collapse in the subprime mortgage market, which has tightened lending across the board and rocked stock markets around the globe. He ruled out any immediate fixes, however.
 And while Mr. Paulson declined to be specific, Treasury officials indicated that the department may be rethinking its opposition to a request by the two giant federal mortgage agencies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to raise the caps on their mortgage portfolios in an effort to ease the credit squeeze. 
 Mr. Paulson first spoke about the market turmoil early last week and then went silent until an interview with The Wall Street Journal, which appeared on Thursday, saying the current market chaos might lower the national growth rate but would not cause a widespread downturn.
 ''You're not going to get a forecast from me as to how long this period will last,'' Mr. Paulson said in the Times interview, referring to the current instability. ''It could take a while to work through this situation. It could be that there will be more unpleasant news on the way, some organizations that don't exist and some losses.''
 ''But our economy is resilient,'' he added. ''The markets are resilient. They can absorb those losses. We've gone through challenging times in the markets, and we will rise to the challenge.''
 The market instability is nonetheless certain to prompt debate in Washington over whether the Bush administration has been right to resist more regulation of American capital markets, on the ground that regulations have made them less competitive with those in Europe.
 Mr. Paulson acknowledged that he was wary of making as many public comments about the markets as some may want.
 ''My view from the day I came down here was not to talk unless I had something to say,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''It's not my role to do play-by-play commentary on the markets.''
 The Treasury secretary said that, at meetings in Asia last year, he and his counterparts in the world's finance ministries and central banks discussed the possibility of an economic crisis like the one in 1998 after Russia defaulted.
 ''We weren't predicting financial turmoil, but we were saying that we've gone a long time without a 1998-type event,'' he said. ''These movements are inevitable and we agreed we should get ready. We talked about how the next time there was financial turmoil, it was going to be more global.''
 Mr. Paulson said the crisis, which began in a weak sector, spread to stronger sectors because of the ''unstructured nature of capital markets,'' the ''dramatic increase'' in private pools of capital beyond the reach of regulators, and the complexity of the derivatives and other products they invest in or trade.
 The Treasury secretary said that there needed to be more transparency in the system -- that is, more disclosure of the holdings and actions of hedge funds and other private pools of capital. ''How can you be against more transparency?'' he asked, adding that the best way of achieving it was through the funds drawing up their own best practices on disclosure and other safeguards.
 Arthur Levitt Jr., the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said in an interview that it was too early to say whether the voluntary approach would be adequate or whether federal regulators would need to play more of a role.
 ''After the past two weeks, I think you will hear calls for greater transparency throughout government, from the Treasury, from the S.E.C. and maybe even from the White House,'' said Mr. Levitt, who is heading an advisory panel on auditing reforms for the Treasury. ''But the last thing the country needs is false reassurance from political figures. Even less do they need calls for regulation that represent overkill.''
 Mr. Paulson said that, in principle, he also believed that regulators should try to eliminate fraud and market manipulation. He also said that it was inadvisable for them to try to eliminate risk in the economy, or for the government to bail out institutions that took unwise risks, unless the system itself were in peril.
 ''The genius of our system is that it recognizes that if you're going to give entrepreneurs and investors the chance to succeed and reap the benefits of their risk-taking, they also need the freedom to fail,'' he said.
 But many experts say that Mr. Paulson has to look at broader systemic failures in the current environment, even if he does not want to talk about them. For example, if the Fed lowers interest rates, and the European Central Bank raises interest rates as it is hinting it might do, would there be a run on the dollar?
 ''I view a lower dollar as both desirable and inevitable,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, who argues that an overvalued dollar is making imports artificially cheap. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson headed to a meeting this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (63%); SUBPRIME LENDING (63%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (80%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (80%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



296 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM IN REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: Film in Review

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
 PRIMO LEVI'S JOURNEY
Opens today in Manhattan
 Directed by Davide Ferrario
 92 minutes; not rated 
 Vividly impressionistic and delightfully curious, ''Primo Levi's Journey'' retraces the writer's arduous return from a newly liberated Auschwitz in January 1945 to his home in Italy more than eight months later. 
 Along the way, the Italian filmmaker Davide Ferrario and his crew seek out ordinary people with extraordinary stories. A grieving sister in Ukraine recalls the murder, in 2000, of her musician brother by Russian-speaking youths who objected to his Ukrainian songs. An eloquent resident of Pripyat, near Chernobyl, mourns the transformation of his home from ''a city of children'' into a ghost town.
 Whether mingling with neo-Nazis in Munich or dealing with the K.G.B. in Belarus, Mr. Ferrario keeps his eyes open and his opinions to himself. Merging excerpts from Mr. Levi's works (read by Chris Cooper) with amusing snippets of Soviet propaganda movies, the director employs a lively, inquisitive tone to counter his often melancholy Eastern European locations. This is exemplified in a vigorous interview with the Polish director Andrzej Wajda, conducted in the once-thriving steel mill of Nowa Huta and punctuated by rousing clips from his epic mystery ''Man of Marble.'' 
 Filmed in 2005 in locations as diverse as a zoo in Ukraine and a handbag factory in Romania, ''Primo Levi's Journey'' is a serendipitous reminder that the cultural consequences of capitalism are inseparable from -- and often less welcome than -- its economic promise. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

CORRECTION-DATE: September 05, 2007

 CORRECTION:
 A film review in Weekend on Aug. 17 about ''Marigold'' misstated its rating status. It has a PG-13 rating; it is not unrated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); WRITERS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); MUSIC (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (51%); HANDBAG & PURSE MFG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UKRAINE (90%); BELARUS (79%); ROMANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%); EUROPE (72%); GERMANY (69%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2009



297 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM IN REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1045 words

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
SUNFLOWER
 Opens today in Manhattan 
 Directed by Zhang Yang
 In Mandarin and English, with English subtitles
 129 minutes; not rated
 Like Douglas Sirk without the throw pillows, ''Sunflower'' is a shamelessly old-fashioned melodrama performed with such sincerity that resistance is futile. Following a troubled father-son relationship over more than 30 years in post-Cultural Revolution Beijing, the movie utilizes a simple dramatic structure to support a narrative filled with tumultuous social change.
 In the first of its three distinct chapters, set in 1976, 9-year-old Xiangyang (Zhang Fan) finds his unruly, pleasurable existence halted by the return of his upright father, Gengnian (Sun Haiying). A painter who can no longer draw after six years in a labor camp, Gengnian furiously nurtures his son's artistic talent despite the misgivings of his wife (a marvelous Joan Chen) and the violent rebellion of Xiangyang himself. The pattern for the next three decades has been set. 
 Written and directed by Zhang Yang, ''Sunflower'' parallels the upheavals in Xiangyang's life with those of his country, exploring the tension between tradition and modernity with insight and intimacy. With each subsequent chapter Mr. Zhang deftly reveals the massive changes in the urban landscape, as high-rise buildings tower over communal courtyards and cars block the passage of Gengnian's old bicycle. As Xiangyang struggles to fashion his own life, his quest reflects the hopes of an entire generation. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 MARIGOLD
 Opens today nationwide 
 Directed by Willard Carroll 
 110 minutes; not rated
 In ''Marigold,'' a light romantic comedy billed as the first United States-India co-production, India provides one of its biggest stars (the bad boy Salman Khan), gorgeous scenery (Goa, Bombay, Rajasthan), a genre (the Bollywood musical) and even the daughter of a Nobel Prize winner (the actress Nandana Sen, whose father is the economist Amartya Sen). 
 The United States contributes a television star (Ali Larter of ''Heroes''), a writer-director (Willard Carroll, whose credits are mainly in children's film and television) and an aspiration -- to capture the spirit of Bollywood -- that would have been considered a head-scratcher in Hollywood just a few years ago.
 Ms. Larter plays Marigold, a bratty American C+ movie star stranded in Goa. Lickety-split she is cast in a Bollywood film, providing the occasion for songs and dances, and lickety-split she tumbles for the film's suavely sincere choreographer, Prem (Mr. Khan, with his honeyed voice and winning smile).
 ''Marigold'' isn't quite the lark it could be. It doesn't really have Bollywood's antic, anything-goes quality, and Mr. Carroll's script lacks punch and dimension. Worse, Marigold's transformation from arrogant starlet to woman in love is more baffling than believable. 
 But Mr. Carroll knows his Bollywood stuff and, refreshingly, doesn't apologize for, or waste time explaining, an industry and a style that most Americans still regard as silly. Instead, he honors them. RACHEL SALTZ
 PRIMO LEVI'S JOURNEY
 Opens today in Manhattan
 Directed by Davide Ferrario
 92 minutes; not rated 
 Vividly impressionistic and delightfully curious, ''Primo Levi's Journey'' retraces the writer's arduous return from a newly liberated Auschwitz in January 1945 to his home in Italy more than eight months later.
 Along the way, the Italian filmmaker Davide Ferrario and his crew seek out ordinary people with extraordinary stories. A grieving sister in Ukraine recalls the murder, in 2000, of her musician brother by Russian-speaking youths who objected to his Ukrainian songs. An eloquent resident of Pripyat, near Chernobyl, mourns the transformation of his home from ''a city of children'' into a ghost town.
 Whether mingling with neo-Nazis in Munich or dealing with the K.G.B. in Belarus, Mr. Ferrario keeps his eyes open and his opinions to himself. Merging excerpts from Mr. Levi's works (read by Chris Cooper) with amusing snippets of Soviet propaganda movies, the director employs a lively, inquisitive tone to counter his often melancholy Eastern European locations. This is exemplified in a vigorous interview with the Polish director Andrzej Wajda, conducted in the once-thriving steel mill of Nowa Huta and punctuated by rousing clips from his epic mystery ''Man of Marble.'' 
 Filmed in 2005 in locations as diverse as a zoo in Ukraine and a handbag factory in Romania, ''Primo Levi's Journey'' is a serendipitous reminder that the cultural consequences of capitalism are inseparable from -- and often less welcome than -- its economic promise. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 THE KING OF KONG
 A Fistful of Quarters
 Opens today in New York, Los Angeles, Seattle and Austin, Tex. 
 Directed by Seth Gordon
 79 minutes
 You could get calluses just watching ''The King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters,'' Seth Gordon's documentary about two men vying for the high score in Donkey Kong. But even if you didn't lose years of your life to that deviously entertaining Reagan-era arcade game, Mr. Gordon's movie still succeeds as a portrait of a subculture: Kong-heads who videotape each game to send to Twin Galaxies, a governing body in Hollywood, Fla., empowered to validate high scores. 
 A taped triumph is less sweet than an arcade win in the presence of witnesses, though -- and that's what the soft-spoken challenger Steve Weibe, a science teacher, hopes to achieve against the champion Billy Mitchell, a hot-sauce mogul and a force behind Twin Galaxies whose gaming chops landed him on the cover of Life back when feathered hair was cool. 
 Hewing to a tiresomely predictable documentary template, Mr. Gordon deploys pop hits (notably ''Eye of the Tiger'') in a half-sincere, half-kidding way, pads his running time with repetitive montages, and portrays Mr. Weibe as a plaster saint and Mr. Mitchell as a pretentious, manipulative swine. (Although both have children, only Mr. Weibe is shown doting on them.) But the movie's ''Rocky'' formula proves irresistible anyway; unsurprisingly, New Line has commissioned Mr. Gordon to remake this story with actors. MATT ZOLLER SEITZ
 ''The King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned) for a brief sexual reference.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 5, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A film review in Weekend on Friday about ''Marigold'' referred incorrectly to the rating. It is PG-13; it is not unrated.
A film review in Weekend on Aug. 17 about ''Marigold'' misstated its rating status. It has a PG-13 rating; it is not unrated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joan Chen in ''Sunflower,'' directed by Zhang Yang. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORKER FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (89%); FILM GENRES (89%); FILM (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MEN (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); DANCE (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); WRITERS (72%); COMEDY FILMS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MUMBAI, INDIA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); GOA, INDIA (68%); RAJASTHAN, INDIA (53%) INDIA (87%); UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



298 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Quake Death Toll Climbs in Peru; Areas Lack Water and Power

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Reporting was contributed by Ana Cecilia Gonzales Vigil from Pisco, Peru; Jenny Carolina Gonzales from Bogota, Colombia; Laura Puertas from Lima; and Daniel Cancel from Caracas, Venezuela.

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
A day after a powerful earthquake devastated cities along Peru's southern coast, government officials put the death toll at 437, with at least 17,000 people displaced and with wide areas without power, telephone service or road access on Thursday night.
 At least 300 of the dead were in Pisco, a port city about 125 miles south of Lima, and more were thought to be buried in rubble, local officials said. Dozens were inside the San Clemente cathedral, which was full for Mass when the quake caused it to cave in around 6:40 p.m. on Wednesday. Witnesses said the spire bell clanged horribly in the seconds before it tumbled down. 
 ''I am a real man, but last night I was scared,'' said Luis Chavez, 31, who was in the main square when the cathedral collapsed. ''There was so much dust that all I could think of was the World Trade Center pictures.''
 The mayor of Pisco, Juan Mendoza Uribe, said the quake had destroyed as much as 70 percent of the city. ''So much effort and our city is destroyed,'' he said, crying audibly, in comments broadcast on the radio station RPP in Lima.
 Power and water service were still out in Pisco on Thursday night, and many residents said they would sleep outside again, afraid that aftershocks could topple more structures. In the city center, the wreckage of dozens of old adobe homes lay in the streets. Rescuers, working well into the night, were often forced to walk far out of their way as they carried bodies, sometimes in shouldered coffins, toward a makeshift morgue at the hospital.
 In nearby Chincha Alta, a wall collapsed at the Tambo de Mora prison, and about 680 prisoners escaped, according to Manuel Aguilar, vice president of the National Institute of Penitentiaries. About 29 were recaptured and sent to another jail, he said. An Associated Press Television News cameraman in Chincha Alta reported seeing at least 30 bodies laid out on a hospital balcony.
 Judith Luna Victoria, a spokeswoman for the National Civil Defense Institute, said that the number of confirmed dead was 437 and the number of injured was more than 800, but the toll was expected to rise. 
 Officials with the United States Geological Survey on Thursday raised their initial estimate of the strength of the earthquake to a magnitude of 8.0, making it one of the biggest quakes to strike Peru in decades. Throughout the day Thursday, dozens of aftershocks kept rolling through the area, with at least 14 rated at a magnitude of 5 or larger.
 Across the region, neighboring governments rushed to offer aid to Peru, including Chile, which on Monday had recalled its ambassador from Peru over a continuing maritime territorial dispute. President Bush offered his condolences, and his spokesman, Gordon D. Johndroe, said a team from the Agency for International Development was in Lima.
 President Alan Garcia declared a state of emergency and flew in to visit Pisco and Ica, another hard-hit city to the south. ''There has been a good international response even without Peru asking for it, and they've been very generous,'' he told The Associated Press in Pisco.
 The president of the Peruvian Congress, Luis Gonzales Posada, called on large companies to donate water, food, blankets and even coffins to aid in the rescue and reconstruction efforts.
 It was one of the worst earthquake tolls recorded in Peru, which is no stranger to the disasters given the major fault line running off its coast. In 2001, a magnitude 8.4 quake struck at Arequipa, killing 138 people. In 1868, a magnitude 9 quake struck and was followed by a tsunami that killed several thousand more people, creating the worst disaster in Peru's history. 
 In Lima, the capital, witnesses described the main earthquake as having come in two main waves. Some houses collapsed in the middle of the city, and the quake collapsed many power lines and broke windows across the capital. One person was reported killed on Wednesday.
 Fernando Calderon, an American in Lima, said he was in his hotel when the quake struck. In a telephone interview with CNN, he described seeing buildings swaying from right to left as the ground shook.
 ''Finally we started hearing glass breaking and things falling out of the building, and that's when everybody started screaming, praying, children crying,'' he said. ''It was just awful.''
 In Ica, dozens of buildings collapsed in the earthquake and aftershocks. The local morgue had received at least 57 bodies as of Thursday, The Associated Press reported.
 The quake cracked roads and brought down rocks and soil. The main road through the area, the Pan-American Highway, had only one usable lane over a stretch of more than 20 miles, and traffic was backed up for miles past. 
 To visit the worst-hit towns, officials, including President Garcia, had to use helicopters. 
 In Pisco, many of the survivors were in shock, wandering the streets and crowding around the overwhelmed hospital, desperate for reports about loved ones or distraught after receiving the worst kind of news.
 ''There are corpses all over the place,'' Luis Garcia, a reporter for the Lima newspaper El Comercio, said in a telephone interview from Pisco. ''The bodies are thrown everywhere and every family is mourning over the loss of a loved one, friend, neighbor or family member.''
 He added: ''The people need help to remove the rubble. They need tents, water and food, because there is nothing; everything is blocked off, destroyed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A boy offered comfort at a makeshift hospital opened in Pisco. The quake was one of the worst ever recorded in Peru. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUIS CHOY/EL COMERCIO, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 A coffin being carried yesterday through debris in Pisco, a port city where at least 300 victims of Wednesday's earthquake died. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIANA BAZO/REUTERS) MAP: The map shows the location of the epicenter of the earthquake off the coast of Peru. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (93%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); PRISONS (86%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EYEWITNESSES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



299 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Allies Not Likely to Push Mugabe to Change

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Southern Africa's political leaders gathered Thursday in Lusaka, Zambia, to discuss Zimbabwe's political and economic collapse, but it appeared unlikely that they would press its president, Robert G. Mugabe, to change any of the policies that critics said had brought his nation to ruin.
 To the contrary, Mr. Mugabe arrived at the meeting to a fusillade of cheers and applause from attendees that, news agencies reported, overwhelmed the polite welcomes for other heads of state. 
 The meeting, of the Southern African Development Community, a 14-nation bloc devoted to economic and political cooperation, is the group's second this year to be dominated by Zimbabwe's long-running crisis. The same leaders gathered in private with Mr. Mugabe in March, and, diplomats said at the time, indicated that they had warned him to restore political and economic freedoms or face isolation.
 Mr. Mugabe was unrepentant then, and at Thursday's session the comments of leaders of neighboring states about Zimbabwe's descent were notably bland. 
 Zambia's president, Levy Mwanawasa, who compared Zimbabwe to ''a sinking Titanic'' at the meeting in March, urged Mr. Mugabe in an opening speech to protect what he called Zimbabwe's hard-won independence from colonial rule 27 years ago. 
 The Mozambican executive secretary of the regional group, Tomaz A. Salomao, suggested that economic sanctions imposed by Western nations were partly responsible for Zimbabwe's disintegration. 
 The sanctions largely freeze the foreign assets of top Zimbabwean officials, bar them from traveling to Western states and prohibit military sales. Otherwise, Europe and the United States remain among Zimbabwe's top trading partners.
 Western governments were hopeful early this year that Zimbabwe's neighbors would press Mr. Mugabe to end a crisis that has sent refugees flooding across their borders. Experts say the situation poses an increasing threat to regional security.
 Most of that hope has now diminished, said John Prendergast, a former Clinton administration specialist on Africa. He said African leaders faced ''a structural obstacle'' to addressing Zimbabwe's problems: their deference to Mr. Mugabe's status as a hero of the region's liberation struggles in decades past. 
 ''No matter what happens inside that country as the meltdown continues to intensify, that unshakeable deference has not been altered,'' he said. ''We've seen time and time again that they simply have not been able to rise to the occasion.''
 In March, the regional leaders asked President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa to mediate a solution to Zimbabwe's political crisis that would pave the way toward genuinely free presidential elections next March. Mr. Mbeki is to report privately to the leaders on his mission at the Lusaka meeting, but there is little evidence of progress.
 Zimbabwean officials said before the meeting that they saw no reason to cooperate with their political opponents in the Movement for Democratic Change, a small and deeply divided group of democracy advocates.
 Critics charge that Zimbabwe's seven-year decline is a result of increasingly repressive policies imposed by Mr. Mugabe's government that have driven away foreign investment and stoked hyperinflation, now exceeding 10,000 percent a year, local economists say.
 But on Thursday, Mr. Mugabe's justice minister, Patrick Chinamasa, told journalists at the Lusaka meeting that Zimbabwe's problems had been overblown by the world's news media and that the political changes demanded by pro-democracy groups were unnecessary.
 ''You have a situation where issues are being portrayed, exaggerated, to portray Zimbabwe as a country that has become ungovernable,'' news agencies quoted him as saying. ''Nothing is further from the truth.''
 But Zimbabwe's plight has worsened since June, when the government ordered all businesses to roll back prices, effectively declaring inflation illegal. Since then, factories have curtailed production, workers have been laid off and store shelves have emptied of basic goods.
 In Bulawayo, Zimbabwe's second-largest city, a security guard and a child were reported by news agencies to have been killed Thursday after a line of shoppers awaiting a rare delivery of sugar mobbed a storefront, toppling a brick wall on top of them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Robert G. Mugabe of Zimbabwe and his wife, Grace, in Lusaka, Zambia, for a meeting of African leaders yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER JOE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE-GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); REFUGEES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY (57%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%) ZIMBABWE (95%); AFRICA (95%); ZAMBIA (94%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (93%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



300 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
SUSANNE M. WINTERLING
 'I'll Be Your Mirror, but I'll Dissolve'
 Daniel Reich Gallery 
 537A West 23rd Street, Manhattan
 Through Sept. 7
 When you come from the summer sunshine into the gallery's blacked-out space for Susanne M. Winterling's solo show, you find yourself in almost total darkness. Then, as your eyes adjust to the low light, two films materialize on the walls, projected at about the size of paintings. 
 In one, a woman with short hair and wearing a crisp white shirt plays a violin. She holds the instrument with practiced confidence but leans close to it, as if improvising a dissonant tune. She gives the impression of physically extracting the music from the instrument through close probing. 
 In the second film two women in dark suits stand facing each other, passing a beige raincoat back and forth. One places it over the shoulders of the other, who tries it on, buttons, then unbuttons it, takes it off and places its around the shoulder of her partner. The exchange is formal and tender, like a polite gesture that serves as a pretext for intimacy, an embrace that doesn't want to acknowledge itself as an embrace. 
 A series of photographs extend the sense of reticent eroticism and vulnerability, of lives perceived in half-light. One of the photographs refers to the lesbian photographer and political writer Annemarie Schwarzenbach (1908-1941), who broke with her conservative Swiss family and lived a peripatetic exile's life, part of it spent in the United States where she documented racial violence. 
 Another picture is a still from Rainer Werner Fassbinder's ''Effi Briest,'' a film about a woman shut out of her home and marriage when an affair from her past is revealed. A third is a shot of the cover of ''Early Sorrow: Ten Stories of Youth,'' a collection of pieces, edited by the children's book writer Charlotte Zolotow, on the experience of loss by young people. Carson McCullers and Elizabeth Bowen were among the contributors.
 This exhibition, the auspicious first full-scale New York solo show for this Berlin artist (she had a one-night film screening at Gavin Brown's Enterprise earlier in the year), concludes with the short film that gives the show its title. It consists entirely of images of iridescent, rainbow-colored soap bubbles drifting intermittently over a black ground. The implications are both celebratory and valedictory, which makes sense for work that looks back on suppressed histories but also brings those histories, and the reality of their suppression, forward in a stylish and unsensationalist art of the present. Ms. Winterling will screen another film, ''The Flambards,'' at the gallery tonight at 7. HOLLAND COTTER
 1950S-1960S KINETIC ABSTRACTION
 Andrea Rosen
 525 West 24th Street, Chelsea
 Through Aug. 24
 Like many things invented in the 1950s and '60s, the art in ''Kinetic Abstraction,'' organized by the German collector Erika Hoffmann, probably seemed like the wave of the future. The show is accompanied by an elegiac curatorial statement, in the form of a gallery release.
 ''We learned to question any so-called truth,'' Ms. Hoffmann writes about that period, ''or conventional custom, to doubt any political agreement or art theory, and to trust nothing but chance.'' The works in the show resist what she refers to as the ''authoritarian statements of American Minimalists'' and move closer to ''European skepticism.''
 Can you detect this in Francois Morellet's rapidly undulating thread, strung between the floor and the ceiling, or Heinz Mack's and Julio Le Parc's panels with shifting layers of glass, plastic and metal? In Gerhard von Graevenitz's slowly revolving disc with aluminum pieces that shift like tiny wind vanes, or Jean Tinguely's plywood ''painting'' with rectangles that move like clock hands, or Gianni Colombo's construction with polystyrene blocks that pulse like lungs?
 To some extent, yes. The works here are literally restless, shifting, rejecting stasis. Several look like game boards turned vertically and attached to the wall. Ms. Hoffmann describes them as ''serial experiments'' set up to ''make the work of art happen without the artist's further interfering.''
 The spinning ''Rotoreliefs'' of Marcel Duchamp -- the archetypal European trickster-artist -- are obvious touchstones. But where Duchamp often miraculously avoided becoming dated, there's something poignantly anachronistic about these works.
 Perhaps the best evidence of this is a sign at the entrance that invites you to turn on the works and, because of their age and fragility, requests that you turn them off after viewing them. MARTHA SCHWENDENER
 BIRD FLEW EXHIBITION
 A Gathering of the Tribes
 285 East Third Street, 
 East Village
 Through Sept. 15
 A Gathering of the Tribes is a sophisticated and assertively multicultural, multimedia, grass-roots cultural organization in the East Village. Founded by the poet Steve Cannon and now well into its second decade, it survives on a combination of personal energy, karmic chance and the economic kindness of strangers, including several arts foundations. And much of that personal energy emanates from the East Third Street walk-up apartment that serves as an office, social club and art gallery.
 The small show now installed there is part of Tribes' annual Charlie Parker Festival. It is also the second of two shows of work culled by the curator Robert Storr from submissions received through an open call to artists. There's some impressive stuff. The painter Caomin Xie turns an Agnes Martin-like field of horizontal bars into a seascape. Cheryl Molnar assembles futuristic landscapes from thin strips of color. And Stephen Pauley, in the show's most striking and unorthodox work, carves paintinglike reliefs from panels of dark granite.
 Certain pieces relate more specifically to the Lower East Side. This is true of an eschatological comic drawing by Christopher Weeks, John Ranard's photograph of a syringe-and-poppy tattoo and Abby Goodman's tiny, bright-hued paintings on plexiglass of local friends and neighbors. Many such people will doubtless be on hand for the Charlie Parker birthday block party on East Third Street on Aug. 29. This summer's Bird blast, coordinated by Tribes' manager, the writer Chavisa Woods, gives an accurate sense of the organization's exuberant scope, with poetry readings, film screenings, jazz performances, and displays of Tribes-published books and magazines. The art may stay in the gallery upstairs, but almost everything else is on, and of, the street. HOLLAND COTTER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A video by the Berlin artist Susanne M. Winterling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL REICH GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WRITERS (86%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); FILM (76%); MUSIC (75%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (75%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); CONSERVATISM (65%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (64%); RACE & RACISM (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



301 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Israel to Get $30 Billion In Military Aid From U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Israel and the United States signed a deal on Thursday to give Israel $30 billion in military aid over the next decade in what officials called a long-term investment in peace.
 The officials insisted that the deal was not dependent on a simultaneous American plan for $20 billion in sales of sophisticated arms to its Arab allies, including Egypt and Saudi Arabia. But Israeli officials acknowledged that the aid to Israel would make it easier for the Bush administration to win Congressional approval of the arms sales to Arab countries.
 Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel has not objected to those arms sales, saying that he understands the United States' need to support moderate Sunni Arab states that, like Israel, are opposed to Shiite Iran's reach for regional supremacy and nuclear weapons. 
 The American under secretary of state for political affairs, R. Nicholas Burns, speaking at the signing ceremony here, said, ''There is no question that, from an American point of view, the Middle East is a more dangerous region now even than it was 10 or 20 years ago and that Israel is facing a growing threat'' from Iran and its ally, Syria.
 The threat, he said, is ''immediate and it's also long term,'' and he cited Iran's support for organizations that the United States classified as terrorist and that were opposed to peace and stability in the region, like Hamas and Islamic Jihad in the Palestinian territories and Hezbollah in southern Lebanon.
 The new aid to Israel will average $3 billion a year on a sliding scale, an increase of about 25 percent from current figures, to begin in October 2008. That year, American economic aid to Israel, which has a vibrant, growing economy, is scheduled to end. Uniquely, officials said, the new deal allows Israel to spend 26.3 percent of the aid on arms from Israel's domestic military industry; the rest of the money must be spent on American equipment.
 The Israelis have some specific reservations about what equipment might be sold to Saudi Arabia, however, despite American promises that Israel will keep its ''qualitative edge'' regionally in military technology.
 Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the House majority leader, said in an interview on Thursday that ''Congress will be supportive of the aid to Israel, but with respect to Saudi Arabia I think we will look at that more closely.'' He said there were ''specific concerns on guided missile technology that could be used defensively against Israel and that would be problematic.'' 
 Some Israeli politicians have also discussed trying to limit Saudi deployment of new weapons systems to the east of the country, closer to Iran, keeping them away from Israel.
 Mr. Burns and the Israeli team, led by the governor of the Bank of Israel, Stanley Fischer, who holds both American and Israeli citizenship, would not comment on the specifics of the arms deal.
 Mr. Fischer said that Israel was grateful for the help, since it had one of the highest defense burdens ''in what used to be called the free world,'' amounting to 10 percent of gross domestic product. 
 Mr. Burns said, ''This $30 billion in assistance to Israel is to be an investment in peace, in long-term peace -- peace cannot be made without strength.''
 In Gaza, Hamas, the Islamic group that has taken control there, briefly detained the Palestinian attorney general, Ahmed Mughami, who is allied with Fatah, after he returned to the Gaza Strip to try to prevent Hamas from altering the area's judicial system. Fatah has ordered the police and other civil servants, including judges, not to work for Hamas in Gaza, and Hamas then said it would set up Islamic courts. Hamas forced Mr. Mughami out of his office at gunpoint in Gaza City. He refused to resign and was released.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); HAMAS (79%); HEZBOLLAH (79%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); RELIGION (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); TERRORISM (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ISRAEL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (82%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (54%); HAMAS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

PERSON: EHUD OLMERT (59%); STENY HOYER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



302 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Events Prod U.S. to Make New Push for Mideast Deal

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Samuel Johnson once remarked that ''when a man knows he is to be hanged in a fortnight, it concentrates his mind wonderfully.''
 In that sense, recent events here -- the victory of the radical Islamic movement Hamas in Gaza and Fatah's rapid collapse there -- have focused the diplomatic mind and shaken Israel, the United States and the secular Sunni Arab states, like Egypt and Saudi Arabia, already nervous about a rising Iran.
 In trying to gauge the seriousness of all the new talk about peace negotiations, and about where they might be headed, it seems important to keep the hangman in mind. 
 For Martin S. Indyk, a Clinton administration official and ambassador to Israel, there is a new ''alliance of fear'' that makes it possible to progress. ''Only when there is a sense of urgency can things get done,'' he said. ''Otherwise the need for political survival trumps progress toward peace.''
 After seven years of violence and terrorism, stagnation and unilateralism, the United States has finally decided to re-engage, pushing Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinians to talk about peace. Both Mr. Olmert and Mr. Abbas may be weak, but both are also desperate for accomplishment. And the landscape is very different than it was seven years ago.
 After trying to undermine Hamas and seeing it conquer Gaza, the United States and Israel act as if they now have Hamas exactly where they want it, as if the fruits of defeat are sweeter than those of victory. Embracing a non-Hamas government in the West Bank, one run by an independent economist, Salam Fayyad, appointed by Mr. Abbas of Fatah, they are trying to make the West Bank a model.
 The fact that Hamas won a legislative majority, that Mr. Fayyad has no mandate, that there is no functioning legislature and no democratic oversight are all the complications of necessity, Israeli officials and American diplomats argue. 
 For what is at stake, all now seem to understand, is the future of the two-state solution, of a negotiated territorial compromise between Israelis and Palestinians over the same slice of earth.
 But hanging over that issue, of course, is the fallout from Iraq and the larger regional challenge of a Shiite Iran pursuing nuclear weapons and sponsoring those most opposed to a permanent deal -- Hamas and Islamic Jihad in the territories, Hezbollah in southern Lebanon.
 The Bush administration finally seems to understand, one American official said, that there is no sustainable status quo. Even more, Condoleezza Rice, the secretary of state, seems now to understand, as Shlomo Ben-Ami, a former Israeli foreign minister put it, ''If there was an Archimedean point to the Middle East problem, it was to be found in the Palestinian issue, not the 'war on terror,' Iraq or the need for Arab democracy.''
 But unlike President Bill Clinton, whose team did not take or have the time to get Arab support for Yasir Arafat at Camp David, President Bush appears to have Saudi Arabia, which is worried about Iran, on board, providing an Arab umbrella over Mr. Abbas and Mr. Fayyad.
 But to do what, exactly? Mr. Indyk, at the Brookings Institution and thinking about the lessons of Camp David, warns against hubris. ''If Rice goes for final status she'll drive it into the ground,'' he said. Israel does not have enough confidence in Mr. Abbas or a divided Palestinian polity to pull out of large sections of the West Bank, fearing Gaza-like chaos that could rain rockets on Ben Gurion airport.
 What is needed, Mr. Indyk said, is a parallel and simultaneous process of Palestinian state building and negotiation over a peace deal, so that the rest of Mr. Bush's term is not wasted. Here, if possible, the former British prime minister, Tony Blair, and Ms. Rice can work in tandem, with Mr. Blair helping the Palestinians finally build the institutions of a state while Ms. Rice pushes both sides to agree on what peace would look like.
 Ms. Rice speaks carefully about negotiations on the principles of a final settlement -- not the final settlement itself, which will be carried out over many years. Ideally, some of those principles can be put into a text -- not a peace treaty -- that can be endorsed by an international meeting for which Ms. Rice will be host, probably in November.
 An example, officials say, could be an agreement that Israel and the Palestinians accept 1967 boundaries with modifications and land swaps that give the new Palestinian state Gaza and some percentage of the current area of the occupied West Bank -- maybe 97 percent, as Mr. Clinton proposed, or perhaps 100 percent, as the Arab League wants, and as the Israeli president, Shimon Peres, recently suggested.
 The parties could negotiate the details of the swaps and how to carry them out later, but the principle would be established and embraced by the West and the Arab League, making it harder for Hamas to reject. But the harder issues have always been the emotional and religious ones: Jerusalem, the Temple Mount, known to Muslims as Haram al-Sharif, and refugees.
 Among the Israelis and Palestinians, parties and factions are already fighting about how to approach the new American initiative. It comes late in Mr. Bush's term. But what may make it work is its essential modesty, given Ms. Rice's apparent understanding that a full settlement is out of reach.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Palestinian man in the Gaza Strip, where the Hamas takeover has prompted new diplomacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN FRAYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); AL FATAH (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); HEZBOLLAH (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); WAR ON TERROR (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (85%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (77%); SAM JOHNSON (74%); EHUD OLMERT (57%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EGYPT (92%); IRAQ (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



303 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: India Discussing Uranium Deal With Australia

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: CANBERRA, Australia, Aug. 16 

 BODY:
Australia and India have agreed to negotiate a uranium trade pact to help meet the growing demand for power in India, Prime Minister John Howard of Australia announced on Thursday. 
 The agreement signals a major shift in the Australian government's policy on global nuclear proliferation.
 All of Australia's current uranium customers have ratified the international Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and have agreed to ensure that radioactive material is not put to any military use or passed on to a third country.
 Mr. Howard's cabinet agreed in principle on Tuesday to sell the nuclear fuel to India despite its refusal to sign the nonproliferation treaty. The government contends that nuclear power is important to efforts to curb global warming as the Indian and Chinese economies' hunger for energy grow.
 In April 2006, Australia signed an agreement with China to sell uranium for use in China's nuclear power plants. 
 ''Our officials will now enter into negotiations regarding the conditions,'' Mr. Howard said. ''We want to be satisfied that the uranium will only be used for peaceful purposes.''
 The Indian External Affairs Ministry spokesman, Navtej Sarna, confirmed that Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had agreed to start negotiations.
 Earlier Thursday, Mr. Howard told Parliament that India would have to agree to international inspections of its nuclear power plants and to complete the details of its nuclear partnership pact with the United States.
 The United States and India have sealed a technical pact that details how nuclear cooperation between those countries, the world's two largest democracies, will work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); INSPECTIONS (72%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (68%)

PERSON: JOHN HOWARD (90%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANBERRA, AUSTRALIA (59%) AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); INDIA (97%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



304 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; EAST HAMPTON JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Crier Spreads Word on Yesterday's Town

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
EAST HAMPTON, N.Y.
 Hear ye! Hear ye!
 The news rang out from Hugh King, this community's official town crier, who often dresses up in a vest and a top hat, rings his bell and dispenses -- not news, exactly, but a little local history.
 This week the headline was: Town Crier Barely Recognizes Ye Olde Village. 
 East Hampton was once a quaint little place where Mr. King romped as a child, caroused as a young man and bought his first piece of land at Augie's Barber Shop, where the hair cutter was selling off chunks of a big plot he had bought for peanuts north of the village. Today, it looks more like Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, filled with upscale boutiques, designer shops and jewelry stores, and high-end food outlets.
 ''Let's see now, that Coach store used to be a bank,'' said Mr. King, 65, while walking along Main Street on Wednesday afternoon. ''That Bonne Nuit store, that used to be the 5 & 10. The Tiffany & Company, that used to be the Whitman Gallery, where they would fix watches or jewelry or knickknacks.''
 Mr. King looked at White's Pharmacy, wedged between Cashmere Hampton and the Cynthia Rowley designer store.
 ''White's,'' he said. ''Them and Sam's Bar and Restaurant around the corner, those are the only stores left from when I was a kid.''
 He stopped into the Ralph Lauren children's clothing store, in a building that once served as a post office, and brushed up against a $425 leather fringe cowboy jacket made for a child. Several doors down is another Ralph Lauren store, formerly a beauty parlor, he said. And the Summerfields store -- that was Ben Barnes's stationery store.
 Nowadays, Mr. King said, local residents cannot afford to shop at most of the stores here. ''Most of us have to do our shopping at the Wal-Mart in Bridgehampton,'' he explained. At the main corner in town, Newtown Lane and Main Street, the snazzy new Elie Tahari shop is in a building that was once a Bohack's supermarket, with the local telephone company upstairs.
 On the opposite corner across the lane was once Rowe's Pharmacy, now a Cole Haan shoe and accessory store. From there, directly across Main Street, is the grand-looking building that houses London Jewelers.
 ''That used to be the Masonic Hall, with four bowling lanes and a bar in the basement,'' noted Mr. King, who somehow looks (and sounds) like a town crier even when not in costume. 
 Mr. King, a retired grammar school teacher, oversees the three windmills in town and helps run the Home Sweet Home museum. He tipped his baseball cap and smiled at the summer folk, with their even tans and designer clothes and arms laden with colorful, glossy shopping bags.
 ''Keep shopping, support the local economy,'' he said brightly, then muttered to himself, ''even though it's not really local.''
 Many of the stores had their doors open, letting air-conditioned blasts out onto the steamy sidewalk.
 ''They say it helps attract customers,'' Mr. King said. He pointed out some other old buildings and, without missing a beat, added, ''and there's Nathan Lane.''
 The town crier was right. There was the award-winning actor walking alone on Main Street past the movie theater, looking casual in jeans, loafers and a polo shirt and checking his cellphone screen. He turned down a narrow road, and declined to chat.
 ''I'm on my way to something,'' he said, clasping his hands and furrowing his brow apologetically, almost as if performing in a harried scene from ''The Producers,'' not in the middle of this narrow, leafy, empty East Hampton lane.
 ''I can't stop,'' Mr. Lane said, ''to have an impromptu interview in the middle of the road.''
 Back to Mr. King, who loves impromptu interviews. He stopped in front of a store named Calypso Home, which sells designer pillows, linens and other furnishings. It was once a firehouse, Mr. King said. The store windows were once garage bays. Now they display hand-embroidered pillows selling for $435 apiece.
 He passed Cittanuova, a chic cafe (''This used to be a bar where you could get 15-cent pitchers of beer and Chinese food'') and stopped in front of Steph's Stuff.
 ''This was once Augie's Barber Shop,'' he said. ''Augie had bought a huge plot in Springs, and he sold me a half-acre for $2,000 in 1965.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 30, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The East Hampton Journal on Aug. 17 about Hugh King, the Long Island community's official town crier, misidentified the store in nearby Bridgehampton where Mr. King said local residents, unable to afford the high prices in East Hampton, did their shopping. It is a Kmart, not a Wal-Mart.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hugh King, town crier of East Hampton, N.Y., sans official vest and top hat, in front of Elie Tahari, formerly a supermarket site. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COREY KILGANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (77%); JEWELRY (77%); CHILDREN (76%); RETAILERS (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); JEWELRY STORES (75%); HISTORY (72%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (70%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); BARBER SHOPS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); DRINKING PLACES (64%); BOWLING CENTERS (60%); BOWLING (60%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (83%); CYNTHIA ROWLEY (55%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (83%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (83%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (83%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (55%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2007



305 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Padilla Verdict: The Rule of Law Won

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''Padilla Is Guilty on All Charges in Terror Trial'' (front page, Aug. 17), you call Jose Padilla's conviction on all counts ''a significant victory for the Bush administration.'' 
 The administration first held Mr. Padilla without formally charging him with any crimes. It finally enumerated the charges against him in order to avoid a constitutional showdown with the Supreme Court -- charges that included none of the original allegations against him, because it could not substantiate them.
 Finally, Mr. Padilla was convicted on Thursday by an ordinary civilian court, completely undermining the administration's argument that stripping terrorism suspects of their constitutional rights was the only adequate way to bring them to justice.
 This is a defeat, not a victory, for the Bush administration; the victory goes to the Constitution and the rule of law.
 Jeff Slutzky
 New York, Aug. 17, 2007
 To the Editor:
 You say Jose Padilla's conviction was ''a significant victory for the Bush administration.'' Could it possibly be a victory for the American people, too? Do all Americans, regardless of political affiliation, regardless of who sits in the White House, benefit when terrorist attacks are prevented? 
 Patrick Hunter
 Laurinburg, N.C., Aug. 17, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Suppose I am arrested tomorrow and held as an ''enemy combatant.'' I don't have access to a lawyer and no one but my captors hears my side. How does anyone know that it is not a trumped-up charge to get me out of the way? You might say ''that can't happen here,'' but you would be wrong. 
 I am sorry, but a United States citizen has rights guaranteed by the Constitution. No one, not even the president, can take those rights away. Jeff Hope
 Winterville, N.C., Aug. 17, 2007
 To the Editor:
 ''The Padilla Conviction'' (editorial, Aug. 17) accurately describes the tortuous history of the Bush administration's treatment of Jose Padilla. His criminal trial also belies the administration's contention that alleged ''terrorists'' cannot be tried in federal courts but require special military tribunals. 
 His trial as well shows that the government could have prosecuted Mr. Padilla five years ago without torturing him, the co-equal legislative and judicial branches and the rule of law. 
 Carl Tobias
 Richmond, Va., Aug. 17, 2007
 The writer is a professor of law at the University of Richmond.
 To the Editor:
 While acknowledging that Jose Padilla is a terrorist who belongs in prison, you write that his conviction should not be seen as ''vindication'' for the Bush administration (editorial, Aug. 17). 
 Question: When has The Times ever found vindication for the president's policies in any undeniably good news -- whether the remarkable military turnaround in Anbar Province, the record tax revenues that have accompanied lower tax rates, a robust economy or six years without a terrorist attack on American soil? Howard F. Jaeckel
 New York, Aug. 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); WRITERS (78%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



306 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEW POWER IN AFRICA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Entrepreneurs in Africa Flourish Where Others Faltered

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH and LYDIA POLGREEN. 
Howard W. French reported from Lilongwe and from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and Lydia Polgreen from Lusaka, Zambia, and Dakar, Senegal.

DATELINE: LILONGWE, Malawi 

 BODY:
When Yang Jie left home at 18, he was doing what people from China's hardscrabble Fujian Province have done for generations: emigrating in search of a better living overseas.
 What set him apart was his destination. Instead of the traditional adopted homelands like the United States and Europe, where Fujian people have settled by the hundreds of thousands, he chose this small, landlocked country in southern Africa. 
 ''Before I left China,'' said Mr. Yang, now 25, ''I thought Africa was all one big desert.'' So he figured that ice cream would be in high demand, and with money pooled from relatives and friends, he created his own factory at the edge of Lilongwe, Malawi's capital. The climate is in fact subtropical, but that has not stopped his ice cream company from becoming the country's biggest. 
 Stories like this have become legion across Africa in the past five years or so, as hundreds of thousands of Chinese have discovered the continent, setting off to do business in a part of the world that had been terra incognita. The Xinhua News Agency recently estimated that at least 750,000 Chinese were working or living for extended periods on the continent, a reflection of deepening economic ties between China and Africa that reached $55 billion in trade in 2006, compared with less than $10 million a generation earlier. 
 Even when Mr. Yang arrived here in 2001, he said, he could go weeks without encountering another traveler from his homeland. But as surely as his investments in the country have prospered, he said, an increasingly large community of Chinese migrants has taken root, and now runs everything from small factories to health care clinics and trading companies.
 During the previous wave of Chinese interest in Africa in the 1960s and '70s, an era of radical socialism and proclaimed third-world solidarity, European and American companies held sway over economies in most of the continent. Here and there, though, the Chinese made their presence felt, often in drably dressed, state-run work brigades that built stadiums, railroads and highways, crushing rocks and doing other labor by hand.
 Today, in many of the countries where the new Chinese emigrants have settled, like Chad, Chinese-owned pharmacies, massage parlors and restaurants serving a variety of regional Chinese cuisines can be found; the Western presence, once dominant, has steadily dwindled, and essentially consists nowadays of relief experts working international agencies or oil workers, living behind high walls in heavily guarded enclaves.
 At first, this new Chinese exodus was driven largely by word of mouth, as pioneers like Mr. Yang relayed news back home of abundant opportunities in a part of the world where many economies lie undeveloped or in ruins, and where even in the richer countries many things taken for granted in the developed world await builders and investors.
 Conditions like these often deter Western investors, but for many budding Chinese entrepreneurs, Africa's emerging economies are inviting precisely because they seem small and accessible. Competition is often weak or nonexistent, and for African customers, the low price of many Chinese goods and services make them more affordable than their Western counterparts.
 Chinese Expansion
 You Xianwen sold his pipe-laying business in Chengdu, in southwest China, this year to move to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia's capital, to join a startup company with a Chinese partner he had met only online. ''Back where I come from we are pretty independent people,'' Mr. You, 55, said. ''My brothers and sisters all supported my decision to come here. In fact, they say that if things really work out for me, they would like to move to Africa, too.''
 Mr. You said he had considered other African countries before settling on Ethiopia, including Zambia. ''Luckily I didn't decide to go there,'' he said, explaining that he had been frightened by the recent anti-Chinese protests in that country. 
 His new business, ABC Bioenergy, builds devices that generate combustible gas from ordinary refuse, providing what Mr. You said would be an affordable alternative source of energy in a country where electricity supplies are erratic and prices high.
 Mr. You's partner here, Mei Haijun, first came to Ethiopia a decade ago to work at a Chinese-built textile factory and has since married an Ethiopian woman, with whom he has a child. ''When I first came here you could go two months without seeing another Chinese person,'' he said. ''But it is a different era now. There's a flight to China every day.''
 The pickup in air traffic between China and countries like Ethiopia now has Chinese companies scrambling to add new routes, as the Chinese government and big Chinese companies increase their stake in Africa.
 Much of that activity reflects an intense appetite for African oil and mineral resources needed to fuel China's manufacturing sector, but big Chinese companies have quickly become formidable competitors in other sectors as well, particularly for big-ticket public works contracts. China is building major new railroad lines in Nigeria and Angola, large dams in Sudan, airports in several countries and new roads, it seems, almost everywhere.
 One of the largest road builders, China Road and Bridge Construction, has picked up where the solidarity brigades of an earlier generation left off. The company, which is owned by the Chinese government, has 29 projects in Africa, many financed by the World Bank or other lenders, and it maintains offices in 22 African countries.
 On a recent Ethiopian Airlines flight from Addis Ababa to Beijing brimming with Chinese contractors, workers from Road and Bridge and other companies swapped notes on the grab bag of countries they work in, and debated about the difficulties of learning Portuguese and French in places like Mozambique and Ivory Coast.
 Africans view the influx of Chinese with a mix of anticipation and dread. Business leaders in Chad, a central African nation with deepening oil ties to China, are bracing for what they suspect will be an army of Chinese workers and investors. 
 ''We expect a large influx of at least 40,000 Chinese in the coming years,'' said Renaud Dinguemnaial, director of Chad's Chamber of Commerce. ''This massive arrival could be a plus for the economy, but we are also worried. When they arrive, will they bring their own workers, stay in their own houses, send all their money home?''
 In Zambia, where anti-Chinese sentiment has been building for several years, merchants at the central market in Lusaka, the capital, said that if Chinese people wanted to come to Africa, they should come as investors, building factories, not as petty traders who compete for already scarce customers for bottom-dollar items like flip-flops and T-shirts. 
 ''The Chinese claim to come here as investors, but they are trading just like us,'' said Dorothy Mainga, who sells knockoff Puma sneakers and Harley Davidson T-shirts in the Kamwala Market in Lusaka. ''They are selling the same things we are selling at cheap prices. We pay duty and tax, but they use their connections to avoid paying tax.'' 
 Although Chinese oil workers have been kidnapped in Nigeria and in Ethiopia, where nine were killed by an armed separatist movement in May, the growing Chinese presence around the continent has produced few serious incidents. 
 Misunderstandings are common, however, and resentments inevitably arise. Africans in many countries complain that Chinese workers occupy jobs that locals are either qualified for or could be easily trained to do. ''We are happy to have the Chinese here,'' said Dennis Phiri, 21, a Malawian university student who is studying to become an engineer. ''The problem with the Chinese companies is that they reserve all the good jobs for their own people. Africans are only hired in menial roles.''
 Another frequent criticism is that the Chinese are clannish, sticking among themselves day and night.
 In Addis Ababa, in what is a typical arrangement for most large companies, the 200 Chinese workers for the Road and Bridge Corporation live in a communal compound, eating food prepared by cooks brought from China and receiving basic health care from a Chinese doctor.
 ''After a day off you wonder what you're doing here, so we like to keep working,'' said Cheng Qian, the country manager for the road-building company in Ethiopia. He added that his family had never visited him during several years of work here.
 African Ambivalence
 Sometimes, the Chinese approach has created serious frictions with African workers. At a leading hotel here in Lilongwe, breakfast guests stared as an agitated Chinese traveling salesman, sweating profusely, screamed at his staff minutes before his pitch on nutritional supplements was set to begin.
 ''You say it is not your fault, but the way you are doing things is just stupid, stupid,'' the man sputtered before a clutch of African assistants, who looked humiliated. ''You people are unbelievable.''
 When the salesman finally left the room, members of the restaurant staff gathered near the door and vented their disgust. ''We don't need people like that to come here and colonize us again,'' one said. 
 After nearly seven years in Malawi, Yang Jie, the ice cream maker, seems to have learned better. Greeting his workers at the ice cream factory, he begins the day by asking, ''How did you sleep last night?''
 One quickly replied, ''Very well,'' sounding a bit formal.
 ''Don't tell me a lie,'' Mr. Yang answered with a sly, friendly smile. ''It's O.K. to tell me your worries.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Chinese man in his mother's bar in Lilongwe, Malawi. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENEDICTE KURZEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 Above, a Malawian and a Chinese man working in a Chinese restaurant in Lilongwe, Malawi. Top left, a Chinese merchant in a market in Lilongwe. Below left, Malawian workers gathering bricks for a new Chinese food factory in Lingonwe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENEDICTE KURZEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A6) MAP: Chinese businesses thrive in Lilongwe, Malawi's capital. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ICE CREAM (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%); MASSAGE SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (94%); FUJIAN, CHINA (90%) MALAWI (97%); AFRICA (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



307 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: One Bridge Doesn't Fit All

BYLINE: By DAVID P. BILLINGTON. 
David P. Billington is a structural engineering professor at Princeton and the co-author, with David P. Billington Jr., of ''Power, Speed and Form: Engineers and the Making of the 20th Century.''

 BODY:
Princeton, N.J.
 AS many have pointed out, the deadly bridge failure in Minneapolis was symptomatic of a system of bridges that will continue to corrode, crack and crumble if not maintained. But maintenance is not the only problem. We also need to design and build better bridges. 
 The I-35W bridge was of a type called a ''truss deck'' bridge; of the 760 bridges around the country having the same design, the Federal Highway Administration found 264, or 35 percent, to be structurally deficient in 2006. Of the bridges having a similar ''truss thru'' design, 58 percent were labeled deficient. By comparison, only 13.4 percent of the nearly 600,000 bridges of all types were found to be structurally deficient. 
 While we don't know yet exactly what caused it, the Minneapolis collapse is hauntingly similar to the collapse in 1983 of another interstate highway bridge over the Mianus River in Connecticut. That disaster led to inspections of similar bridges, which found dangerous cracks from deferred maintenance. 
 What the Mianus and Minneapolis bridges had in common was not just neglect. Both were the products of a design mentality in which engineers simply used a standard form, and often the same detailed features. Public bridges are all too often designed by anonymous teams, and the results can be seen on our highways. 
 The goal of good bridge design is to integrate efficiency, economy and elegance in a single design. Few bridges built over the last century have achieved this. Most are efficient but strictly functional; a few that aspire to elegance have done so at the expense of efficiency and economy, like the new San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, which is estimated to cost more than four times its original budget. 
 Having given seminars to many state bridge engineers, I am aware of the political pressures they face to control costs. But there are often opportunities to improve design even in the case of very ordinary bridges.
 For example, a few years ago, in a discussion with bridge engineers from a Midwestern state, I suggested an alternative to a conventional overpass they had built, only to be told it would have cost too much. Challenged, I redesigned the overpass myself, and sent the plan to a steel fabricator the state worked with. The fabricator did a cost analysis and, to everyone's surprise, found that my version would have cost slightly less than the standard design. The revision was also, in my view, better looking.
 American bridge engineering largely overlooks that efficiency, economy and elegance can be mutually reinforcing ideals. This is largely because engineers are not taught outstanding examples that express these ideals. 
 Elsewhere, however, there is a great history of such integrated education. In the early- and mid-20th century, two professors at the Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich -- first Wilhelm Ritter and then Pierre Lardy -- used that broader approach and turned out such eminent designers as Robert Maillart and Christian Menn, experts in reinforced concrete, and Othmar Ammann, who worked in structural steel. 
 Maillart never built in the United States, but Ammann designed several immense spans in the New York City area, including the George Washington, Bayonne, Bronx-Whitestone and Verrazano-Narrows Bridges. Professor Menn is generally considered today's greatest practicing designer, and his Leonard P. Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge in Boston has become a symbol of that city in the four years since its opening. 
 The goal of these three designers was always to create long-lasting bridges disciplined by the conservation of structural materials and public money yet with great visual appeal. This is why photographs and models of their bridges are the only works of structural engineering regularly exhibited in art museums. 
 Good design need not be limited to giant projects. An example was the design competition in 1989 for the United States Naval Academy Bridge in Annapolis, Md., organized with the help of Professor Menn. It was patterned after the Swiss practice of having public juries of experts and citizens evaluate designs, and the result was an efficient and elegant bridge for essentially the same amount of money that a standard design would have cost.
 In the end, it is to the credit of state bridge engineers that despite their tight budgets, there have been relatively few fatal collapses caused by structural deficiencies. However, more money, better maintenance and new regulations will not be enough to change things if new bridges are no better than the ones they replace. The public and our elected officials must learn to see bridges -- of all sizes and in all locations -- as more than just utilitarian objects. Bridges should be cared for in the way we treat works to which we have an emotional attachment as well as a physical need. 
 A 2000 report by the Federal Highway Administration indicated that an average of about 2,500 new bridges are completed each year; each could be an opportunity for better design. The best will be elegant and safe while being economical to build. 
 The key is to require that every bridge have one engineer who makes the conceptual design, understands construction and has a strong aesthetic motivation and personal attachment to the work. This will require not only a new ethos in professional practice, but also a new focus in the way engineers are educated, one modeled on the approach of those Swiss professors, Wilhelm Ritter and Pierre Lardy. 
 The first opportunity to move toward this new outlook will be in choosing the replacement design for the Minneapolis bridge. I would urge the State of Minnesota to organize a jury of public officials, engineers and community leaders to recommend a design after a holding a competition along the lines of the one in Annapolis. 
 We have a choice: we can replace the standard-form truss with another bland and anonymous work, or we can come up with an efficient and elegant form that helps engineers educate the public in the possibilities of turning our nation's bridges into safe, economical and beautiful landmarks worth maintaining. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAXWELL LOREN HOLYOKE-HIRSCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); STRUCTURAL METAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



308 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; ; Pg. 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA2-6
 White House Is Planning Gradual Cut in Iraq Force
 The White House plans to use a report next month on progress in Iraq to outline a plan for gradual troop reductions beginning next year that would fall far short of the drawdown demanded by Congressional opponents of the war, according to officials. A1 
 Chinese Businesses in Africa 
 A Chinese man who runs the biggest ice cream company in Malawi is emblematic of hundreds of thousands of Chinese who do business in Africa, a part of the world that until five years or so ago had been terra incognita for their countrymen. A1 Aid Moving Slowly in Peru
 Two days after an earthquake in Peru killed more than 500 people, the government was coming in for early criticism that it was not moving fast enough to aid the victims and restore order. A3 Russian Planes to Patrol Seas
 President Vladimir V. Putin said that the Russian Air Force would resume patrols over the world's oceans, resuming the practice after a 15-year hiatus. A3 Texas Oil Trader Admits Guilt
 A Houston oil trader pleaded guilty to federal wire fraud charges in connection with illegal gains and kickbacks involving the United Nations oil-for-food program in Iraq during Saddam Hussein's government. A2 
 Sentences in Apartheid Case
 Five security officials who confessed to the attempted murder of a black activist in the dying days of South Africa's apartheid regime received suspended sentences. A6 
 NATIONALA7-10; 14 
 Search for Utah Miners Is Suspended Indefinitely
 A sense of doleful finality settled over Huntington, Utah, as underground search efforts for six coal miners were suspended indefinitely. Crumbling tunnel walls inside the Crandall Canyon Mine killed two rescue workers and a federal mine inspector on Thursday night. A1 Retirements Worry G.O.P.
 A rash of retirements among House Republicans is adding to the party's electoral challenges. Four House Republicans have announced recently that they will not seek re-election. A7 A Deluge of Visa Applications
 Immigration authorities have received about 300,000 applications for high-skilled employment visas since July 1, a deluge unleashed after the federal government first said it would not accept any applications for those visas during July and then reversed course. A7 
 Earmarks and Green Energy
 Companies in a variety of energy-related businesses are lining up at the federal trough as the government shovels out billions of new dollars to reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil and combat global warming. Critics of this new genre of federal spending call it ''green pork.'' A8 
 Edwards to Alter Portfolio
 John Edwards's presidential campaign said he would divest his portfolio in a hedge fund of investments in subprime mortgage companies that have foreclosed on victims of Hurricane Katrina. But the campaign said Mr. Edwards would keep his $16 million investment in the fund. A9 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-5
 Reporter Is Subpoenaed In Spitzer Investigation
 The New York State Ethics Commission issued a subpoena to a reporter at The Times Union of Albany involved in the ethics scandal surrounding Gov. Eliot Spitzer. B1 
 Quick Jaunts Catch On
 Quick getaways used to supplement traditional vacations for the American worker when business was slow. But a growing number are now stacking up a series of shorter siestas. B1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-9 
 Fed Encourages Lenders
 The Federal Reserve, saying for the first time that the recent disorder in the financial markets has raised the risk of a economic downturn, has taken steps to encourage banks to borrow directly from the Fed, particularly to support home mortgage lending. A1 
 Hypersensitive Stocks
 Stock prices, usually reactive to the news cycle, have been hypersensitive to anything that might indicate whether more trouble lies ahead for the economy.C1 
 Bibs Pulled From Shelves
 Toys ''R'' Us stopped selling more than 160,000 baby bibs after tests confirmed reports that at least some of these Chinese-made bibs are contaminated with lead. C1 
 Cell Phone Chip Dispute
 Nokia, has asked trade officials to intervene in a bitter dispute with Qualcomm over royalties and license fees on patents of chips used in mobile phones. C2 
 Business DigestC2 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); MURDER (74%); DISASTER RELIEF (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ICE CREAM (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (71%); ENERGY MARKETS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (69%); EARTHQUAKES (69%); MINE WORKERS (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (68%); HURRICANES (68%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (68%); TROPICAL STORMS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); SENTENCING (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (64%); COAL MINING (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (60%); OCEANS (52%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (78%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); EARTH (71%) IRAQ (94%); MALAWI (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



309 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Central Bank's Sudden Action Eases A Logjam in Corporate Borrowing

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve Board's move yesterday to stabilize the credit markets helped to ease the pressure on a mundane but crucial part of the financial markets: short-term lending to corporations.
 Borrowing of money short-term -- called issuing commercial paper -- seized up this week as investors became nervous at the prospect that many of those notes were backed by mortgages that no longer have ready buyers. 
 ''The commercial paper market is the eye of the storm,'' said Ed Devlin, a portfolio manager at Pimco, the big fixed-income investment firm. ''The reason the Fed is concerned is that there is a real collateral squeeze and issues around funding.'' 
 Until recently, the $2.2 trillion commercial paper market was considered one of the safest places on Wall Street. But over the last few days, many investors have been navigating it like the airport highway in Baghdad. 
 Yesterday, some of the concerns began to ease. Commercial paper traders called the last week the worst in their career since the 1998 financial crisis that brought down the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management. 
 The market is a little-noticed but vital part of the world's financial infrastructure. And all week, it seemed that one financial bomb after another was exploding.
 The rating agency, Standard & Poor's, warned that it might downgrade a handful of lenders and hedge fund issuers, and Moody's sharply cut the ratings of nearly 700 subprime mortgage bonds. Countrywide Financial, the mortgage lender, could not sell its notes, leading it to obtain emergency bank financing.
 In Canada, two groups of big banks preliminarily agreed to provide $120 billion, in United States dollars, in financing to companies there, amid a global pullback. Even the notes of seemingly healthy companies were priced at higher rates -- and had trouble selling.
 Commercial paper, essentially a promise to repay a loan within a few weeks to nine months, has served as a major pipeline for corporate financing. Mortgage lenders use the short-term notes to fund their loans before packaging and offloading them from their books. 
 Hedge funds created special investment vehicles, which purchased the short-term notes to invest in higher-yielding loans -- often mortgage bonds -- and then used the difference to bolster their returns. And many corporations used commercial paper to finance big share-buyback programs. 
 Investors in money market funds have found commercial paper a convenient place to park their cash. While some big money market funds may improve their returns if they can invest at the current rates, others may be worse off. But most ordinary investors, bankers and analysts say, should not see much of an impact. 
 ''Investment managers and portfolio managers who deal with hundreds of millions of dollars are very concerned, but the average investor should not be worried,'' said Peter Crane, the publisher of Money Fund Intelligence, an industry newsletter. He said there was almost ''zero chance'' that a money market fund would decline significantly in value.
 While the turbulence of the commercial paper market peaked on Thursday, it was still not fully stabilized yesterday.
 Investors have grown increasingly scared that the high-grade notes are backed by bundles of subprime mortgages. So much so, they do not trust the credit ratings of many short-term notes -- including ones that the major agencies deemed high grade. 
 About $1.2 trillion, or roughly 53 percent of commercial paper, is backed by pools of assets like home mortgages, credit card receivables and car loans. Over all, some analysts suggested, about half is backed by residential mortgages.
 But several said that most investors have no idea of their actual subprime exposure in that mix. 
 Transparency has been poor. And because of high-octane financial engineering, analysts said, the underlying pool of assets may have been rated as high quality but could actually be backed by riskier stuff. 
 The widespread uncertainty has frozen parts of the commercial paper market and led to days of turbulent trading. As it reverberates, many players in the financial systems are feeling its effects.
 To be sure, many short-term notes are trading -- although at record high rates. But as issuers have to come up with cash to roll over, or refinance their notes, they have found themselves unable to do so. That is because the underlying pool of assets is worth considerably less. 
 On some notes many issuers have invoked so-called extendable options, which lengthen the payback period from, say, 90 days to six months in an effort to wait for extra time for investors to come back. Others have turned to so-called backstop financing -- essentially an insurance policy sold by the big banks and brokerage houses that calls for them to provide funding if the underlying assets cannot be sold. Countrywide, for example, tapped its $11.5 billion credit line yesterday after investors were reluctant to buy its commercial paper. The move allowed Countrywide to stave off selling the underlying mortgage assets at deep discounts.
 But the total amount of rescue financing has placed tens of billions of dollars at risk for many of the biggest banks. Most charge nominal fees for the guarantee of liquidity, analysts said, and some banks did not properly reserve for the risk since the prospect of default seemed remote. 
 Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, for example, have guaranteed more than $90 billion of liquidity, or about 5 or 6 percent of their total assets, according to a recent Banc of America Securities report. State Street, a custody bank, guaranteed about $29 billion, or 23 percent of its total assets.
 In all three cases, their actual subprime mortgage exposure is proportionally small. But other analysts suggest that many big European banks may carry a great deal more risk on their balance sheet. 
 That has ignited fear that the subprime contagion has spread to the global banking system -- and, some suggest, caused the Federal Reserve Board to take action yesterday. 
 ''The Fed is concerned because of the banks' exposure. The banks are on the hook for potentially tens of billions of dollars,'' said Christian Stracke, an analyst at CreditSights, a fixed-income research firm. ''That could tighten credit conditions significantly if all that paper is tied up in things that none of the banks want to hold.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: KEY INTEREST RATES: ''FED FUNDS TARGET RATE'' 5.25% Remained unchanged yesterday. This rate, what banks charge each other for short-term loans, is managed by the Fed as its key tool in influencing the economy
''PRIME RATE'' 8.25% Benchmark interest rate set by banks for consumer and business loans
 ''PRIMARY ''DISCOUNT RATE 5.75%'' Lowered by one half percentage point yesterday. This is the rate the Fed charges banks to borrow directly from its discount window.(Source: Federal Reserve)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PAPER (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (87%); US DOLLAR (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (56%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (73%); IRAQ (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



310 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE ECONOMY; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Waking Up to the Real Estate Nightmare

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN

 BODY:
It didn't take a crystal ball to see that the collapse of the housing bubble was coming and that many home borrowers who took out risky loans were about to be squeezed. The warning signs, which have been visible for at least two years, were clear and repeated.
 But this was the month that both Wall Street and Washington finally woke up to the nightmare. And strangely, once the reaction set in, panicked investors worried about losses in their portfolios found themselves on the same side as Democrats expressing concerns about struggling homeowners, both clamoring for the government to do something -- anything -- to contain the crisis. Meanwhile, the White House and Republican candidates counseled patience and letting the market take its toll. 
 Indeed, the uncertainty surrounding the housing and market turmoil brought out the differences between Republicans and Democrats in stark relief.
 Rudolph W. Giuliani, in an interview with Larry Kudlow on CNBC, said it was up to ''the market to straighten out, and it will.'' As president, he added, he would ''not succumb to the temptation of trying to manipulate it too much and come in with a bailout.''
 As for investors, Mr. Giuliani said, ''you have to take responsibility for the decisions you make. If you invest in something risky, you get a possibly greater return. Everyone knew that sub-prime was risky.'' As a result, he added, when the loans go bad, ''you have to live with the consequences.''
 By contrast, Hillary Rodham Clinton presented a multipoint plan ''to preserve the American dream of home ownership'' that she said would ''curb unfair lending practices and hold brokers and lenders accountable, give families the support they need to avoid foreclosure and increase the supply of affordable housing.''
 At the heart of Mrs. Clinton's proposal, an idea shared by several other Democrats in Congress, is a $1 billion fund to assist homeowners facing foreclosure, along with an expansion of the role of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two government-sponsored corporations that back home mortgages, so that they could take on somewhat riskier loans themselves. 
 Foreclosures are already on the rise. And they are bound to get a lot worse.
 But the difficulty facing any politician who wants to help average Americans at risk of losing their homes is that doing so inevitably serves to bail out the Wall Street investors who are carrying the loans as well. That only encourages them to take more bad risks in the future, secure in the knowledge that the government is likely to step in to protect them from their follies.
 Moreover, it is doubtful that most of the recent home buyers -- particularly those in the middle class who took out risky, adjustable rate loans with little or no down payment so they could buy a more expensive house -- were simply innocent bystanders themselves, unwitting victims of predatory lenders.
 This is a problem recognized not just by free market conservatives, but by activist liberals as well.
 ''I don't see a way you could reasonably help the people you want to help,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, ''without also helping people you don't want to help.''
 In a blog posting, Mr. Baker, who has been presciently warning of the dangers from the housing bubble for several years, elaborated on his argument: ''The bailouts being discussed would quite likely benefit holders of mortgages that might otherwise by nearly worthless. Some of the holders of these mortgages include banks and also hedge funds,'' he wrote. ''It is said that hedge fund managers are highly skilled investors. Since they can get the Senate to bail them out when they get in trouble, I suppose that is true.''
 Even without a direct bailout, Congress may well step into the middle of the mess by authorizing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which already hold about $1.5 trillion in mortgage securities, to acquire a larger portfolio of loans, including some of those most at risk of default. Beyond that, Fannie is seeking to raise its approved lending limit for home mortgages, currently set at $417,000, so that it can ''better help the market during this period of distress.''
 But many economists worry that Fannie and Freddie, which have an implicit government guarantee against failure that allows them to borrow money at lower rates, should not be going after additional loans. Moreover, their expansion beyond their basic mandate to help low- and moderate-income homebuyers encourages private lenders to take on riskier loans themselves as the only way to survive in the mortgage business.
 ''Fannie and Freddie both have serious accounting problems already,'' said Edward Glaser, a professor of economics at Harvard. ''Do we really want them taking on additional risk right now for taxpayers that the private sector doesn't want?''
 Professor Glaser, like many other economists, also worries that an after-the-fact government bailout, whether done directly or through Fannie and Freddie, will only delay the necessary and inevitable adjustment in the housing market.
 ''Most of this can be worked out through normal banking channels,'' Mr. Glaser said. ''The power of government should be used to help people in real hardship.''
 But once ''politicians get involved it has every prospect of mushrooming out of control,'' he added, ''taking care of middle-class voters simply because they are facing foreclosure rather than focusing on people who are really poor and those who stand to lose real money because they put in a significant down payment.''
 The ideal policy, argued Paul Krugman in an op-ed article for The Times, is for the government to ''say no to bailouts,'' but ''help borrowers work things out.''
 But it is hard to see how Washington would make that work in practice without, as he put it, ''letting the parties who got us into this mess off the hook.''
 Maybe that explains why so many on Wall Street are suddenly clamoring for the government, including the Federal Reserve, to help out. The free market is fine as long as things are going good. It's not so popular when you're losing your shirt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); FAIR LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009



311 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1118 words

PERSON: Carolyn Goodman 

HEADLINE: Carolyn Goodman, Rights Champion, Dies at 91

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Carolyn Goodman, a Manhattan clinical psychologist who became a nationally prominent civil rights advocate after her son Andrew and two other civil rights workers were murdered by the Ku Klux Klan in Mississippi in 1964, died yesterday at her home on the Upper West Side. She was 91.
 Dr. Goodman, who had suffered a series of strokes and seizures in recent weeks, died of natural causes, her son David said. At her death, she was assistant clinical professor emeritus of psychiatry at Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University in the Bronx.
 Politically active until she was 90, Dr. Goodman came to wide public attention again two years ago. Traveling to Philadelphia, Miss., she testified at the murder trial of Edgar Ray Killen, a former Klan leader recently indicted in the case. On June 21, 2005, the 41st anniversary of the killings, a jury acquitted Mr. Killen of murder but found him guilty of manslaughter in the deaths of Andrew Goodman, James Chaney and Michael Schwerner.
 In the summer of 1964, Mr. Goodman and Mr. Schwerner, two white Northerners, and Mr. Chaney, a black Mississippian, converged in Neshoba County, Miss. They were there to take part in Freedom Summer, a campaign to register black Mississippians to vote. On June 21, they disappeared. 
 From the moment the disappearance was made public, Dr. Goodman was in the spotlight, facing batteries of television cameras outside her apartment on West 86th Street as she pleaded for Mississippians, and all Americans, to help in the search. On Aug. 4, the bodies of the three men were found in an earthen dam near Philadelphia. All had been shot.
 The fate of the three young men -- Mr. Goodman was 20, Mr. Chaney 21, Mr. Schwerner 24 -- was widely seen as helping inspire the historic civil rights march from Selma to Montgomery, Ala., in 1965, and the passage of the Voting Rights Act the same year.
 A slender, elegant woman with sleek short hair, Dr. Goodman remained for decades a highly visible political presence. As she repeatedly made plain, she was not seeking revenge. (To the end of her life, she publicly opposed capital punishment.) She was, rather, agitating to see justice done -- not only for her son and his colleagues, but on a wide range of issues.
 In 1966, Dr. Goodman and her husband, Robert Goodman, started the Andrew Goodman Foundation, which supports a variety of social causes. Over the years, she took a prominent part in antiwar demonstrations, lectured often to student and religious groups and marched in civil rights rallies of all kinds.
 In a telephone interview yesterday, her son David recounted a characteristic incident, which happened in 1999, during the public protest over the death of Amadou Diallo, the Guinean immigrant shot and killed by New York police officers. A colleague came into Mr. Goodman's office to tell him that his mother had just been seen on television, being taken off to jail.
 ''I said, 'Well, that happens from time to time,' '' Mr. Goodman recalled.
 Carolyn Elizabeth Drucker was born in Woodmere, N.Y., on Oct. 6, 1915. Her father, Edward, a lawyer, was concerned with social causes: he hired one of the first black lawyers to work in a white New York firm, David Goodman said yesterday. Carolyn earned a bachelor's degree in home economics from Cornell University in 1936, a master's in clinical psychology from the City University of New York in 1953 and a doctorate in education from Columbia University Teachers College in 1968.
 Her political involvement began early: at Cornell, she helped organize local farmers' cooperatives. In the late 1930s, she served on a committee that aided Spanish Republicans exiled during the Spanish Civil War.
 After her marriage to Robert W. Goodman, a civil engineer, in the late 1930s, their sprawling, book-lined apartment became a haven for progressive artists and intellectuals. In the 1950s, the Goodmans were deeply involved in the fight against McCarthyism; Alger Hiss was a guest on occasion. They were also avid supporters of the arts, organizing benefits for the New York Philharmonic and other organizations. (One of David Goodman's childhood memories, he said yesterday, was of hearing a visiting Leonard Bernstein play the family piano.)
 In this heady environment, the Goodmans' three sons, Jonathan, Andrew and David, grew up. In 1964, Andrew, then a student at Queens College, told his parents he planned to go to Mississippi.
 ''It wasn't easy for us,'' Dr. Goodman told The New York Times in 2005. ''But we couldn't talk out of both sides of our mouths. So I had to let him go.''
 As Andrew was about to leave, Dr. Goodman slipped iodine and bandages into his duffel bag, in case he was roughed up in the South. Neither one of them, she said afterward, could conceive of anything much beyond that.
 In 1967, a federal jury in Meridian, Miss., convicted seven Klansmen of conspiracy in the deaths of the three civil rights workers. None served more than six years. In January 2005, Mr. Killen, who in 1967 was released in one of the federal trials as a result of a hung jury, was arrested and charged with murder by the State of Mississippi.
 At his trial, Dr. Goodman read a postcard her son wrote on June 21, 1964, the last day of his life.
 ''Dear Mom and Dad,'' it read, ''I have arrived safely in Meridian, Miss. This is a wonderful town, and the weather is fine. I wish you were here. The people in this city are wonderful, and our reception was very good. All my love, Andy.''
 Robert Goodman died of a stroke in 1969 at 54; Dr. Goodman's second husband, Joseph Eisner, whom she married in 1972, died in 1992. She is survived by her sons David, of Upper Saddle River, N.J., and Jonathan, of Tel Aviv; nine grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
 Mr. Chaney's mother, Fannie Lee Chaney, died in May. Mr. Killen is currently serving a 60-year sentence.
 As a psychologist, Dr. Goodman specialized in creating early intervention programs for families at risk of psychiatric problems. She developed and ran the PACE Family Treatment Center, a program for emotionally disturbed mothers of young children, at the Bronx Psychiatric Center. Her articles were published widely in prominent professional journals.
 But it was as Andrew Goodman's indomitable mother that Dr. Goodman remained best known. She was interviewed repeatedly about her son's case, often speaking from the apartment where she had raised him, where pictures of Andrew were visible everywhere.
 ''I still feel that I would let Andy go to Mississippi again,'' Dr. Goodman told The Times in 1965, a year after his death. ''Even after this terrible thing happened to Andy, I couldn't make a turnabout of everything I believe in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carolyn Goodman at her son's funeral, flanked by Fannie Lee Chaney and Anne Schwerner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS, 1964) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obits)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); MURDER (90%); DEATHS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); MANSLAUGHTER (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); VERDICTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PSYCHIATRY (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); INDICTMENTS (69%); JURY TRIALS (69%); ACQUITTAL (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); SHOOTINGS (58%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



312 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Jittery Markets Deflate Trades Centered on Yen

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD; Carter Dougherty contributed reporting from Frankfurt.

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Aug. 17 

 BODY:
The recent volatility in global stock markets has raised the prospect that a distinguishing feature of the financial world for years now, an investing strategy known as the yen carry trade, is losing some of its appeal. 
 The tactic emerged several years ago as the Bank of Japan kept interest rates low while other central banks, beginning in 2004, started to raise rates, creating an incentive to borrow cheaply in Japan and invest the money in countries where returns were higher.
 The tactic helped weaken the yen against the dollar and the euro, creating nervousness that a chaotic unwinding of carry trades might become a source of financial instability -- as it is today. 
 The unwinding of carry trades sent the yen soaring Friday to its highest level against the dollar in 14 months and sent the Nikkei 225 index to its worst single-day loss since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States. 
 The rise of the yen comes as investors have been selling stocks amid concerns that the mortgage loan mess in the United States will hurt global economic growth. 
 ''Japan gets hit by a double whammy,'' said Patrick Mohr, a strategist at Citigroup in Tokyo. 
 ''With higher risk aversion,'' Mr. Mohr said, ''you see unwinding of the carry trade, so on top of a lower appetite for equities, that's compounded by concerns for export earnings.''
 Analysts have been observing a reversal of carry trades for several weeks now, explaining in part why the dollar has fallen about 10 percent against the yen since June. But the trend appeared to have picked up sharply on Friday. 
 Few of the world's finance officials will shed any tears at the tapering off of the carry trade, a highly speculative venture that the Group of 7 has tried to discourage, at least rhetorically.
 But the market volatility created by the unwinding of carry trades, which has rippled through all kinds of assets, is something most people could do without. And it feeds on itself: volatility in exchange rates makes cheap-yen borrowing increasingly risky, necessitating more unwinding.
 It is unclear why investors were prompted to accelerate their repurchases of yen so suddenly Friday, but analysts said increasing volatility in emerging markets was raising the risks inherent in the carry trade.
 It has ''become a race to reduce risk,'' Satoru Asatani, a fund manager at Shinko Investment Trust in Tokyo, told Bloomberg News. ''People don't care about the valuations now, they're just selling whatever they can.''
 Ed Merner, manager of the Atlantis Japan Growth Fund in Tokyo, said, ''If you're investing overseas and the yen starts to go against you, or what you're investing in goes against you, then you start to sell that and maybe the yen gets stronger -- that panics people into covering.'' .
 A rising yen makes Japanese exports more expensive for consumers abroad, particularly in the United States, where the widening panic over tightening credit and housing loans is raising concerns that consumer spending may suffer.
 While much of the carry trade is conducted by hedge funds, analysts say Japanese retail investors are also a big contributor. Overseas stocks and bonds are increasingly popular among investors who have little confidence in their own stock market and economy. 
 And while Japanese retail investors do not necessarily borrow the yen to buy these products, analysts say the effect is much the same. But now, with carry trades being swiftly unwound, the currencies that carry traders were buying have been falling as fast as the yen has been rising. 
 On Friday, the Australian and New Zealand currencies suffered their biggest weekly declines against the United States dollar in at least 18 years. The Australian central bank bought its currency for the first time in six years Friday to stem the steepest one-day drop since it was allowed to trade freely in 1983.
 However unfavorable global market volatility may have made the carry trade in recent weeks, analysts said, the practice is unlikely to fully disappear as long as Japanese interest rates are so much lower than rates elsewhere. 
 ''People can put their carry trade back on two weeks from now,'' said Christophe Lee, the chairman of the Alternative Investment Management Association in Hong Kong. ''Yen interest rates remain very low'' so there's still room to maneuver, he said. 
 Japanese bank accounts typically pay less than half a percentage point of interest per year. That means that even parking funds in United States dollars is profitable to a Japanese investor, provided that dollar declines do not erase those gains.
 Returns can be even higher if those yen are invested in places like Australia and New Zealand, where rates are higher and a commodities boom has been pushing up inflation and causing currencies to appreciate.
 While conventional economic theory holds that lowering interest rates and thereby reducing borrowing costs stimulates economic growth, some in Japan say the reverse may be true. In a nation where the predominantly elderly population keeps most of its money in savings, higher interest rates could increase their disposable income and stimulate consumer spending. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Tokyo Stock Exchange yesterday as the Nikkei 225 index had its worst single-day loss since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. (Photograph by KOJI SASAHARA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); TRENDS (75%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (53%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



313 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Being Right Is Bittersweet For a Critic Of Lenders

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
This should have been Edward M. Gramlich's moment.
 For more than a decade, even before he was named a governor of the Federal Reserve Board in 1997, Mr. Gramlich was warning of dangers in the housing market, a stance that has made him a sought-after expert in the current crisis.
 As chairman of the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, he urged legislators to better protect consumers against predatory lenders, and toughen regulation of mortgage lenders and banks. Nonetheless, his efforts met resistance within the Fed and on Capitol Hill, and even he admits he could have pushed earlier for reform.
 Still, in June, he published a timely book, ''Subprime Mortgages: America's Latest Boom and Bust,'' that has linked his name once more to the home loan situation, which he says he never could have expected would become so dire. 
 By rights, Mr. Gramlich would be entitled to be at the center of the debate. But instead, he is fighting for his life.
 After falling ill during a trip to Africa in March, he was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia, an advanced cancer of the white blood cells, for which treatment is arduous and survival rates low.
 It is his second bout with the disease. In 2002, while at the Federal Reserve, he was diagnosed with acute lymphocytic leukemia, a more treatable form of blood cancer. After chemotherapy, he went into remission.
 Mr. Gramlich, 68, has been offered a highly experimental treatment, overseen by his doctors at Johns Hopkins Medical Center in Baltimore, to help fight his new cancer, for which he already has undergone one round of procedures. But he has decided to forgo it, at least for now.
 Though doctors cannot say with certainty how long he will live without the therapy, his wife estimates it may be no more than a few months.
 ''It's a hard decision,'' Mr. Gramlich, known as Ned, said in a telephone interview this week from his home in Washington (unable to go out in crowds, he now sees few visitors except family). ''This whole thing, I have to say, is tremendously unfair, that it hit. But it did hit, and what do you do now? You make the best of it.''
 As to be expected from the author of a book on cost-benefit analysis, as well as the former chairman of the federal loan board for the airline industry, Mr. Gramlich is weighing the pros and cons of his own situation with an economist's detachment.
 In this case, he balanced the quality of life, or lack thereof, that the treatment might afford. ''It's a great maybe,'' Mr. Gramlich said.
 With remission unlikely, the experimental treatment might extend his life, ''but maybe not, and it could shorten it,'' he said. Moreover, Mr. Gramlich, who is already weak from his disease, was told he would probably become even sicker as the treatment progressed.
 ''I just didn't want to do it,'' Mr. Gramlich said. He added that he might consider other treatment options, but he and his wife also plan to investigate hospice care soon.
 Though his decision was made pragmatically, it has still shaken his friends. ''For him to talk about going out is a lot easier than it is for all of us,'' said Roger W. Ferguson, a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve who served with Mr. Gramlich, and is now chairman of Swiss Re America Holding, the United States branch of the global insurer.
 But Mr. Gramlich's conclusion was ''in character'' with his analytical side, Mr. Ferguson added.
 Mr. Gramlich's decisions recall those of the author and political columnist Art Buchwald. In February 2006, he chose to discontinue receiving dialysis for kidney disease.
 Although told he might be dead within weeks, Mr. Buchwald lived on for nearly a year, writing another book, and playing host to famous friends at his hospice bedside. He died in January, and marked his passing with a video obituary for The New York Times's Web site that began with this declaration: ''I'm Art Buchwald, and I just died!''
 Mr. Gramlich acknowledged the similarities: ''He essentially made the decision that treatment was awful, he couldn't abide it, and so, to hell with it, let's see what happens.''
 While not approaching his fate with quite so much humor, Mr. Gramlich is displaying at least as much candor.
 This month, he and his wife, Ruth, shared his decision not to seek further experimental treatment in a newsletter they had posted on a Web site called CarePages, which allows patients to update family and friends about their treatment, and receive messages of support.
 More than 350 people have logged in to read Mr. Gramlich's CarePage, which Mrs. Gramlich said had spared the family the time and emotional trauma of notifying people themselves.
 ''You're overwhelmed by caring people who want to know what's going on,'' Mrs. Gramlich said.
 Readers have included family friends, former government colleagues and associates at the University of Michigan, where Mr. Gramlich served as dean of its public policy school and, more recently, as acting provost in 2005 and 2006.
 Along with health updates, the entries have shared the family's emotional frustration.
 ''We were brought up by the older generation to be much less forthcoming about these things, both the facts and the emotions,'' Mrs. Gramlich said.
 With close friends, ''Ned and I would be absolutely honest that this is incurable; it also would be dishonest not to say we're sad and devastated.''
 But his illness has not yet prevented Mr. Gramlich from having his say about the housing market, an interest of his that predates his years at the Fed.
 While there, he spoke frequently about the boom in home prices that took place earlier this decade, warning that loans by predatory lenders to low-income buyers were not receiving enough scrutiny.
 Their practices, like charging excessive fees and refinancing for the sole purpose of collecting more fees, ''jeopardize the twin American dreams of owning a home and building wealth,'' he said in a 2002 speech. 
 Mr. Gramlich said that upon leaving the Fed two years ago, he had planned to write about the housing boom. But his tenure at Michigan intervened, and by the time he completed the manuscript last December, the subprime market was on its way to collapsing, fulfilling his worst policy fears.
 Last month, despite his obvious poor health, he spoke at length about potential solutions during a televised panel sponsored by the Urban Institute; he is a senior fellow there, and the institute published his book. (The group's president, Robert Reischauer, said of Mr. Gramlich: ''Ned is to the policy community what an Olympic gold medal decathlete is to the world of sports.'')
 He voiced a repeated theme, that more regulation of subprime lenders is needed from the Fed and other agencies. Lately, that is a point the Federal Reserve has made, ''but they seem to be alone,'' Mr. Gramlich said.
 Rather than watch troubled borrowers flounder, he would like to see community groups help them avoid foreclosure, and even purchase homes that could be sold to low-income borrowers. ''With very small amounts of money, they could do a world of good,'' he said.
 He noted the incongruity of the timing of his illness, coming just as an issue so important to him had become front-of-mind for many policy makers. ''It's good news and bad news,'' Mr. Gramlich said.
 On the downside, his illness is preventing him from making many more appearances to promote his book, since he is susceptible to infection.
 But the good news ''is that the last thing I ever did was really important,'' Mr. Gramlich said. ''I really feel I got it right at the end.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward M. Gramlich in 2005 at the Federal Reserve in Washington. (Photograph by JAMIE ROSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEUKEMIA (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CANCER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); FAIR LENDING (76%); PREDATORY LENDING (76%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); WRITERS (74%); BLOOD DISORDERS (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (67%); LYMPHOMA (66%); AIRLINES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%) MARYLAND, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



314 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: No Applause, Please

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
CALL it the curse of the business press.
 Chief executives who are heralded as ''best manager'' or ''best performing'' or who receive some other kind of elaborate praise from business writers almost always see their company's stock performance suffer afterwards, according to a working paper by two assistant professors of economics at the University of California, Ulrike Malmendier of Berkeley and Geoffrey Alan Tate of U.C.L.A.
 ''The stock market returns of award-winning C.E.O.s' companies lagged those of their unheralded peers by about 4 percent per year over the three years following an award,'' Larry Yu writes in Sloan ManagementReview in summarizing the research. 
 What causes the decline? The academics speculate that recognition in the press could lead to the executive's becoming distracted. ''Winning an award doubles the odds of the C.E.O. penning a book, and winning as many as five awards makes a C.E.O. four times as likely to sit on five or more outside boards.''
 Or it could be that as Ms. Malmendier notes, journalists are simply very good at picking people who are going to underperform. 
 Perhaps not surprisingly the ''C.E.O.s themselves did just fine.''
 ''Award winners tended to receive higher compensation, mostly equity based, than other C.E.O.s.'' 
 AFTER E-MAILOdds are your e-mail account at work is overflowing.
 Fast Company presents some case studies of how companies are dealing with the problem.
 Capital One, where employees average 40 to 50 e-mail messages a day, is trying to make the existing system better by teaching employees to write better messages.
 ''It turns out that stronger subject lines help recipients better understand why they received an e-mail'' and it also makes it easier to find the message later, if they decide to store it. 
 How might it work? Instead of writing ''here's what you asked for,'' as the subject line, it would be more effective to say ''here's the 2008 staffing model.''
 Using bullet points and underlining or ''bolding'' major points also makes the text more effective.
 Union Bank of California is spending more time figuring out who, exactly, needs to see each specific e-mail message. 
 For example, ''if power goes out at the Fresno branch, for instance, only those staffers in nearby branches -- and specific managers -- will get the memo.''
 FACE TIME: GOOD At first glance, it looks as if wires must be crossed somewhere: Although 75 percent of managers say that telecommuters are just as productive as their in-office colleagues, only 39 percent say that virtual workers are likely to advance as fast as those employees who go into the office every day. 
 A psychologist, Judith Olson, believes she can explain the seeming disparity, Psychology Today reports.
 She believes that employers have better relationships with employees they see in person.
 ''Your boss wants to be able to glance into your office and see that you're on task, and is more likely to invite you to an educational seminar or an after-work advice session if she can bump into you in the hall,'' the magazine writes. 
 FINAL TAKEYou can gain any number of business lessons from fairy tales, Melissa Balmain writes in Babytalk. For example:
 Beware of shaky real estate investments (The Three Little Pigs).
 Never miss a window of opportunity (Rapunzel).
 Don't trust an offer -- no matter how enticing -- if you are unfamiliar with who is making it (Hansel and Gretel).
 PAUL B. BROWN 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); WRITERS (77%); CASE STUDIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (70%); TELECOMMUTING (66%)

COMPANY: UNION BANK NA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



315 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Vacations Get Shorter, But Turn Up More Often

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
For years, Michele Clarke had trouble putting work aside and getting away with her husband and two young daughters for a rest. The last two-week vacation they took was in 2001, and Ms. Clarke, a corporate marketing consultant in Manhattan, worked through most of it on a laptop that her husband jokingly nicknamed ''the beast.''
 But for Mother's Day last year, Ms. Clarke, 43, piled her family into their minivan for a four-day jaunt to Newport, R.I. The food and sights were great, Ms. Clarke said, and when she got back to the office, she did not face a crushing buildup of work deferred.
 ''If it's only a day or two, there's no reason to obsess about it,'' she said. ''And the four- or five-day chunk is enough to feel refreshed.'' 
 Now hooked on quick getaways, Ms. Clarke went with her family this year on two four-day weekends to Cape Cod -- for Easter and again in June -- and to a Sesame Street theme park in Pennsylvania in July. In the coming weeks, they plan a four-day trip to Philadelphia to see a King Tut exhibit and the Liberty Bell, and later, a five-day trip to Cape Cod, where Ms. Clarke has relatives, and Maine and New Hampshire
 While such minibreaks used to supplement traditional vacations when work was slow, a growing number of Americans are now stacking up a series of shorter getaways and shunning longer stretches.
 In aggregate, the number of full-time employees who took less than an entire week off has more than doubled since 1990, according to the Current Population Survey compiled by the Bureau of Labor Statistics; in 2006, 7 percent more workers took off partial weeks than in 2005. At the same time, the percentage of all workers taking the full week off on any given week has declined by about a third since 1990, to 2.1 percent from 3 percent.
 ''People are more likely to take one or two days off instead of blocks of full weeks off,'' said Randy E. Ilg, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The reasons for the shift are varied. Shorter trips can be cheaper, and easier to coordinate for busy parents and children. For those with second homes, extending multiple weekends by a day or two might make more sense than a single summer chunk.
 But many workers, like Ms. Clarke, say the shift is motivated by an eagerness to keep up with their jobs.
 ''In a global economy, taking a week off is perceived in some occupations as giving an undue advantage to your competitors,'' said Jared Bernstein, the director of the Living Standards program at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal policy group in Washington. ''So you squeeze in a day here or there and maybe a longer weekend, rather than going away for a week or two, because it makes you too nervous that you might fall off the escalator.''
 A 2004 survey of 1,003 workers across the nation by the Families and Work Institute in New York City showed that 14 percent took vacations of two weeks or more during the year, while 37 percent took vacations shorter than seven days. The same study found 43 percent of workers felt ''overwhelmed by everything they have to do'' when they return from vacations.
 ''How we think about vacations has been turned upside down in the last few years,'' said John A. Challenger, the chief executive of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, a leading outplacement consultant. ''If you go away for a week or two weeks, that might leave a hole and you might be blamed for something that goes wrong.''
 Labor economists say that the trend toward shorter vacations is more commonly found at white-collar jobs where workers have specific knowledge that cannot be easily duplicated by co-workers filling in. Such workers may also have an easier time slipping away for more frequent brief breaks because they can remain in touch with their offices via cellphones, BlackBerrys and laptop computers.
 ''The notion of a standard vacation is a paradigm when people are on a fixed schedule,'' said Ron Glover, the vice president of work force diversity at I.B.M., which no longer tracks vacation days. ''But in a world where some people work from 7 to 2 and then break and come back in the evening, it doesn't make as much sense.''
 In years past, Bill McHugh, the director of customer service at Fiberlink Communications, and his wife, who works for General Electric, took two-week vacations to Bermuda, the Virgin Islands and California, leaving their children, now 3 and 6, with grandparents.
 Now, the McHughs have started taking long weekend trips as a family. So far this year, they have driven from their home in Lumberton, N.J., to the Jersey shore, Baltimore and Rhode Island. By checking his BlackBerry and laptop during the evenings, Mr. McHugh, 39, who runs a team of 36 people in a company of 200, can keep tabs on the office.
 ''I'm always somewhat connected,'' he said. ''If you take a Friday and a Monday, there's very little work that piles up, and you can catch up pretty quickly with some e-mail the night before you get back to the office.''
 Mr. McHugh says that it is easier to cover for co-workers when they take only a few days off at a time; just one of his employees, he noted, has taken two consecutive weeks off this year. 
 Alan Fleming, a 24-year-old consultant trying to make a name for himself at a PricewaterhouseCoopers office in Philadelphia, works very long hours when clients beckon, and takes short breaks instead of long vacations to rest without falling behind at work.
 ''If I take a long weekend, I only burn a few days of vacation and I only miss two days of work so there's less there when I get back,'' said Mr. Fleming, who used 12 of his 15 vacation days last year on a series of short trips to a beach house on the Delaware coast, to see relatives in Pennsylvania, and to the Carolinas to play golf with friends.
 Some workplace experts worry that the push toward shorter vacations is emblematic of how Americans have become slaves to their jobs, thinking first about work and second about their well-being and their families.
 ''In the United States, it's a red badge of courage to work late or on weekends,'' said Ellen Galinsky, the president of the Families and Work Institute. ''But we found that people who took shorter vacations were more burned out.''
 Ms. Clarke is hopeful, though, that more frequent, shorter breaks are better than the alternative: struggling to find any time off at all.
 ''I definitely still feel that vacations come at the convenience of my work,'' she said. ''But I'm trying to carve out more real time away, and when I'm away for shorter times, I have more peace of mind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michele Clarke at her office in Manhattan. She and her family have already enjoyed a number of four-day vacations this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GABRIELE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: MORE MINIBREAKS: A labor survey shows that more full-time workers are taking individual days off instead of full weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); FAMILY (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); STATISTICS (67%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%); LIVING STANDARDS (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%); LIBERALISM (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



316 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: In Automotive Trade Deficit, A Silver Lining for U.S.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
IT helps to have a weak dollar and a declining auto market. At least it helps if you want to lower the American trade deficit.
 The overall trade deficit for the United States peaked last summer and has been bouncing around since then, but with an overall downward direction. A significant part of the improvement has come in the American auto industry. 
 That improvement does not represent a new flowering of Detroit, but it does reflect the advantages of a weak dollar -- and it helps to explain why Japan has resisted a significant strengthening of the yen even while the euro has sharply appreciated against the dollar.
 The tables show the average monthly automotive trade balance over a three-month period, with the extended period used to smooth out volatility. The government reported this week that the average deficit in the three months that ended in June was under $10 billion, the first time that has happened in nearly five years.
 The trade deficit figures for the automobile industry include those for cars, trucks and auto parts. The auto parts deficit has been edging up in recent months, probably as a result of a rising market share for cars built in this country by Japanese companies, which tend to import many of the parts. But the trade deficit for cars is at its lowest level since September 2001, and the deficit in trucks has declined to the lowest level since 1998. 
 The decline in the trade deficit for the overall industry in the most recent three months was the largest since 1995. That year, the deficit corresponded with the dollar falling to record lows against the Japanese yen, in which the exchange rate fell as low as 80 yen to the dollar. Nearly half of the overall improvement then came in the automobile trade balance with Japan, as Japanese cars simply became too expensive for American consumers.
 By contrast, the dollar's average value in the second quarter was about 120 yen, about 5 percent more than a year earlier. The automotive deficit with Japan did improve over the year, but it accounted for about a fifth of the overall improvement in the United States' trade deficit for the automotive industry.
 This year, the dollar was down about 6 percent against the euro, which damaged German car sales in this country. Its auto trade surplus with the United States fell 30 percent, while that of Japan dropped 12 percent.
 The declining American trade deficit for the auto industry does not mean that this country is anywhere close to reaching a balance in the sector. During the second quarter, the United States imported $1.90 in automobiles and parts for every dollar of such goods it exported. That is the lowest ratio since 1998 and is down from $2.27 in the 2006 period. It is way below the record ratio of $4.22, reached in 1989. 
 But it still means that it would take a 31 percent increase in American auto exports, and a similar decrease in imports, to produce a balance in auto trade. That would require a much lower dollar -- and a much weaker American economy.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The American automobile industry has seldom seemed less robust, but the United States trade deficit in motor vehicles is shrinking at the fastest pace in more than a decade. (Source: Census Bureau, via Haver Analytics) There are two graphs shown. The first is a line graph detailing ''U.S. monthly trade deficit in cars, trucks and motor vehicle parts'' from 1990-2007. The second is a bar graph details ''Annual change in automotive trade deficit''. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); AUTOMOTIVE TRADE (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EURO (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); STATISTICS (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2007



317 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: August 19, 2007

 BODY:
05,05,06,64
 


		Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION					1		1	IT'S ALL ABOUT HIM, by Denise Jackson with Ellen Vaughn. (Thomas Nelson, $24.99.) The wife of the country music star Alan Jackson describes how religious faith restored her marriage.	2	1	8	LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Little, Brown, $24.99.) The only survivor of a Navy Seal operation in northern Afghanistan describes the battle, his comrades and his courageous escape.	3	2	4	QUIET STRENGTH, by Tony Dungy with Nathan Whitaker. (Tyndale, $26.99.) A memoir by the first black coach to win a Super Bowl (he did it with the Indianapolis Colts in February 2007).	4	3	14	GOD IS NOT GREAT, by Christopher Hitchens. (Twelve, $24.99.) Religion as a malignant force in the world.	5	4	25	A LONG WAY GONE, by Ishmael Beah. (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A former child soldier from Sierra Leone describes his drug-crazed killing spree and his return to humanity.	6	5	4	LEGACY OF ASHES, by Tim Weiner. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A history of the Central Intelligence Agency by a New York Times reporter, focusing on the agency's failures and delusions of grandeur.	7	6	4	THE WORLD WITHOUT US, by Alan Weisman. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $24.95.) What Earth would be like if humans disappeared.	8	9	14	ANIMAL, VEGETABLE, MIRACLE, by Barbara Kingsolver with Steven L. Hopp and Camille Kingsolver. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) The novelist and her family spend a year eating homegrown or local food.	9	10	3	THE PRINCE OF DARKNESS, by Robert D. Novak. (Crown Forum, $29.95.) Reflections on 50 years as a Washington journalist.	10*	7	8	THE DIANA CHRONICLES, by Tina Brown. (Doubleday, $27.50.) The Princess of Wales's relationship with the royal family and her romance with the media.	11		12	THE BLACK SWAN, by Nassim Nicholas Taleb. (Random House, $26.95.) The role of the unexpected.	12		3	MERLE'S DOOR, by Ted Kerasote. (Harcourt, $25.) Lessons from a freethinking dog: a nature writer's tribute to the quirky Labrador mutt he adopted.	13	8	11	THE ASSAULT ON REASON, by Al Gore. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) How the Bush administration has degraded the political environment.	12	105	14	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to nearly everything.	15		1	PROMISES TO KEEP, by Joe Biden. (Random House, $25.95.) The Delaware senator and 2008 presidential candidate reflects on his personal background and political career.			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	NONFICTION	1	1	11	A THOUSAND SPLENDID SUNS, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $25.95.) A friendship between two women in Afghanistan against the backdrop of 30 years of war.	2	3	5	THE QUICKIE, by James Patterson and Michael Ledwidge. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) A police officer's attempt to get back at her husband, whom she suspects of cheating on her, goes dangerously awry.	3	2	2	THE SECRET SERVANT, by Daniel Silva. (Putnam, $25.95.) Gabriel Allon, an art restorer and an occasional spy for the Israeli secret service, joins the search for the kidnapped daughter of an American ambassador.	4	4	4	HIGH NOON, by Nora Roberts. (Putnam, $26.95.) A hostage negotiator must face down her unknown stalker.	5	5	3	THE TIN ROOF BLOWDOWN, by James Lee Burke. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) The Louisiana detective Dave Robicheaux copes with the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.	6		1	BEYOND REACH, by Karin Slaughter. (Delacorte, $25.) In defending herself from murder charges, a police officer must confront her past.	7	6	7	LEAN MEAN THIRTEEN, by Janet Evanovich. (St. Martin's, $27.95.) The New Jersey bounty hunter Stephanie Plum becomes a suspect when her ex-husband disappears.	8	9	3	THE FIRST COMMANDMENT, by Brad Thor. (Atria, $25.95.) Scot Harvath, a Homeland Security superagent, is stalked by a terrorist released from GuantAnamo.	9	11	9	THE BOURNE BETRAYAL, by Eric Van Lustbader. (Warner, $25.99.) Robert Ludlum's character Jason Bourne tangles with a group of diabolical Islamic terrorists.	10	8	2	JUSTICE DENIED, by J. A. Jance. (Morrow, $25.95.) J. P. Beaumont's murder investigation suggests a conspiracy.	11*	7	3	UP CLOSE AND DANGEROUS, by Linda Howard. (Ballantine, $25.95.) After a suspicious plane crash, a woman struggles to find a way out of the Idaho wilderness.	12		1	IN AT THE DEATH, by Harry Turtledove. (Del Rey, $26.95.) The finale to the ''Settling Accounts'' alternative history series imagines an American war of secession in 1944.	13	10	2	thursday next, by Jasper Fforde. (Viking, $24.95.) In an alternative British universe, a special operative in literary detection must cope with a killer on the loose in the Bookworld; fifth in a series.	14	12	6	BUNGALOW 2, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) A writer deals with the effects of Hollywood success on her family life.	15		1	THE MAYTREES, by Annie Dillard (HarperCollins, $24.95.) The story of a long marriage between creative types, from romance to disillusionment to reconciliation.	16*	13	5	THE JUDAS STRAIN, by James Rollins. (Morrow, $25.95.) Sigma Force operatives trained in science investigate the re-emergence of an ancient plague.	 AFTERWARDS, by Rachel Seiffert. (Pantheon, $24.95.) In this exploration of how thoroughly society is disabled by war, Seiffert's British heroine struggles to understand her boyfriend and her grandfather, both deeply disturbed by their memories of violence.
 A HATRED FOR TULIPS, by Richard Lourie. (Thomas Dunne/St.Martin's, $22.95.) Lourie's novel places a heavy load of guilt on a Dutchman who claims to have betrayed Anne Frank as a teenager.
 Flower Children, by Maxine Swann. (Riverhead, $21.95.) This ''novel in stories'' offers shimmering, episodic glimpses into the life of a 1970s hippie family invigorated by its impulsive, bawdy father.
 VICTORY SQUARE, by Olen Steinhauer. (St. Martin's Minotaur, $24.95.) The end to Steinhauer's series of grim but fascinating police procedurals set in an unnamed Soviet-bloc nation very much like Romania. 
 AMERIGO: The Man Who Gave His Name to America, by Felipe FernAndez-Armesto. (Random House, $24.95.) Amerigo Vespucci, America's dubious namesake, was better at self-promotion than exploration, according to this wonderfully idiosyncratic biography.
 Eclipse, by Stephenie Meyer. (Megan Tingley/Little, Brown, $18.99; ages 12 and up.) A werewolf and a ravishing American Nosferatu are unequal rivals for the passions of a relentlessly intense high school girl.
 The Man in the White Sharkskin Suit: My Family's Exodus From Old Cairo to the New World, by Lucette Lagnado. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.95.) Lagnado, a Wall Street Journal reporter, relates how her Jewish family escaped the dangers of Nasser's Egypt in 1962 -- and how they longed to return.
 THE FIRST WORD: The Search for the Origins of Language, by Christine Kenneally. (Viking, $26.95.) With the waning of Noam Chomsky's long dominance in linguistics, other scholars are increasingly applying the principles of evolution to the field.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.
 Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended August 4, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount, department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (87%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); FAMILY (77%); RELIGION (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%); SPORTS (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); COUNTRY MUSIC (57%); CHILDREN (52%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (51%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (56%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (50%); AL GORE (50%); PRINCESS DIANA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (71%) INDIANA, USA (71%); DELAWARE, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007



318 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths FLOWERMAN, MARVIN S

 BODY:
 FLOWERMAN--Marvin S. International entrepreneur, sportsman, artist, and public servant, died August 12, 2007, at his home in Far Hills, NJ at age 82. Born in NYC to Joseph and Bessie A. Flowerman, Marvin graduated Brooklyn College at age eighteen to join the army. Just before departing, he married Leonora (Libby) Rosenberg, to whom he was married for 62 years. He fought in the Battle of the Bulge as a platoon sergeant and translator, and served in military government. 
Marvin parlayed his language proficiency to secure work in foreign trade and capitalized on opportunities he observed to establish in 1952 a business which more effectively served remote suppliers and their clientele. He traveled extensively, building decades-long friendships. He began a twenty-seven year partnership with Paul Greene in 1955, establishing PL Thomas Inc., a sister paper trading company, and several manufacturing companies. He also earned a Masters degree in international economics from the New School. He was joined in 1976 by his son Paul and guided him for nine years before moving on to pottery making, elected office and philanthropy in Far Hills. Building upon his previous studies of sculpting with John Terkin, drawing with Edwin Lanning, and ceramics at Raritan Valley Community College, Marvin set up a ceramics studio in his home with three kilns. After back problems forced him to give up his beloved competitive tennis (he served for many years as the tennis chairman for Roxiticus Golf Club) he also led the fund raising and construction of the greatly expanded Bedminster/Far Hills Library. He served six years as an elected Far Hills councilman, a position he resumed this past year to work very actively with the mayor and the police department. He was preparing for reelection as well as an art show. Mr. Flowerman is survived by his widow, Libby Flowerman, whose mutual love of piano playing brought them together, his brother Ted Flowerman, his daughter, Dr. Amy Cades and her husband Lonny Cades, son Paul Flowerman and his wife, Margot Jackler, and six grandchildren: Lisa and David Cades, Aviva Flowerman Vikstrom, and Josh, Seth, and Zac Flowerman. He was courageous in many facets of his life, and his accounts of his exotic adventures captivated multiple generations. He will be cherished for his devotion and generosity to his extended family, friends, and community. A funeral service was held Wednesday, August 15. at Temple B'nai Or, Overlook Road, Morristown, NJ. Donations may be made to Metrowest Jewish Foundation, Chromosome 18 Registry, or Memorial Sloan Kettering. For more info, Bernheim Apter Kreitzman 800-938-6372. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHILDREN (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); CHARITIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



319 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE BASICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: The Median, the Math and the Sex

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
David Gale, eminent emeritus mathematics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, member of the National Academy of Sciences, household name in certain rarefied circles, wanted to sound off about sex surveys. Over and over again, he said, they report results that logic dictates can't be right. The total number of sex partners for men, he said, must equal the total number for women. 
 So when I said I'd write about that for The New York Times, he was delighted. Do you think I'll get a response, he asked?
 Little did he know. The moment the article hit The Times's Web site last weekend, the e-mail messages flew and a discussion ensued that might be bewildering to the nonmathematician.
 Gotcha, readers said: Data in one of the surveys cited, they said, reported the median numbers of sexual partners -- and Dr. Gale's argument, they said, only holds for the average number of partners. 
 Some were polite. Andrew Odlyzko, a mathematician at the University of Minnesota, wrote, ''David Gale's argument is unimpeachable'' but there is this problem of medians.
 Others were blunt: ''Theorem: Professor Gale never went to prom. Proof: His High School Prom Theorem fatally assumes that everyone has a partner for every dance and no one ever sits out. The alternative is he has confused medians (at issue in the article) with means (averages, not middle-points in data), a rather elementary mistake for an emeritus professor of mathematics at Berkeley.''
 The problem, Dr. Gale says, is that people leapt to conclusions. He had looked at the actual data from the survey citing medians and found that it could not possibly be correct. Of course he knew the difference between a median and a mean.
 He wrote an explanation to send out to his numerous correspondents. But the e-mail messages kept coming. 
 A few correspondents, at least, were gracious. James Smith, an economist at the RAND Corporation, replied: ''Yes, my point was only that of a nerd,'' he wrote. ''I have no doubt that the puzzle you pointed out is indeed true and cannot be explained away by medians and means.'' 
 For the unconvinced, Dr. Gale's response: 
 What I did was to get a copy of the C.D.C. report and use the data in its tables. The C.D.C. groups people into four groups and gives percentage of men and women in each group 
 From these figures you can estimate the total partners claimed by each sex. I got between 40 percent and 75 percent more male than female partners depending on how you guess the average on each interval. Thus, the raw data is inconsistent (so it doesn't matter whether you take averages or medians or any other statistic). 
 I hope this clarifies. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RODRIGO CORRAL) CHART: Partners 0-1 2-6 7-14 15 or more partners Men 16.6 33.8 20.7 28.9 Women 25.0 44.3 21.3 9.4 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); WOMEN (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MEN (71%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007



320 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS The Immigration Influx

 BODY:
The Immigration Influx
 As Alex Kotlowitz reports, the contradictions and complexities of the immigration influx encourage cultural clashes and the accompanying fear and resentment (Aug. 5). Carpentersville, Ill., is a perfect microcosm of the national situation. People are inherently leery of the unknown. Just as the primary force spurring the illegal immigration explosion is economics, the impetus behind the backlash is fear. The result is that threatened Americans strike out at threatened immigrants, driving them farther underground and away from assimilation. Kotlowitz, with his probing look into circumstances and opinions of all sides involved, attempts to answer many questions, but one remains unresolved. When does fear and animus turn into bigotry? There is no conclusive evidence that Judy Sigwalt or Paul Humpfer are bigots, but many of their policies foster bigotry and are self-defeating. Compassion and compromise, not truculence and intimidation, will resolve the current immigration stalemate.
Wayne Trujillo 
 Denver
 Kotlowitz uses an Orwellian doublespeak term, ''without papers,'' to describe the state of persons who are in the country illegally. This is like calling a car thief a driver ''without papers'' because he does not have a title in the glove compartment with his name on it. 
 Scott Pomerantz
 Venice, Calif.
 The saddest part of the article was that after 28 years working for the largest employer in town, Darlene Hutchins makes a little over $10 an hour. If that is ''comparable with what other area factories pay if not actually more,'' it's not hard to imagine that America's middle class is disappearing completely. I can't believe that people are seriously considering a guest-worker system that will only accelerate the erosion of wages and buying power.
 Michael Kauffman
 Roslyn, N.Y.
 Our founding fathers considered, and rejected, designating English the new nation's official language. In the spirit of valuing linguistic diversity, let's put an end to the old joke: What do you call someone with two languages? Bilingual. What do you call someone with one language? American.
 Susan J. Behrens
 Brooklyn
 Getting Iraq Wrong
 Michael Ignatieff (Aug. 5) dismisses many of the early (and prescient) critics of the invasion of Iraq for ''indulging in ideology'' rather than ''exercising judgment.''
 It takes extraordinary chutzpah for those like Ignatieff, who were so passionately wrong about Iraq, to accuse the opponents of the war of being ideological, when in reality we were challenging the extremely ideological, indeed messianic, views of the war's proponents.
 The critics were not only right in predicting the disastrous consequences of the invasion but also in judging that those consequences flowed from the motives behind it, which we correctly said were rooted in the geopolitics of energy in the resource-rich Middle East. Ignatieff offers nothing, other than more ideology, to challenge this view.
 Anthony Arnove
 New York
 We were glad to see Michael Ignatieff addressing the problem of his support for the invasion of Iraq. But he fobs off his earlier warmongering as an example of a more general problem: academic naivete and intellectual fantasizing. Apparently, ''a sense of reality doesn't always flourish in elite institutions'' -- too much time at Harvard warped his judgment.
 But trying to suggest that the minute he walked into Harvard Yard, his critical faculties stopped working just won't do. We, too, were at Harvard in the run-up to the war, and the campus was convulsed with protests.
 If Ignatieff has spent the last five years praising the mistakes of credulous politicians, it isn't because too few people had a sense of reality about the war, either inside or outside academia; he just wasn't listening.
 Daniela Cammack
 David Grewal
 Cambridge, Mass.
 Ignatieff quotes his former mentor Isaiah Berlin as stating that academics care more about the interest of ideas than their truth. This may be true in the humanities and some of the social sciences, but it is definitely not true for the fields that really dominate the modern academy, the natural sciences. In the natural sciences, academics regularly kill their own interesting ideas in the pursuit of mundane truth, and admitting mistakes is a regular part of a scientist's life.
 Roger L. Albin
 Ann Arbor, Mich.
 As a good and friendly neighbor, this Canadian would like to apologize to all those on your side of the border for the lame, windy excuses now emanating from my fellow countrymen who, in light of current tragic realities, are rethinking their support for your president, his incompetent manipulators and their doomed-from-the-start, militaristic foray into Iraq.
 Please remember in the future that the main reason those like Ignatieff or the ''axis of evil'' coiner David Frum are down there messing in your affairs is that we long ago stopped listening to their cloistered ramblings up here.
 Wayne Scott
 Toronto
 Babys First Diet Pill
 ''Remaking the age-old survival mechanisms of the human body'' is, in the case of infant feeding, completely unnecessary (Annie Murphy Paul, Aug. 5). The age-old survival mechanism is still in place and still works. Human milk contains the appetite-regulating hormone leptin, and the act of breast-feeding allows a baby to be in control of how much he eats. These factors help explain why babies who are breast-fed are less likely to become obese as children and adults. Furthermore, breast-feeding is free, unlike specialty formulas. Mother Nature has it right.
 Margaret Bickmore
 Longmont, Colo.
 Questions for Mary Gordon
 Thinking (out loud, in a highly public forum) that ''no woman is electable in America'' is a sure way to help make it true (Deborah Solomon, Aug. 5). Mary Gordon is a role model for this country's female intelligentsia. Her publicly defeatist attitude is deplorable.
 Martha Woodworth
 Las Vegas
 Vacation, All I Never Wanted
 What's with Walter Kirn (Aug. 5)? ''Strip-mall day spas'' instead of vacs? He forgets to offer Disneyland in place of France, Spain, Italy and Thailand. American parochialism in operation. Just keep working, you slobs, and go down the corner for an ice cream!
 Gus Franza
 Moriches, N.Y. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL D'AMATO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (85%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); LINGUISTICS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2009



321 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: The Devil Sells Prada

BYLINE: By JACK SHAFER. 
Jack Shafer writes press criticism for Slate.

 BODY:
THE PRINCE OF DARKNESS 
 50 Years Reporting in Washington. 
 By Robert D. Novak. 
 Illustrated. 662 pp. Crown Forum. $29.95. 
 In this sprawling memoir, the journalist Robert D. Novak feeds his keyboard more than five decades of newspaper clips, expense account filings and graying memory to chronicle his career as political reporter, syndicated columnist, television commentator and, finally, leading character in the outing of the C.I.A. officer Valerie Plame. As artless as it is fascinating, ''The Prince of Darkness'' dishes gossip and delivers payback to enemies for ancient slights; and on nearly every page it illustrates Novak's noisome journalistic methods.
 Unlike other members of the commentariat, Novak has always been more a reporter than a pundit. He learned the art of covering politics at The Associated Press, where he worked two state capitals before being promoted to the wire service's Washington bureau. From The A.P. he went to The Wall Street Journal and in 1963 left to partner with the preppy Georgetown insider Rowland Evans Jr. in their eponymous column. Upon Evans's retirement in 1993, Novak became the column's sole proprietor. He has reported from battlefronts in Vietnam, Nicaragua and Rhodesia, and visited China for a sit-down with Deng Xiaoping. 
 Because politics is a game of inches, much of political journalism is a game of inches. Competing with the news pages for scoops, Novak has learned to dress up the tiniest motion as the crashing of tectonic plates. The ''clearest, cleanest scoop ever on a big story'' Evans and Novak probably ever had, he writes, was being first to report that President Richard Nixon had chosen Representative Melvin R. Laird as his new secretary of defense. The ''greatest scoop of my career'' within the global financial community comes when he reports that a weakened Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker could now be outvoted by his board. Novak understands that many of his triumphs are perishable, minor things. ''That column, I am sure, generated yawns from most readers,'' he writes.
 And yet the news miniatures scudding through Novak's flat prose have attracted readers because he gets Washington to speak to itself through his column. That the tidbits come wrapped in his conservatism have proved no barrier to Novak's access or journalistic success. Donkeys and elephants both take their beatings.
 Although he is often lumped with other conservatives, Novak belongs to a party of one. He was born in 1931. His father, a utility company superintendent, steered him toward liberal Republicanism and away from unions, Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal. As a very young reporter, he deliberately committed voter fraud by casting two ballots for Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1956. He voted for John Kennedy in 1960, for Lyndon Johnson in 1964 and then for Richard Nixon -- reluctantly, he says -- in 1968.
 Novak writes that the bedrock of his conservativism has been anti-Communism, as well as a commitment to supply-side economics; he also supports free trade and liberal immigration policies. He blames television for turning him into a ''right-wing ideologue'' because appearing on CNN's ''Crossfire'' required him to express views on subjects he rarely wrote about, like capital punishment, gay rights, abortion and gun control. But his opposition to the Persian Gulf war of 1991, his doubts about invading Afghanistan and his criticism of the war in Iraq separate him from most conservatives.
 His idiosyncratic conservatism seems congenital, an expression of the lifelong pessimism that inspired a journalist friend to call him the ''prince of darkness'' in the early 1960s. Recalling his youth, Novak remembers being viewed as arrogant (what a surprise!). ''I am not a person who is easy for a lot of people to like,'' he writes, twice naming my former boss Michael Kinsley as one who scorns him. But he considers a sour disposition an asset, not a liability. ''No stirrer-up of strife is ever very popular,'' he says. 
 ''Little in Washington is on the level,'' Novak writes, but ''The Prince of Darkness'' reads convincingly because it's so unflattering to its author. He confesses to lying about the source of a memo to protect the leaker, of writing that Nixon's aide Charles Colson wouldn't comment for a story when Colson was the story's source and of shielding Jeane Kirkpatrick with the pronoun ''he'' to give her added anonymity. He regrets having neglected his family. Until a near-fatal case of spinal meningitis killed his taste for alcohol, he was a lush, drinking cocktails as fast as he could swizzle them and draining bottles of Scotch. (There's so much boozing in this book that it makes you thirsty.) In 1978, he was wagering $1,000 a day on sports (about $3,200 in today's money). ''I suppose I had a gambling problem to accompany my drinking problem,'' Novak writes, relying on understatement for perhaps the first time in his career.
 Novak has long denied operating a journalistic protection racket, but he testifies many times in his book to giving politicians the choice of being his source or his target. Evans and Novak were gentle with Alexander Haig because he was a longtime Evans source. Nixon's chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, ''was treated more harshly because he refused any connection with me. He made himself more of a target than he had to be by refusing to be a source.'' When David Gergen -- not someone simpatico with Novak -- leaks to him in 1981 from the Reagan White House, Novak figures it out. ''I think Gergen, the ultimate Washington survivor, was working the source-or-target model with me. Gergen never really became my source, but he was not my target either -- which I believe was his intent.'' 
 ''Journalists like to give the impression they develop exclusive stories through exhaustive investigation and research,'' Novak confides, but most scoops emerge after journalists have spent a lot of time with sources at fancy restaurants. When the source finally decides to sing, a good columnist knows where to find the microphone. (Imagine ants farming aphids for honeydew at Sans Souci, and you get the picture.)
 The Washington journalist-source relationship is ''symbiotic'' and ''built on self-interest,'' Novak says, and what a source list he has compiled! Russell Long, Everett Dirksen, Barry Goldwater, Bill Moyers, Lyndon Johnson, Eugene McCarthy, Hubert Humphrey, Robert S. Strauss, Melvin Laird, Wilbur Mills, the Nixon aides Bob Ellsworth and John Sears, William C. Sullivan (No. 3 at Hoover's F.B.I.), Jeb Magruder, Charles Colson, William S. Cohen, Trent Lott, Ken Clawson, Maureen Reagan, John Lehman, Richard Perle, W. Michael Blumenthal, James Baker, Edwin Meese, Donald Regan, Caspar Weinberger, James Watt, Martin Anderson, Lyn Nofziger, David Stockman, Jimmy Carter's speechwriter James Fallows, Elliott Abrams, John Sununu, Vin Weber, Dick Morris, Karl Rove (a ''grade A-plus source'') and William Kristol all get credit for feeding him.
 When a Novak source delivers, he really delivers. In 1971, according to Novak, the Nixon speechwriter William Safire -- who later became a New York Times columnist -- walked domestic intelligence documents from the White House to Novak's office, one block away. The handoff was made behind the building. A legislative assistant for Senator Jesse Helms, he says, provided Evans and Novak with a year's worth of classified documents.
 One problem with Novak-style scoop journalism is that reporters don't always know what's in the water they're carrying. In spring 1972, the Nixon aide Jeb Magruder showed Novak a White House ''internal memo'' at Sans Souci that threatened to move that year's Republican National Convention from San Diego to Miami Beach unless the city got its act together. The Evans and Novak ''scoop'' sourced the memo to the ''habitually secretive Nixon men.'' In his 1974 book, ''An American Life,'' Magruder crowed that ''my talk with Novak resulted in a column that said exactly what we hoped it would say.'' He leaked to the pair for maximum impact and to make it appear as if the administration was unhappy with San Diego when what it actually feared was large antiwar demonstrations that local authorities couldn't control.
 ''I had been used,'' Novak writes, with what appears to be genuine shock. ''Nixon had cracked the code on Evans and Novak. We were so ravenous for exclusive news that we were susceptible to manipulations by leaks, compromising our credibility. I am surprised other politicians did not use this technique and surprised Nixon used it so seldom.'' 
 Cracked the code? Did Novak not read his own book as he composed it? As he knows, few leaks to journalists are unadulterated whistleblowing. Sources usually have motives, often ulterior, and the competent journalist finds a way to tease out real news when publishing self-serving tips like Magruder's.
 It would make for a neat conclusion to this review if another ''code-cracker'' were behind Novak's publication of Valerie Plame's C.I.A. identity. Some liberals accused Novak of actively conspiring with the Bush administration to punish Ambassador Joseph C. Wilson IV, a critic of its Iraq policy, by publishing the name and occupation of his wife in a July 2003 column. If he hadn't been part of the conspiracy, they say, he was its dupe.
 But Novak protests that he learned her identity from Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage. ''I am sure it was not a planned leak,'' Novak insists. He makes a credible case that his aim in writing the column was to examine the logic of the C.I.A.'s sending Wilson, whom he considers an intelligence lightweight, to Niger on the yellowcake fact-finding mission. Novak writes that he thought the Wilson trip may well have been designed by the agency to undermine the Bush administration. Supporting that claim is the oddly understated manner in which the Plame information pops up in Novak's column. If Armitage's leak was a bomb directed at Wilson, Novak turned it into a bit of a dud.
 Journalism is the first rough draft of history, Philip Graham, the publisher of The Washington Post, once said. Many Novak columns -- including the Plame piece -- are first rough drafts of journalism; they require further assembly by readers. While other writers concentrate on the arteries of power, Novak has made a specialty of the capillaries. Still, his book is an enlightening field guide to the politicians and journalists who inhabit those micro places.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY FALLS)(pg. BR15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); POLITICS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (63%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (70%)

TITLE: Prince of Darkness, The: 50 Years Reporting in Washington (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



322 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: The Immigration Influx

 BODY:
The Immigration Influx
 As Alex Kotlowitz reports, the contradictions and complexities of the immigration influx encourage cultural clashes and the accompanying fear and resentment (Aug. 5). Carpentersville, Ill., is a perfect microcosm of the national situation. People are inherently leery of the unknown. Just as the primary force spurring the illegal immigration explosion is economics, the impetus behind the backlash is fear. The result is that threatened Americans strike out at threatened immigrants, driving them farther underground and away from assimilation. Kotlowitz, with his probing look into circumstances and opinions of all sides involved, attempts to answer many questions, but one remains unresolved. When does fear and animus turn into bigotry? There is no conclusive evidence that Judy Sigwalt or Paul Humpfer are bigots, but many of their policies foster bigotry and are self-defeating. Compassion and compromise, not truculence and intimidation, will resolve the current immigration stalemate.
 Wayne Trujillo 
 Denver
 Kotlowitz uses an Orwellian doublespeak term, ''without papers,'' to describe the state of persons who are in the country illegally. This is like calling a car thief a driver ''without papers'' because he does not have a title in the glove compartment with his name on it. 
 Scott Pomerantz
 Venice, Calif.
 The saddest part of the article was that after 28 years working for the largest employer in town, Darlene Hutchins makes a little over $10 an hour. If that is ''comparable with what other area factories pay if not actually more,'' it's not hard to imagine that America's middle class is disappearing completely. I can't believe that people are seriously considering a guest-worker system that will only accelerate the erosion of wages and buying power.
 Michael Kauffman
 Roslyn, N.Y.
 Our founding fathers considered, and rejected, designating English the new nation's official language. In the spirit of valuing linguistic diversity, let's put an end to the old joke: What do you call someone with two languages? Bilingual. What do you call someone with one language? American.
 Susan J. Behrens
 Brooklyn
 Getting Iraq Wrong
 Michael Ignatieff (Aug. 5) dismisses many of the early (and prescient) critics of the invasion of Iraq for ''indulging in ideology'' rather than ''exercising judgment.''
 It takes extraordinary chutzpah for those like Ignatieff, who were so passionately wrong about Iraq, to accuse the opponents of the war of being ideological, when in reality we were challenging the extremely ideological, indeed messianic, views of the war's proponents.
 The critics were not only right in predicting the disastrous consequences of the invasion but also in judging that those consequences flowed from the motives behind it, which we correctly said were rooted in the geopolitics of energy in the resource-rich Middle East. Ignatieff offers nothing, other than more ideology, to challenge this view.
 Anthony Arnove
 New York
 We were glad to see Michael Ignatieff addressing the problem of his support for the invasion of Iraq. But he fobs off his earlier warmongering as an example of a more general problem: academic naivete and intellectual fantasizing. Apparently, ''a sense of reality doesn't always flourish in elite institutions'' -- too much time at Harvard warped his judgment.
 But trying to suggest that the minute he walked into Harvard Yard, his critical faculties stopped working just won't do. We, too, were at Harvard in the run-up to the war, and the campus was convulsed with protests.
 If Ignatieff has spent the last five years praising the mistakes of credulous politicians, it isn't because too few people had a sense of reality about the war, either inside or outside academia; he just wasn't listening.
 Daniela Cammack
 David Grewal
 Cambridge, Mass.
 Ignatieff quotes his former mentor Isaiah Berlin as stating that academics care more about the interest of ideas than their truth. This may be true in the humanities and some of the social sciences, but it is definitely not true for the fields that really dominate the modern academy, the natural sciences. In the natural sciences, academics regularly kill their own interesting ideas in the pursuit of mundane truth, and admitting mistakes is a regular part of a scientist's life.
 Roger L. Albin
 Ann Arbor, Mich.
 As a good and friendly neighbor, this Canadian would like to apologize to all those on your side of the border for the lame, windy excuses now emanating from my fellow countrymen who, in light of current tragic realities, are rethinking their support for your president, his incompetent manipulators and their doomed-from-the-start, militaristic foray into Iraq.
 Please remember in the future that the main reason those like Ignatieff or the ''axis of evil'' coiner David Frum are down there messing in your affairs is that we long ago stopped listening to their cloistered ramblings up here.
 Wayne Scott
 Toronto
 Babys First Diet Pill
 ''Remaking the age-old survival mechanisms of the human body'' is, in the case of infant feeding, completely unnecessary (Annie Murphy Paul, Aug. 5). The age-old survival mechanism is still in place and still works. Human milk contains the appetite-regulating hormone leptin, and the act of breast-feeding allows a baby to be in control of how much he eats. These factors help explain why babies who are breast-fed are less likely to become obese as children and adults. Furthermore, breast-feeding is free, unlike specialty formulas. Mother Nature has it right.
 Margaret Bickmore
 Longmont, Colo.
 Questions for Mary Gordon
 Thinking (out loud, in a highly public forum) that ''no woman is electable in America'' is a sure way to help make it true (Deborah Solomon, Aug. 5). Mary Gordon is a role model for this country's female intelligentsia. Her publicly defeatist attitude is deplorable.
 Martha Woodworth
 Las Vegas
 Vacation, All I Never Wanted
 What's with Walter Kirn (Aug. 5)? ''Strip-mall day spas'' instead of vacs? He forgets to offer Disneyland in place of France, Spain, Italy and Thailand. American parochialism in operation. Just keep working, you slobs, and go down the corner for an ice cream!
 Gus Franza
 Moriches, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL D'AMATO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (85%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); LINGUISTICS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



323 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS

 BODY:
Measuring the Subprime Mess
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Chicken Little's Brethren, on the Trading Floor'' (Everybody's Business, Aug. 12), in which Ben Stein saw much overreaction to the subprime mortgage problem: 
 I have a different take on the market events of Friday, Aug. 10. In my view, when the Federal Reserve intervenes to inject liquidity into the market, in the form of many billions of dollars, and the European Central Bank ponies up even more, so to avoid a financial crisis, that is breathtaking.
 And when such action could help some major financial stocks to finish that week on the upside, that is outrageous. It's another reason for Europe to object to our practices, and I and my children will pay for such folly. Dennis R. Wanless
 Burlington, N.C., Aug. 13
 To the Editor:
 The current crisis in the subprime mortgage market doesn't stand alone in causing the global market malaise. However, it is a concrete example of the wisdom in the axiom, ''Trees don't grow to the sky.'' Not trees, or prices for homes, either.
 Then we look to another idea -- that by the part shall you know the whole. The ''part'' here is the madness of subprime mortgages. What then can we surmise about the banks that made them, and the hedge funds that bought them? And what of the health, pension, and public trust funds that put their money into those hedge funds? What further ''surprises'' are in store? 
 Allow me to go from axiom to platitude: ''You ain't seen nothin' yet.'' Richard Roberts
 Paris, Aug. 13
 To the Editor:
 Like the dot-com era, the subprime bubble period was the proverbial ''emperor with no clothes.'' The investment model was not based on sound fundamentals. This is a natural correction and, in the long run, good for all.
 Fund analysts could have, or should have, seen the eventual effects of these lending practices. I think that many of the stock-market bulls yearn for the good old days of ''irrational exuberance.'' Martin Whalen
 Millington, N.J., Aug. 13
 Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); HOME PRICES (51%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (70%) EUROPE (72%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



324 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE BASICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: The Banks Roll Up Their Sleeves

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Injections aren't just for Botox. 
 In times of financial uncertainty, the Federal Reserve makes what are known as ''liquidity injections'' into the banking system. There's no syringe. No needle. In fact, the Fed doesn't even use real money. A ''liquidity injection'' is Wall Street parlance for cheap, easy loans to banks. 
 Over the last two weeks, the Fed has injected tens of billions of dollars into the market to calm financial markets spooked by fears that credit is tightening. How does that work exactly? 
 Injections usually are not necessary. Banks typically borrow money from each other for brief periods to shore up cash reserves. A bank seeking a short-term loan from another bank will offer up something it owns, like a mortgage-backed security, to guarantee repayment. And voila! it gets the loan.
 But as recent events have demonstrated, these aren't normal times. 
 Banks lately have grown stingy about making loans, even to the most credit-worthy institutions. The reason is the uncertainty about the value of the collateral after the collapse of the subprime mortgage market. Banks looking for short-term loans face the prospect of paying higher interest rates.
 Enter the Federal Reserve. One of the Fed's most important jobs is to ensure that the interest rates that banks charge one another do not fluctuate too much. To keep interest rates from rising, it can offer up liquidity -- Fedspeak for a loan -- to banks in need so they do not have to borrow at high rates.
 ''What they're doing now is to make sure there's plenty of cash in the system,'' said Ethan Harris, chief United States economist for Lehman Brothers. When the Fed injects liquidity, it is not actually dipping into its cash reserves, but crediting a dollar amount to the balance sheets of the banks. ''All they do is write down a number and credit that amount of cash to the bank,'' Mr. Harris said. ''It's a bookkeeping entry.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



325 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: The Extreme Boulevardier

BYLINE: By ALEX MARSHALL. 
Alex Marshall is author of ''Beneath the Metropolis: The Secret Lives of Cities.''

 BODY:
THERE must have been someplace, somewhere, at some time, that was a better, richer environment to walk in than New York today. Constantinople in the year A.D. 1200 comes to mind, or Venice a few centuries later. 
 But in this country right now, it's hard to imagine a place that surpasses New York, particularly Manhattan. Its buildings and streets, built at a greater intensity than anywhere else in the United States, offer a lode of sensory information. 
 Most New Yorkers, of course, while they profess to enjoy walking, usually do it no more than they have to. They walk to and from the train station, for example, en route to the office or a movie. But others adopt what might be called long walking, regularly walking 20, 40 or 60 blocks to work, school or appointments. And in recent years, as the city has grown cleaner, safer and more prosperous, their numbers are growing.
 Dedicated long walkers often discover the pleasures of walking by accident. It was insomnia, for example, that prompted Randy Swearer to begin walking to his offices at Parsons the New School for Design near Union Square from his home in Brooklyn Heights. 
 ''I couldn't sleep one night,'' said Mr. Swearer, who was dean of the school until 2004, ''and once the dawn broke I just thought, 'I've got to get out of this apartment.' So I walked to work, and I saw all of this amazing stuff: delivery trucks unloading weird junk, phenomenal light plays on the buildings, fabulous wall postings and graffiti, wonderfully eccentric people, etc. 
 ''It was like going to the theater. So I started walking to work, and after a few months liked it so much that I walked home too, about eight miles total.''
 New Yorkers have always walked, but they walked differently in different eras in the city's four centuries. 
 When the city was confined to the tip of Lower Manhattan in the 1600s and early 1700s, long walks were impossible, at least within the city proper. By the late 18th century, as the city expanded north past what is now Chambers and Canal Streets, the potential length of walks grew. But most daily walks remained short because most people still lived near where they worked. 
 That was the situation even after the completion of the Erie Canal in 1825 set off an economic explosion that made New York the country's dominant hub for commerce and industry. The city rapidly expanded uptown, propelled by both economic growth and new horse-drawn contraptions called omnibuses, which would eventually morph into streetcars and elevated train lines. But for decades, only the relatively privileged rode them. 
 ''It was only over the next 75 years that the riding habit caught on,'' said Kenneth Jackson, editor of the Encyclopedia of New York City and a professor of history at Columbia University. ''And at first it was only with people with more money. If you lived on the Lower East Side, you weren't going to take the streetcar. A nickel was a nickel.''
 STILL, as the number of those who could afford to ride grew, those who could ride but chose not to began to stand out. The 19th century was the age of the flaneur and the boulevardier, figures who made strolling down Fifth Avenue or Broadway, often vividly attired, a fashionable activity worthy of their counterparts in Paris or London. 
 Walking city streets played the same role for some New Yorkers as rambling through the forests and streams did for Henry David Thoreau. In a famous 1851 lecture and subsequent essay, titled simply ''Walking,'' Thoreau declared: ''I cannot preserve my health and spirits unless I spend four hours a day at least -- and it is commonly more than that -- sauntering through the woods and over the hills and fields absolutely free from all worldly engagements.''
 During those years, the journalist Walter Whitman, who as a poet would later go by the name Walt Whitman, could be found mining the streets on foot for stories for The Brooklyn Daily Eagle and other newspapers. ''Duding himself up,'' Mike Wallace and Edwin G. Burrows wrote in ''Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898,'' Whitman ''strolled around town, sporting a polished cane, absorbing scenes and characters.'' The account continues: ''Whitman particularly explored the plebeian world of popular culture, visiting fire companies, gambling dens, whorehouses, and theaters, and he wrote up richly detailed sketches of newsboys, pawnbrokers, stage drivers, salesclerks and butchers.''
 After the Brooklyn Bridge opened in 1883, a steady stream of traffic traveled over the great stone structure linking Lower Manhattan to Brooklyn. A notable member of the crowd, according to Seth Kamil, president of Big Onion Walking Tours, was Mayor William Gaynor, who walked every day from his home in Park Slope to City Hall.
 Another great walker around that period was a scholar and editor named John Huston Finley. Born in 1863, he taught politics at Princeton, served as president of City College of New York and was for two decades an editor of The New York Times. And every year for 30 years, Mr. Finley took a birthday walk around Manhattan. So prodigious a walker was he that a pathway in Carl Schurz Park on the Upper East Side was named in his honor in 1941, the year after his death. 
 Among more recent long walkers was the poet Charles Reznikoff, who died in 1976. Mr. Reznikoff habitually walked 20 miles a day, starting from his home on the Upper West Side and typically passing through poorer ethnic neighborhoods in search of moments that would inspire him to write.
 The flaneur as such has largely disappeared, but some days it can seem as if all New Yorkers are boulevardiers, walking both to see and to be seen. According to the Federal Highway Administration, more than half a million -- 5.6 percent -- of the nine million workers in the New York metropolitan area walk to work daily. Though that percentage may not sound like much, it is the highest in the country, followed by Boston, where about 4 percent of the nearly three million workers in the metropolitan area walk to work.
 One reason for the resurgence of walking is that city streets are cleaner and safer than in decades past. A stroll around Union Square, TriBeCa or the Upper West Side no longer means skirting drug dealers and over-full trash cans. There are fewer muggers. Even the air smells sweeter.
 With Brooklyn and Queens having absorbed the bulk of city's population growth over the last 15 years, there has also been an increase in pedestrian traffic over the Brooklyn Bridge and the 59th Street Bridge. Even the 12-day transit strike of 1980 may have contributed to the trend; it was around that time that many women adopted the habit of walking to work in sneakers, then slipping on their high-heeled shoes once they reached the office. 
 But whatever the motivation, for some, the rewards are deeply alluring.
 ''Each New Yorker can seem like a minor character who has honed his or her persona into a sharp, three-second cameo,'' Phillip Lopate wrote in his book ''Waterfront: A Walk Around Manhattan,'' in a chapter titled ''On the Aesthetics of Urban Walking.'' ''You have only an instant to catch the passer-by's unique gesture or telltale accessory.'' 
 Mr. Lopate once described a ''rhythm of walking and thinking'': ''The legs get the mind going at a certain pace. There is a continued alternation between outside stimulation and the interior monologue that's going on in your head. There is the whole Eros of walking. You pass something that you fall in love with and which you'll never see again.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRAINS (75%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); THEATER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



326 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Racing Becomes Afterthought as Focus Turns to Breeding and Big Bucks

BYLINE: By BILL FINLEY

DATELINE: SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y., Aug. 17 

 BODY:
The winner of next Saturday's Travers, Saratoga's marquee race, will join a list that includes marquee names like Man o' War and Whirlaway. 
 But this year's race will hardly have a marquee field. The Kentucky Derby winner Street Sense will take on a small group of overmatched rivals, a situation emblematic of a sport in which it can make more sense to duck a challenge than to embrace one.
 Street Sense is a star, but he is not alone. The list of elite 3-year-olds in the country also includes the Preakness Stakes winner Curlin, the Belmont Stakes winner Rags to Riches, the Kentucky Derby runner-up Hard Spun and the division's newest sensation, the Haskell winner Any Given Saturday. 
 Everyone is healthy, and had all five been entered, the Travers would have been considered among the best and most interesting races of an era. 
 Instead, the $1 million Travers will serve as a glaring example of the new realities of horse racing, a sport in which the competitors seem to be merely auditioning for the booming breeding industry and can be so fragile that most trainers say they need a month or more to recover from the rigors of a race.
 ''These guys are training horses that are so valuable that you have to pick your spots very carefully,'' said the trainer Bob Baffert, who won the 2001 Travers with Point Given but does not have a top 3-year-old in his barn this year. ''You don't want to take any risks that might devalue your horse in any way. Sometimes, you just can't afford to get these horses beat.''
 Trained by Todd Pletcher, Any Given Saturday has earned $989,213 during his nine-start career. That may be a healthy sum, but it hardly compares with his value as a sire. 
 After Any Given Saturday won the Haskell at Monmouth Park on Aug. 5, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum bought his breeding rights. The sale price was not disclosed, but Bill Oppenheim, who studies the breeding market, said he believed Any Given Saturday was worth about $30 million as a stallion prospect. 
 Considering that the winner of the Travers receives only $600,000, it is clear why an owner or a trainer of a $30 million horse may think twice about running in such a race.
 ''Everyone wants to see the stars stick around and race more, but the economics of the game just don't support that,'' said Pletcher, who also trains the filly Rags to Riches. 
 ''You have horses worth $35,000 racing in $35,000 claiming races and the purse is $50,000. Then what should a $25 million horse run for? Or a $50 million horse? There is an economic risk to running these horses that are worth so much as stallion prospects. People would like this to only be a sport, but you have to look at things from an economic standpoint.'' 
 Steve Asmussen, the trainer of Curlin, was even more blunt. ''Realistically, these aren't racehorses,'' he said. ''They're breeding stock, and someone lets you run them for a little while.'' 
 Still, there are races that are so prestigious that the rewards of a potential victory outweigh the risks. The Kentucky Derby is one. Another is the Breeders' Cup Classic, which will be run Oct. 27 at Monmouth Park in New Jersey. The purse is $5 million, enough to entice owners of even the most valuable horses to run. And a Classic victory is sure to add a few million on to a horse's value as a sire. 
 After the Triple Crown events are over, many trainers concentrate their efforts on bringing their horses to a peak on Breeders' Cup day. To most, that means keeping their horses fresh for the big day and making sure they have not been overraced in the days and months leading up to the main event.
 That is among the reasons Any Given Saturday will not be running in the Travers. Pletcher said he did not feel it was in the horse's best interests to run 20 days after his Haskell win. Instead, he will have only one race between now and the Breeders' Cup, the Brooklyn on Sept. 22 at Belmont Park, which is worth only $150,000. The same goes for Curlin, who will be entered in the Jockey Club Gold Cup on Sept. 30 at Belmont.
 It was not that long ago that top horses ran every few weeks and made 15 or 16 starts a year. Today, they seem unable to stand up to that sort of campaign, and many top trainers say that well-rested horses have an advantage.
 ''As a group, we sat down and thought about how best to get him to the Breeders' Cup Classic,'' Asmussen said of Curlin. ''Would he run well in the Travers? Yes. But I don't think it's realistic for me to think that I could run in the Travers and keep him at that peak level for the next 60 days until the Breeders' Cup.''
 Even Street Sense's racing program has been planned with the Breeders' Cup in mind. He was kept out of the Belmont Stakes because the colt's trainer, Carl Nafzger, did not think he would hold up to a schedule that included the Belmont, the Travers and the Breeders' Cup. 
 Oppenheim said: ''The Breeders' Cup Classic is still one of those races you have to show up for. That's why everyone makes it their No. 1 end-of-the-season target.''
 That's good for the Breeders' Cup Classic, but not for races like the Travers. The race doesn't figure to be much of a contest, maybe nothing more than a lucrative public workout for Street Sense. He will then race two more times this year and will probably be retired after the Breeders' Cup. That would mean a career that lasted less than 2 years and consisted of 13 starts. 
 In this peculiar era of horse racing, Street Sense seems like a workhorse. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rags to Riches (7) and Curlin, background, are among the elite horses who will not be in next Saturday's Travers at Saratoga. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT LAFORET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); HORSES (89%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



327 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; NOISE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Next Step for Rerouting Planes May Be in Court

BYLINE: By BARBARA S. PETERSON

 BODY:
AFTER nearly nine years of study and more than a hundred public meetings, Federal Aviation Administration officials say they are weeks away from issuing a final decision on how to reroute airline flights over the region to ease bottlenecks in the sky. Communities that fear a sharp increase in the number of flights rumbling overhead are now turning to what they say is their only chance to stave off noise pollution: the courts.
 ''A lawsuit is a near certainty,'' said Jerome Feder of the New Jersey Coalition Against Aircraft Noise, based in Scotch Plains. ''There are so many legal bases to litigate on, and I believe we can defeat it.'' 
 Mr. Feder said the opponents would argue that the F.A.A. had ignored environmental and economic considerations when it rejected alternative proposals that would have sent more planes over the ocean or above nonresidential areas like industrial plants.
 What prompted alarm among many officials in the area was the release early this month of the F.A.A.'s final environmental impact study on its proposals for carving out new routes in the sky. Not only did that trigger a 30-day countdown for the agency to release its final routing plan, now expected shortly after Labor Day, but it also provided fresh details on the F.A.A.'s intentions. 
 The F.A.A. has not commented on the final scope of the plan, but has maintained that any increase in noise would be minimal. ''Nothing is going to happen immediately,'' said Jim Peters, a spokesman for the agency, who pointed out that retraining air traffic controllers to put the changes in place is likely to take several months.
 It is widely expected, however, that the F.A.A. will spread flights out over a wider area, fanning departures in what it calls an ''integrated'' solution to gridlock in the skies. The most tangible effect, according to consultants hired by area officials, is that air traffic would be layered, pushing some flights to lower altitudes to make space for other flights above.
 It is those additional flight corridors that are at issue, since some would put aircraft noise over areas that either aren't accustomed to it, or have reached their limit of tolerance, said Judy Neville, the first selectwoman of New Canaan, Conn., a longtime opponent of the F.A.A.'s rerouting attempts. ''This is far worse than we imagined,'' she said.
 The Coalition Against Aircraft Noise has contacted Ms. Neville and officials in at least a dozen towns in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut that are believed to be among the most likely to feel the effects of new flight patterns. And as more information emerges about the plan's possible impact, more communities are indicating a willingness to consider legal action, Mr. Feder said. 
 ''This plan would have unacceptable impacts on Westchester,'' said the county executive, Andrew J. Spano, citing a recent study on the environmental impact on the county. ''People who never worried about aircraft noise will find it has become an issue,'' he said, saying that communities that could experience more noise include parts of Yonkers, Hawthorne, Thornwood, Peekskill, North Salem, Pound Ridge and Chappaqua. Mr. Spano said that while Westchester had filed comments with the F.A.A. twice in the past year, the agency had not provided the detailed data he needed until two days before the deadline.
 This month, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Nita M. Lowey of Westchester wrote to the F.A.A. administrator, Marion C. Blakey, asking for a delay, and also complaining about the lack of timely information. ''Thousands of residents are already negatively impacted by flights taking off and landing at Westchester Country, LaGuardia and Newark Airports,'' they wrote. ''The first major overhaul of airspace in almost 50 years warrants a fair and extensive public notification process.'' 
 The F.A.A. has not formally responded to the legislators, Mr. Peters said, but he added, ''There will be no more meetings.'' 
 How successful any legal challenge to the F.A.A. might be is uncertain. Last month, an attempt in the House of Representatives to block the plan by withholding federal financing was soundly defeated, 360 to 65. The vote came during consideration of the F.A.A.'s 2008 budget; several representatives from the region, including Ms. Lowey, said they would try to bring up the amendment to withhold financing again.
 Opponents of the F.A.A.'s airspace redesign have questioned its predictions that, among other things, it will eliminate some 12 million minutes of airline delays each year, for an average saving of six minutes for each late flight. Other studies have suggested that the savings would be negligible, especially if the airlines take advantage of the added efficiency by scheduling more flights.
 Recent statistics from the federal Department of Transportation showed that Newark, LaGuardia and Kennedy were the three most delay-prone among large airports in the country for the first half of 2007. The figures also showed that delays nationwide this summer had been the worst since the department started tracking them 13 years ago. 
 For those who must travel for business or work in the industry, the benefit of reducing airport delays often competes with a desire to reduce airplane noise at home.
 John Owen, a former airline industry executive who lives in Fairfield County under the approach pattern to White Plains Airport, is familiar with the paradox. ''Everybody wants to fly out of the convenient airport, but nobody wants to hear the noise,'' he said. ''You can't have both.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FLIGHT ALERT Judy Neville, New Canaan, Conn., first selectwoman, says an expected F.A.A. plan to ease gridlock is ''far worse than we imagined.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT MULLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); NOISE POLLUTION (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



328 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; NOISE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Next Step for Rerouting Planes May Be in Court

BYLINE: By BARBARA S. PETERSON

 BODY:
AFTER nearly nine years of study and more than a hundred public meetings, Federal Aviation Administration officials say they are weeks away from issuing a final decision on how to reroute airline flights over the region to ease bottlenecks in the sky. Communities that fear a sharp increase in the number of flights rumbling overhead are now turning to what they say is their only chance to stave off noise pollution: the courts.
 ''A lawsuit is a near certainty,'' said Jerome Feder of the New Jersey Coalition Against Aircraft Noise, based in Scotch Plains. ''There are so many legal bases to litigate on, and I believe we can defeat it.'' 
 Mr. Feder said the opponents would argue that the F.A.A. had ignored environmental and economic considerations when it rejected alternative proposals that would have sent more planes over the ocean or above nonresidential areas like industrial plants.
 What prompted alarm among many officials in the area was the release early this month of the F.A.A.'s final environmental impact study on its proposals for carving out new routes in the sky. Not only did that trigger a 30-day countdown for the agency to release its final routing plan, now expected shortly after Labor Day, but it also provided fresh details on the F.A.A.'s intentions. 
 The F.A.A. has not commented on the final scope of the plan, but has maintained that any increase in noise would be minimal. ''Nothing is going to happen immediately,'' said Jim Peters, a spokesman for the agency, who pointed out that retraining air traffic controllers to put the changes in place is likely to take several months.
 It is widely expected, however, that the F.A.A. will spread flights out over a wider area, fanning departing flights out from the airport in what it calls an ''integrated'' solution to gridlock in the skies. The most tangible effect of this, according to consultants hired by area officials, is that air traffic would be layered, pushing some flights to lower altitudes to make space for other flights above.
 The New Jersey coalition has contacted officials in at least a dozen towns in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut that are believed to be among the most likely to feel the effects of new flight patterns. And as more information emerges about the plan's possible impact, more communities are indicating a willingness to consider legal action, Mr. Feder said. 
 Ten towns in the Pascack Valley region are also raising money for a legal fight, said Mayor Joe LaPaglia of Woodcliff Lake, which is one of the towns. And it is not just bucolic suburbs that are complaining; the city of Elizabeth is also considering filing suit, claiming the new noise plan would put more flights over residential areas. 
 How successful any legal challenge to the F.A.A. might be is uncertain. Last month, an attempt in the House of Representatives to block the plan by withholding federal financing was soundly defeated, 360 to 65. Several representatives from New Jersey, including Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, Scott Garrett and Steven R. Rothman, said they would try to bring up the amendment to withhold financing again.
 Opponents of the F.A.A.'s airspace redesign have questioned the agency's predictions that, among other things, it will eliminate some 12 million minutes of airline delays each year, for an average saving of six minutes for each late flight. Other studies have suggested that the savings would be negligible, especially if the airlines take advantage of the added efficiency by scheduling more flights.
 Recent statistics from the federal Department of Transportation showed that Newark, LaGuardia and Kennedy were the three most delay-prone among large airports in the country for the first half of 2007. The figures also showed that delays nationwide this summer had been the worst since the department started tracking them 13 years ago. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GRIDLOCKED A proposed plan by the F.A.A. has some residents considering lawsuits to safeguard their quiet communities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); NOISE POLLUTION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); MAYORS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



329 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Luxury, and How It Became Common

BYLINE: HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
WANT to buy luxury products like Louis Vuitton handbags? Gucci shoes? Prada dresses? There's no need to comb the fashion alleys of New York, Paris or Milan in search of the brands' boutique stores. Just zip over to the nearest mall, where high-end department stores hawk luggage, footwear, apparel, jewelry and virtually every other designer-label item that ever appeared under the klieg lights. 
 But be prepared to see scores of fellow shoppers already wearing the exact goods you covet. 
 Therein lies the cruel commercial irony at the core of ''Deluxe: How Luxury Lost Its Luster,'' by Dana Thomas, a Paris-based culture and fashion writer for Newsweek (Penguin Press, 375 pages, $27.95).
 Ms. Thomas documents in entertaining and sometimes heart-wrenching detail how the luxury industry evolved from a proudly diverse array of family-owned houses into a $157 billion-a-year mass market whose products now lack the exclusivity -- and in many cases the quality craftsmanship -- that formed the basis for their cachet in the first place.
 Along with changing the way we dress, the luxury industry ''has realigned our economic class system,'' Ms. Thomas asserts. ''It has changed the way we interact,'' she says. ''It has become part of our social fabric. To achieve this, it has sacrificed its integrity, undermined its products, tarnished its history and hoodwinked its consumers. In order to make luxury 'accessible,' tycoons have stripped away all that has made it special.''
 At first lip-blush, that might seem like merely an elitist complaint. Ms. Thomas shows, however, that the repercussions of ''democratizing'' luxury have had dire effects across the globe, and on almost every socio-economic level.
 The corporate quest to reduce operating costs, for example, often leads to the creation of sweatshops. Along the way come an array of related crimes ranging from fraudulent labeling and counterfeiting to embezzlement and even prostitution paid for with luxury goods in lieu of cash. 
 If the corporatization of luxury is new, the flaunting of wealth through acquisitions is not: It dates at least as far back as the ancient Greeks and Etruscans. The ancestry of modern extravagance traces to the Bourbons and the Bonapartes. (After France earned $15 million selling hundreds of millions of acres to the United States, Napoleon's wife, Josephine, spent half of the money on clothes in 10 years, Ms. Thomas reports.)
 Ms. Thomas argues that luxury not only indicates our tastes in fashion, it also defines our political, social, and economic standing and our self-worth. In America, the prevailing standards of taste and style were once set by new rich industrialists like the Vanderbilts, Carnegies, Morgans and Rockefellers.
 ''Luxury wasn't simply a product,'' Ms. Thomas writes. ''It denoted a history of tradition, superior quality, and often a pampered buying experience.
 ''Luxury was a natural and expected element of upper-class life, like belonging to the right clubs or having the right surname. And it was produced in small quantities -- often made to order -- for an extremely limited and truly elite clientele.''
 Enter the villains of Ms. Thomas' book, the 35 leading luxury brands that now control over 60 percent of the global market. The list includes Prada, Gucci, Giorgio Armani, Hermes and Chanel, all of which have revenue in excess of $1 billion a year. But the ''Mr. Big'' of the big luxury is LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, an $11 billion conglomerate whose labels also include Dior, Fendi and Berluti.
 Some of the best-written -- and most damning -- passages in ''Deluxe'' recount the rise of LVMH's chairman, Bernard Arnault, considered by his critics to be the Machiavelli of luxury industry finance. Ms. Thomas describes how Mr. Arnault forced out the founding Vuitton clan in a vicious battle fueled by accusations of espionage and public smear tactics.
 Citing startling statistics, Ms. Thomas describes how luxury empires like LVMH have spanned the globe. She reports, for example, that as of last year 40 percent of all Japanese people owned a product made by Vuitton, mainly from the monogram line.
 That follows from the fact that the Japanese now account for 40 percent of all luxury sales, more than Americans (17 percent) and Europeans (16 percent) combined. India has more than five million customers for luxury goods, and China, whose 200 million such consumers now account for 12 percent of sales, is expected to be the most important market in the world by 2010, according to Ms. Thomas. 
 She spots signs of a slowly building consumer backlash and a renaissance of independent luxury houses that offer traditional quality and personal service. Her most prominent examples are the family-owned Daslu shopping empire in Brazil, and the French shoe designer Christian Louboutin.
 ''I see these men who build luxury brands to make money and I am in the same industry but I feel nothing in common with them,'' Mr. Louboutin declares. ''Luxury is the possibility to stay close to your customers, and do things that you know they will love.'' He adds: ''Luxury is not consumerism.''
 In the meantime, corporate success in mass merchandising luxury has taken a heavy toll on both culture and language. As Ms. Thomas's book points out from title to final page, one of the most dire effects has been to turn the term itself into a kind of oxymoron. 
 After all, what's the real luxury in being a ''have'' if hordes of logo-loving former have-nots can own the same products? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FOOTWEAR (78%); COUNTERFEITING (74%); EMBEZZLEMENT (66%); CLASSICS (64%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (93%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (93%); LVMH (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (93%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



330 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2639 words

HEADLINE: Credit Time Bomb Ticked, but Few Heard

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and VIKAS BAJAJ; Jenny Anderson, Eric Dash and Gretchen Morgenson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
All through last year, Jim Melcher saw the signs of a rapidly deteriorating American housing market -- riskier mortgages, rising delinquencies and more homes falling into foreclosure. And with $100 million in assets at his hedge fund, Balestra Capital, he was in a position to do something about it.
 So in October, as mortgage-backed bonds were still flying high, he bet $10 million that these bonds would plunge in value, using complex derivatives available to any institutional investor. As his gamble began to pay off in the first months of 2007, Mr. Melcher, a money manager based in New York, plowed the profits into ever bigger wagers that the mortgage crisis would worsen further, eventually risking some $60 million of the fund's money.
 ''We saw the opportunity of a lifetime, and since then events have unfolded on schedule,'' he said. Mr. Melcher's flagship fund has since doubled in value, even as this summer's market turmoil cost other investors billions, forced the closing of several major hedge funds and pushed the stock market down 7 percent since mid-July. This week, Mr. Melcher is heading to Paris for a vacation with his wife. 
 The extent of the turmoil has stunned much of Wall Street, but as Mr. Melcher's case makes clear, there were ample warning signs that a financial time bomb in the form of subprime mortgages was ticking quietly for months, if not years.
 As far back as 2001, advocates for low-income homeowners had argued that mortgage providers were making loans to borrowers without regard to their ability to repay. Many could not even scrape together the money for a down payment and were being approved with little or no documentation of their income or assets. 
 In December, the first subprime lenders started failing as more borrowers began falling behind on payments, often shortly after they received the loans. And in February, HSBC, the large British bank, set aside $1.76 billion because of problems in its American subprime lending business. 
 Over the last two weeks, this slowly building wave became a tsunami in the global financial markets.
 On Friday, the Federal Reserve was forced into a surprise cut of the discount rate it charges banks to borrow money, a move that steadied shaky stock and credit markets and reassured investors, bankers and traders who were reeling from a month of market turmoil. And for the first time, the Fed bluntly acknowledged that the credit crisis posed a threat to economic growth.
 ''Until recently, there was a lot of denial, but this is a big deal,'' said Byron R. Wien, a 40-year veteran of Wall Street who is now chief investment strategist at Pequot Capital. ''Now the big question is: Will this spill over into the broader economy?''
 The answer to that question will be revealed over the coming months. But the cast of characters who missed signals like the rise of delinquencies and foreclosures is becoming easier to identify. They include investment banks happy to sell risky but lucrative mortgage debt to hedge funds hungry for high interest payments, bond rating agencies willing to hope for the best in the housing market and provide sterling credit appraisals to debt issuers, and subprime mortgage brokers addicted to high sales volumes.
 What is more, some of these players now find themselves in a dual role as both enabler and victim, like the legions of individual borrowers who were convinced that their homes could only keep rising in value and were confident that they could afford to stretch for the biggest mortgage possible.
 ''All of the old-timers knew that subprime mortgages were what we called neutron loans -- they killed the people and left the houses,'' said Louis S. Barnes, 58, a partner at Boulder West, a mortgage banking firm in Lafayette, Colo. ''The deals made in 2005 and 2006 were going to run into trouble because the credit pendulum at the time was stuck at easy.''
 Oddly, the credit analysts at brokerage firms now being pummeled were among the Cassandras whose warnings were not heeded. ''I'm one guy in a research department, but many people in our mortgage team have been suggesting that there was froth within the market,'' said Jack Malvey, the chief global fixed income strategist for Lehman Brothers. ''This has really been progressing for quite some time.''
 Others on Wall Street echoed Mr. Malvey's stance. ''We've contended for a while that there was an issue in subprime debt,'' said Neal Shear, global head of trading at Morgan Stanley. ''A year ago, we were aware that delinquencies were going to rise.''
 A Ripple Expands
 So why did many of the smartest minds on Wall Street somehow miss the signposts that these insiders now claim to have seen coming?
 Few professionals on the losing end of these trades are willing to talk publicly about how what started out as a crisis in an obscure corner of the credit market -- subprime debt, for borrowers with weak credit -- managed to infect stocks and bonds. For example, officials at Goldman Sachs, Wall Street's most dominant firm, have provided little detail into how one of their hedge funds lost 30 percent of its value in just weeks.
 But the precipitous fall in the value of mortgage-backed bonds was spurred by a mad rush by so many holders to dump them simultaneously. That is because they might not have understood what they were buying in the first place, instead focusing only on the bonds' higher yields. Unlike Mr. Melcher, they had not considered the circumstances under which the risky mortgages they essentially owned had been granted.
 ''Buyers didn't fully understand what they were getting,'' said Rajiv Sobti, a portfolio manager at Proxima Alfa Investments, a New York hedge fund. In Wall Street parlance, Mr. Sobti added, ''They were sold, not bought. The actual buyers were often not mortgage specialists, but generalists who looked at these bonds as a way of earning higher yields.'' 
 Once the mortgage-backed bonds finally started plunging for the very reasons Mr. Melcher spotted long before, the dominoes moved swiftly. Hedge funds and other holders of this risky debt also began to sell more solid investments like corporate bonds and even stocks in an effort to raise money. These hedge funds, in turn, were under pressure from their own backers to return their investments. The same was true for the Wall Street brokerage houses that had provided them with credit.
 The blame game is already beginning. The spotlight will focus first on rating agencies like Moody's and Standard & Poor's, because the mortgage-backed bonds that plunged in value in recent weeks were highly rated by these agencies until they downgraded billions worth of them in July.
 A Toll on the Economy
 Other companies face far more immediate problems. Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest independent mortgage lender, found itself fending off reports this month that bankruptcy could be looming as its stock plunged 41 percent.
 Yet as recently as March, Angelo R. Mozilo, the chief executive of Countrywide, appeared on CNBC and proclaimed that worries about the subprime sector were ''clearly an overreaction.'' He promised that ''this will be great for Countrywide at the end of the day, because all the irrational competitors will be gone.''
 Along with chief executives like Mr. Mozilo, central bankers also apparently failed to anticipate the threat posed by subprime debt. In a May 17 speech in Chicago, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, acknowledged the ''recent sharp increases in subprime mortgage loan delinquencies.''
 But he said, ''we do not expect significant spillovers from the subprime market to the rest of the economy or to the financial system.''
 That same month, a former Federal Reserve governor, Edward M. Gramlich, was preparing to publish a book titled, ''Subprime Mortgages: America's Latest Boom and Bust.'' Even earlier, in April, the usually bullish National Association of Realtors said that home prices across the country would decline in 2007 because of the widening fallout from subprime loans. And in March, the head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a banking regulator, had urged Congress to create standards to protect borrowers with poor credit.
 Federal regulators did eventually tighten lending standards on June 29, but by then the meltdown on Wall Street was already in progress. Exactly one week earlier, Bear Stearns disclosed that two hedge funds specializing in subprime debt run by its asset management arm were facing a sudden wave of withdrawals by investors, the hedge-fund equivalent of a run on the bank.
 ''This was the match that lit a very dry field of risk on fire,'' Mr. Malvey said. When he first heard the news coming out of Bear Stearns, Mr. Malvey recalled, he was busy writing his weekly report to clients in his corner office on the 15th floor of Lehman's Midtown Manhattan headquarters. Now it seemed as if the broader market was catching up to what Mr. Malvey and his team had been talking about all along.
 Bear Stearns' failure to sense the early tremors was especially glaring. In 2006, it was rated as the best risk manager among United States brokerage firms in 2006 by Euromoney, a respected trade publication. Unlike other firms, though, Bear's problems eventually claimed a high-profile casualty -- in early August, the brokerage firm's co-president and heir apparent, Warren J. Spector, was forced to resign.
 The company has emphasized that in spite of the damage to its reputation, its actual financial losses were relatively small.
 Within weeks after the Bear Stearns disclosure, the action shifted to the rating agencies. On July 10, Standard & Poor's announced it was downgrading $7.3 billion worth of securities sold in late 2005 and 2006, and the ensuing conference call quickly turned testy. Steven Eisman, a portfolio manager at Front Point Partners, an investment firm that had made a major bet against the subprime mortgage market, did not mince words.
 ''I'd like to know why now?'' Mr. Eisman demanded to know. ''Why didn't you do this many, many months ago?''
 Regulatory Scrutiny
 The European Union says it plans to examine the agencies' role in the debacle and investigate possible conflicts of interest between the agencies and the issuers of mortgage bonds.
 In Washington, Representative Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, is planning hearings in October that will also examine this issue. ''The fact is the rating agencies didn't do a very good job,'' Mr. Frank said. ''They had no way of knowing whether some of the loans were imprudently granted.''
 In a written statement, Chris Atkins, a spokesman for Standard & Poor's, said that for 18 months leading up to July 10 the company had been adjusting its assumptions about the housing market, downgrading selected bonds and publicly highlighting potential problems. Even in light of the crisis, S.& P. expects that only the riskiest mortgage bonds could default and that holders of securities with its top AAA rating will continue to receive interest and principal payments.
 ''Our concerns and actions have coincided with the worst housing recession in recent history set against a backdrop of loosened lending practices,'' Mr. Atkins said. Still, Mr. Atkins seemed to acknowledge that his company was also caught by surprise.
 ''The market continues to deteriorate, with the level of loss continuing to exceed historical precedents and our initial expectations,'' he said.
 Some mortgage executives take a different view. Larry A. Goldstone, president of Thornburg Mortgage, said the trajectory of the current crisis in subprime closely resembled the arc of past mortgage crunches. Thornburg is not a subprime issuer, but like Countrywide it was also hit with rumors that it could go under last week.
 ''I've been in this business since 1983, and this is the fourth time we've had this in subprime,'' said Mr. Goldstone, ticking off similar squeezes in 1987, 1993 and 1998. Maybe so, but what is different now is how much bigger the subprime market is than in the past, totaling $600 billion last year, up from $120 billion in 2001, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade journal.
 To make matters worse, all borrowers are now likely to face higher borrowing costs for years to come, even those with stellar credit histories. Already, mortgages of more than $417,000, known as jumbos, carry interest rates of 7.5 percent to 8 percent, up from 6.5 percent last month.
 ''It's going to come down a little, but it won't go back to 6.5 percent,'' Mr. Goldstone said. He also predicts the rate of about 6.25 percent on smaller government-backed mortgages will probably rise to 7 percent. That may not sound like much, but for a homebuyer borrowing $400,000, the higher rate means $200 more in monthly payments.
 There are signs that this added burden is already having an effect on the economy. Last week, the nation's two largest retailers -- Wal-Mart and Home Depot -- stoked those fears when they reported disappointing earnings and warned that consumer spending was slowing as a result of the weakness in the housing sector. New car purchases have also been slipping, and earlier this month General Motors and Ford lowered their sales forecasts for 2007.
 Although Mr. Malvey believes the short-term turmoil in the stock and bond markets will subside by the fall, he said the added financial strain on homebuyers increases the odds of a recession in 2008 or 2009. That, in turn, makes it more likely that the Federal Reserve will announce a cut in its benchmark rate when it next meets on Sept. 18, Mr. Malvey said.
 And while the Fed's rate cut on Friday will help stabilize the overall credit and equity markets in the near term, it will take months for the benefits to filter down to individual borrowers.
 ''This will have no effect on local market conditions,'' Mr. Barnes said. ''While smaller government-backed loans and mortgages for extremely high-quality borrowers are available, everything else is very hard to get it.'' As for no-money-down loans, he said, rates now stand at 10 percent, in the unlikely event that they can be found.
 In the coming months, foreclosures are expected to keep mounting.
 What is more, the interest rates on the subprime mortgages offered to homebuyers in 2005 and 2006, when credit standards were at their most lax, will soon begin to rise, forcing up monthly payments for the weakest borrowers practically overnight. As a result, Mr. Goldstone predicts that banks and other lenders could eventually see losses reach into the tens of billions.
 Homebuyers Affected
 Now, some would-be buyers like Matthew Hennig are having to put off their dream of homeownership. In early July, Mr. Hennig, an air-conditioner repairman, signed the contract to buy his ideal home, a two-bedroom condo overlooking a swimming pool in a Phoenix suburb.
 A day later, however, as he was on the job in a sweltering attic, his loan officer at Fairway Independent Mortgage called to tell him that the $185,000, no-money-down loan Mr. Hennig thought was a sure thing had been denied. Why? He was a first-time buyer with little credit history.
 Unlike the professionals on the trading floors of Wall Street who lost billions and now seem shell-shocked, Mr. Hennig has moved on. Mr. Hennig, who earns about $40,000 a year, is now renting a room from a friend and saving up the money for a down payment when he tries to buy again in a year or so. He has also recently opened a charge-card account to bolster his credit score.
 If Mr. Hennig does eventually get a mortgage, however, his monthly payment could well be higher, because of the same factors Mr. Melcher first noticed long ago. ''This is the first time I have ever tried to buy anything,'' he said. ''It is just my luck.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matthew Hennig was turned down for a $185,000 mortgage recently after he signed a contract. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF TOPPING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: TOP SUBPRIME LENDERS, BEFORE THE BUST: Many of the lenders that did the most subprime lending have either gone out of business or scaled back. (Source: Inside Mortgage Finance) Chart showing the top subprime lenders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



331 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; NOISE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Next Step for Rerouting Planes May Be in Court

BYLINE: By BARBARA S. PETERSON

 BODY:
AFTER nearly nine years of study and more than a hundred public meetings, Federal Aviation Administration officials say they are weeks away from issuing a final decision on how to reroute airline flights over the region to ease bottlenecks in the sky. Communities that fear a sharp increase in the number of flights rumbling overhead are now turning to what they say is their only chance to stave off noise pollution: the courts.
 ''A lawsuit is a near certainty,'' said Jerome Feder of the New Jersey Coalition Against Aircraft Noise, based in Scotch Plains. ''There are so many legal bases to litigate on, and I believe we can defeat it.'' 
 Mr. Feder said that opponents would argue that the F.A.A. had ignored environmental and economic considerations when it rejected alternative proposals that would have sent more planes over the ocean or above nonresidential areas like industrial plants.
 What prompted alarm among many officials in the area was the release early this month of the F.A.A.'s final environmental impact study on its proposals for carving out new routes in the sky. Not only did that trigger a 30-day countdown for the agency to release its final routing plan, now expected shortly after Labor Day, but it also provided fresh details on the F.A.A.'s intentions. 
 The F.A.A. has not commented on the final scope of the plan but has maintained that any increase in noise would be minimal. ''Nothing is going to happen immediately,'' said Jim Peters, a spokesman for the agency, who pointed out that retraining air traffic controllers to put the changes in place is likely to take several months.
 It is widely expected, however, that the F.A.A. will spread flights out over a wider area, fanning departures in what it calls an ''integrated'' solution to gridlock in the skies. The most tangible effect, according to consultants hired by area officials, is that air traffic would be layered, pushing some flights to lower altitudes to make space for other flights above.
 It is those additional flight corridors that are at issue, since some would put aircraft noise over areas that either aren't accustomed to it or have reached their limit of tolerance, said Judy Neville, the first selectwoman of New Canaan, a longtime opponent of the F.A.A.'s rerouting attempts. 
 The agency's plan would put an additional 150 flights over New Canaan, some at altitudes of 4,000 feet or lower, producing far higher decibel levels, Ms. Neville said. The towns of Wilton and Weston could also be affected, she added. ''This is far worse than we imagined,'' she said.
 The Coalition Against Aircraft Noise has contacted Ms. Neville and officials in at least a dozen towns in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut that are believed to be among the most likely to feel the effects of new flight patterns. As more information emerges about the plan's possible impact, more communities are indicating a willingness to consider legal action, Mr. Feder said. 
 This month, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Nita M. Lowey of Westchester County, N.Y., wrote to the F.A.A. administrator, Marion C. Blakey, asking for a delay, and also complaining about the lack of timely information. ''The first major overhaul of airspace in almost 50 years warrants a fair and extensive public notification process,'' they wrote. 
 The F.A.A. has not formally responded to the legislators, Mr. Peters said, but he added, ''There will be no more meetings.'' 
 How successful any legal challenge to the F.A.A. might be is uncertain. Last month, an attempt in the House of Representatives to block the plan by withholding federal financing was soundly defeated, 360 to 65. The vote came during consideration of the F.A.A.'s overall 2008 budget; several representatives from the region, including Ms. Lowey, Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut, and Representatives Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, Scott Garrett and Steven R. Rothman of New Jersey, said they would try to bring up the amendment to withhold financing again.
 Ms. Neville, of New Canaan, said she was disappointed by the setback in Congress but understood that many lawmakers were more concerned about rising airport delays than about some districts' noise problems. ''The rest of the country hears that this will reduce delays and they are understandably ecstatic,'' she said.
 But she added that the consultants hired by Fairfield County and others have questioned the agency's predictions that, among other things, the airspace redesign would eliminate some 12 million minutes of airline delays each year, for an average saving of six minutes for each late flight. Other studies have suggested that the savings would be negligible, especially if the airlines take advantage of the added efficiency by scheduling more flights.
 Recent statistics from the federal Department of Transportation showed that Newark, LaGuardia and Kennedy were the most delay-prone among the large airports in the country for the first half of 2007. The figures also showed that delays nationwide this summer had been the worst since the department started tracking them 13 years ago. 
 For those who must travel for business or who work in the industry, the economic and psychic benefits of reducing airport delays often compete with their desire to reduce airplane noise at home.
 John Owen, a former airline industry executive who lives in Fairfield County under the approach pattern to White Plains Airport, is familiar with the paradox. ''Everybody wants to fly out of the convenient airport, but nobody wants to hear the noise,'' he said. ''You can't have both.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FLIGHT ALERT Judy Neville, New Canaan's first selectwoman, says the F.A.A.'s proposed plan to ease gridlock is ''far worse than we imagined.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT MULLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); NOISE POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); LITIGATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



332 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: A Chinese Century? Maybe It's the Next One

BYLINE: By LESTER THUROW. 
Lester Thurow is a professor of management and economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is also on the board of Taiwan Semiconductor, which does business in mainland China.

 BODY:
CHINA claims that its economy is growing at 10 to 11 percent a year, and China's official analysts say that their nation will catch up with the United States long before the 22nd century arrives. Don't believe it. 
 First, let's deal with the implausibility of the official Chinese statistics. Mathematically, if the overall economy were to grow 10 percent annually, and the 70 percent of the economy that is based in rural areas were not growing (as stated by the Chinese government), the economy in China's cities would have to be growing by 33 percent a year. The urban economy is growing rapidly, but not at a 33 percent pace. 
 Furthermore, Chinese statistics conflict with those of Hong Kong, the semiautonomous territory that serves as the financial capital of much of southern China. In 2001, Hong Kong had a recession, which is to say that it reported that its gross domestic product fell. Guangdong, the adjacent Chinese province, has a population of around 200 million. In 2001, it reported that its G.D.P. grew by 10 percent. What are the chances that both of those numbers are correct? Very slim. 
 Economic growth rates can be inferred from electricity consumption. In every country in the world, electricity use has generally grown faster than the G.D.P. Electricity is necessary for nearly all productive activities, and because of inefficiencies, consumption of electricity has generally outstripped economic growth. Rising energy costs have resulted in more efficient use of electricity, but especially in the developing world, economic growth has still generally lagged growth in electricity.
 But if China's official numbers are to be believed, there are provinces in China where the G.D.P. has been growing faster than energy use. That is unlikely, since the central government's statistics also say that energy use per unit of G.D.P. is going up -- not down, as claimed in provincial G.D.P. statistics.
 Among the world's 12 most rapidly growing economies over the last 10 years, the G.D.P. has grown only 45 percent as fast as electricity consumption. In the early 1970s, Japan was shutting down its electricity-guzzling aluminum industry. During this period, the G.D.P. grew 60 percent as fast as electricity consumption, the highest recorded level among industrialized nations.
 Using those numbers as a guide, if we consider China's actual electrical use, which is relatively easy to measure, and do a little math, we come up with this estimate: The G.D.P. in China has been growing somewhere between 4.5 percent (using the average for a rapidly growing country) to 6 percent a year (using the highest rate for Japan), not at the 10 percent rate claimed in official statistics. 
 The official statistic for China's overall growth rate is best regarded as an approximate growth rate of the economy of its cities. 
 China also officially claims that it will catch up with the United States and become the world's largest economy well before the 22nd century arrives. 
 There is an equally simple reason that neither of these predictions is likely to be realized. It simply takes more than 100 years for a large, less economically developed country to catch up with the world leader in per capita income. One need look only at the history of the United States, which had a much higher growth rate than Britain in the 19th century, yet did not catch up until World War I. Or consider Japan and the United States. Some 150 years after Japan started to modernize during the Meiji restoration, the country's per capita G.D.P. is still only 80 percent of that of the United States in terms of purchasing power parity -- although, in nominal terms, it has caught up. 
 The United States is not standing still. In fact, its per capita income grew faster than nearly all other big countries from 1990 to 2007. Europe's per capita income fell from 85 percent of that of the United States in 1990 to 66 percent in 2007, according to International Monetary Fund statistics.
 So let's say that the inflation-adjusted growth rate for China is 4 percent a year. This is optimistic, because China will certainly have some bad years in the next century. Every country does -- remember the Great Depression in the United States. A 4 percent rate is faster than any big country has ever grown for 100 years. But assume that China can do it. Assume, too, that America grows at the 3 percent rate it has averaged for the last 15 years.
 Now project the two growth rates forward: the inflation-adjusted per-capita G.D.P. of China would be less than $40,000 in 2100, versus almost $650,000 in the United States. That's because China starts at $1,000 per capita and the United States at $43,000. If, in 2100, China has four times as many people as the United States, as it does now, China would still not have a total G.D.P. equal to America's. 
 But it is unlikely to have four times as many people. It is always a mistake to project population growth rates for a century, but let's do it anyway: With a one-child policy and a sex ratio that favors boys (many men won't find wives) -- China should experience a decline in population in the 21st century. Yet let's assume for a moment that China's population remains constant, at 1.3 billion. If immigration to the United States continued at the current rate, America's population would rise. If the population grew at 1 percent a year, as it has recently, it would more than double by 2100, reducing the enormous population gap between the two countries. Are these projections likely to be realized? Who knows? 
 What is clear is that China is unlikely to surpass the United States in G.D.P. in absolute or relative terms anytime soon. 
 There may be a Chinese century, but it will be the 22nd century -- not the 21st. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (79%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



333 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE HUNT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Companionship, and a Good Deal

BYLINE: By JOYCE COHEN. 
E-mail: thehunt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IF two can live more cheaply than one, then three can live more cheaply than two. Or at least more grandly.
 So Joseph Baker and Leslie Taufner, who were already roommates in a railroad flat in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, teamed up with their friend Sebastian Mei, who was squeezed into a pricey East Village one-bedroom, to avail themselves of economies of scale. All could downgrade their expenses and upgrade their quality of life, assuming they were able to land the right kind of three-bedroom place.
 Each of the three, who are from suburban Milwaukee, had been in New York for around two years. Mr. Baker, 26, and Ms. Taufner, 32, are high school Spanish teachers who met during an orientation for the New York City Teaching Fellows. They were roommates on Dean Street, each paying $730 a month. ''Normally, that kind of layout would not work for two people in their 20s and 30s, but it worked for us,'' said Mr. Baker, who slept in the windowless middle room. ''It takes a lot to annoy me.''
 Still, Ms. Taufner felt bad that she had to traipse through his bedroom every time she entered or exited hers. 
 Mr. Mei, 32, wanted out of the tiny $2,000-a-month one-bedroom he had taken in desperation when he was transferred to New York from Chicago to be office manager for The Onion, the satirical newspaper. His housing situation, he said, ''was the biggest step backward I had ever taken in my life.'' 
 So in late spring the trio began hunting for a three-bedroom rental in Brooklyn. They aimed to spend no more than $3,000 a month, which would be split unevenly. 
 Mr. Mei would pay substantially more than the others, though less than his East Village rent, because he would get the master bedroom and his friends would help care for his dog, Thorton.
 Ms. Taufner felt it was her turn to take the worst bedroom, because Mr. Baker had been so obliging for two years.
 ''We started thinking this is going to be fun, and it turned into one of the most miserable experiences I have ever been through,'' Ms. Taufner said. 
 They began in Carroll Gardens, where a $2,800 apartment had three sizable bedrooms but a tiny living room. They couldn't possibly fit everyone, along with Ms. Taufner's array of plants.
 Besides, the three friends wanted a living room where they could relax together and have friends over. ''Teaching in public school is a hard job,'' Mr. Baker said, ''so we need to let go of the anxiety of the day.'' 
 A 1,700-square-foot three-bedroom for rent in a small condominium building in Clinton Hill was everything they wanted. It had two bathrooms, two balconies and ''a ridiculous amount of space not only by New York standards but even by our Midwestern standards,'' Mr. Baker said. But, at $3,200 plus a broker's fee of $5,760, it was out of range. 
 ''Everything paled in comparison with this apartment,'' Mr. Baker said. ''It was a curse seeing it in the beginning.''
 Because it was early in the hunt, they assumed they would find something else. They didn't.
 The next day, they saw another three-bedroom in the same building for $2,500. But two of the bedrooms had no light. They were quick to say no, but not to leave. That's because Mr. Baker struck up a conversation with one of the outgoing tenants, Sam Bennett, a graduate of the nearby Pratt Institute, who was moving to East Harlem.
 ''I was horribly distracted,'' said Mr. Baker, who was busy exchanging phone numbers and making social plans with Mr. Bennett.
 The trio turned down fifth-floor walk-ups and dungeonlike basements. In one Fourth Avenue apartment, the third bedroom was being carved out of the living room, which left the living room as a wide hallway.
 Nearly two weeks after they visited the Clinton Hill three-bedroom, they saw it relisted by a different brokerage firm, this time with no fee. They were now willing to pay $3,200 in rent. They wondered why it remained on the market -- its inconvenient location on the G train? The housing project a block away? The noninclusion of heat?
 With hope renewed, they applied to rent it. The original agent found out, and the new agent said they would be responsible for the original fee.
 Ms. Taufner was livid. ''It was the broker's fee that put us over the edge,'' she said. ''This whole broker thing feels like the biggest scam. I basically had a complete meltdown. For the first time in two years living in New York, I said, 'O.K., I get it.' People say this is a really hard and really expensive city to live in, and I know why they say that now. I was ready to move back to Milwaukee. I am from the Midwest and know how easy life can be, and I don't want to do this anymore.''
 After receiving the bad news, she left school to meet Mr. Baker at a bar. Mr. Mei showed up, too. ''Is this an intervention?'' she asked them.
 Eventually, Ms. Taufner ''recentered herself and realized everything was going to be fine,'' Mr. Baker said.
 Mr. Mei negotiated for the apartment. He received conflicting stories: There was a fee; there was no fee. The required security deposit was one month's rent; no, make that two months' rent.
 Mr. Baker checked city tax records online, planning to contact the unit's owner directly. ''We were ready to knock on his door on our knees, cash in hand, asking for the keys,'' he said. 
 Finally, after several conversations with the brokerage firm, they were told they could rent the apartment with no fee.
 In the end, they signed a two-year lease for $3,200 a month, leaving two months' security deposit plus a $1,000 dog deposit. The outlay was more than $10,000.
 Mr. Baker borrowed money from his parents, which is ''humiliating when you finally have a 'real' job,'' he said. Ms. Taufner used a line of credit. Mr. Mei drew on his savings. 
 Now, Mr. Mei pays $1,450 for the master bedroom with its own bathroom and walk-in closet. Mr. Baker and Ms. Taufner pay $875 each, more than they had intended. 
 ''Financially it is a bit of a stretch,'' Ms. Taufner said, ''but I am willing to figure that out. It is interesting how you can go from the depths of frustration and anger to having some hope and thinking about things differently. I feel so lucky to have stuck it out.''
 Her plants fill the apartment. Thorton has room to run and much more attention. The three friends gather after work, drinking wine outdoors. ''It's mind-blowing how cool it is,'' Mr. Mei said. ''Everyone has gotten something great out of the deal, but Joe gets the prize.'' 
 That would be Mr. Bennett, the building's departing tenant and now Mr. Baker's boyfriend. Though his new Harlem home is an hour away by subway, ''he's a regular visitor to his old building,'' Mr. Baker said.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 2007

 CORRECTION:
Two photographs with the continuation of the Hunt article last Sunday, about three people from suburban Milwaukee who ultimately found an apartment together in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, were reversed. The picture on the far left showed the building on Fourth Avenue described in the adjacent caption, and the second picture from the left showed the building on Court Street described in the leftmost caption.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LIVING GRANDLY Sebastian Mei, left, Leslie Taufner and Joe Baker found that three could live better than two. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE1)
A three-bedroom on Court Street had little living room space.
A third bedroom on Fourth Avenue was carved out of the living room.
A three-bedroom in a Clifton Place condo was roomy inside and out.
 Sebastian Mei, left, Leslie Taufner and Joe Baker in their new home. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



334 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2969 words

HEADLINE: His Kind of Town

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL. 
Alex Witchel is a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Even in a town as enamored of hyperbole as this one, it is probably true, as his agent likes to say, that at 91 Horton Foote is the oldest living screenwriter in Hollywood. Or at least the oldest living screenwriter still working. Which is why, as I watched him recently during an hourlong script meeting with the producer Thom Mount, I grew more and more anxious on his behalf. Mount, a former president of Universal Pictures who also produced the movie ''Bull Durham,'' among others, was going through the latest draft of Foote's original screenplay, set in Durham, N.C., Mount's hometown, giving him detailed notes. Foote listened and nodded, listened and nodded, until I could stand it no longer.
 ''Aren't you going to write it down?'' I chided him. ''How will you remember?''
 Foote, whom I first interviewed in 1995, blinked at the interruption while remaining unfailingly polite. ''I'll remember,'' he said evenly. ''This script has been my companion for a long time now. It speaks to me. It tells me, 'Behave yourself, Horton.' '' 
 Mount laughed. ''Horton remembers everything,'' he said. ''He'll call me the day before a meeting just to chat, but it's really to see if I read the material and will I be ready to talk about it. When we went to Durham together, the downtown was empty. We didn't see a car, a person or a light in the window for five blocks. But four or five hours later, Horton has his yellow pad out, and he's writing like a madman. We're in the Marriott, and he's commandeered a busboy, who he's interviewing. The next thing is he's best friends with the mayor. When we left, three days later, he handed me 42 handwritten pages. So let's say stamina is one of Horton's long suits.''
 Let's say it is. Though Foote has worked in film often during his 66 years as a writer -- in 1962 he won an Oscar for best screenplay adaptation for ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' and another in 1983 for best original screenplay for ''Tender Mercies'' -- he is primarily a playwright. His first play, ''Texas Town,'' was produced Off Broadway in 1941 and established the fictional small town of Harrison, where the majority of his next 60 plays were set. Foote writes in the vein of Chekhov -- nothing seems to happen as everything happens. The theme that obsesses him is the myth of home, a safe place that exists only as a wish or an idealized memory. As Ben Brantley once wrote in The Times, ''Mr. Foote is a master of the distinctive art of balancing everyday domestic clutter over a pit of existential darkness.'' 
 What is remarkable about Foote's career is its longevity. ''A playwright's career is usually 10 to 15 good years, even Tennessee Williams,'' noted Ron Bernstein, Foote's film agent. ''It's a specific period of time, like opera singers. But Horton gets better and better.'' While Foote has always been a shrewd chronicler of the human condition with a reporter's eye for detail, the secret to his success is that his courtly, soft-spoken manner never fails to distract people from the fact that he sees right through them. In 1995, at 79, he won the Pulitzer Prize for ''The Young Man From Atlanta,'' and in 1998 he was elected to membership in the American Academy of Arts and Letters, receiving its Gold Medal for Drama for his entire body of work. In 2000, President Bill Clinton gave him the National Medal of Arts Award. 
 Next month, Foote's play ''Dividing the Estate'' will have its New York premiere at the Off Broadway Primary Stages. A bitterly funny look at a Texas family that thinks it is worth a fortune, it stars Elizabeth Ashley and Gerald McRaney. Next winter, the Goodman Theater in Chicago will stage a Horton Foote festival, including new productions of three of his plays, film screenings, panel discussions and a revival of last year's critically acclaimed Signature Theater production of ''The Trip to Bountiful,'' starring Lois Smith.
 When Foote is not busy being a great American artist, he is still drawn to show business. Along with Paddy Chayefsky and Rod Serling, he was one of the top writers in the golden age of live television. ''The Trip to Bountiful,'' which was made into a movie in 1985, for which Geraldine Page won the Oscar for Best Actress, began as a teleplay in 1953 starring Lillian Gish, who later appeared in it on Broadway. 
 Besides the script for Mount, Foote has written ''The Great Debaters,'' which is in production now. It is based on a true story about a championship debate team from an all-black college in Marshall, Tex., in the 1930s, that ultimately challenges a white college and wins. Directed by Denzel Washington, who also stars, it is being co-produced by Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Films. Foote met with surviving members of the debate team and was enchanted by them. Then, in true Hollywood fashion, he became one of four writers who turned out a script, a first for him. And a last. ''That was very painful,'' he told me. ''I fell in love with those people.''
 His experience with Mount is more typical. Foote handed him a rewrite of a final draft -- the story focuses on five characters in Durham who get caught up in a scheme to rejuvenate the town's economy by housing nuclear waste -- and watched as the producer pored over the pages. The night before, Foote jolted awake at 1:30 a.m., having solved the problematic ending that had plagued him the last three months.
 ''Lovely,'' Mount said, clearly moved. ''Works. It's great.''
 Foote, whose eyes never left Mount's face the entire time he was reading, sat back, radiant. Age aside, there's nothing better than getting it right. 
 For the last two years, Foote has been living full time in Pacific Palisades with his daughter, the actress and producer Hallie Foote, and her husband, the actor and writer Devon Abner. The three live in the bottom half of a two-story Spanish mission house off Sunset Boulevard. Foote rented an apartment in Manhattan for 18 years, but when the rent surpassed $5,000 per month, he cried uncle. He still owns the house in Wharton, Tex., where he grew up, and another next door. (Wharton is the real-life equivalent of Harrison.) Foote now finds himself in the painful position of having outlived everyone he knew there. 
 When he greeted me, on a sunny California afternoon last month, he was in the pink. Having spent his life avoiding exercise, he has, at Hallie's urging, taken up Iyengar yoga four days a week. He has also been Nordic walking, or trekking, using poles for balance.
 Foote sat at his desk, looking sporty in navy pants, a navy crewneck sweater and a striped shirt. We talked for almost three hours as he sipped a Coke, and whenever I asked if he'd like to take a break, he'd say, ''No, ma'am.''
 Naturally, we started with Texas.
 ''I just came from there,'' he said. ''I had the houses painted and wanted to see what they looked like. I would go more often, but the children won't let me travel by myself. They also don't like me living by myself.'' His tone was matter-of-fact. ''But I must say I don't mind having companions,'' he went on. ''I would go to Wharton more often, but my other children are in New York.'' (Daisy Foote is also a playwright; Horton Foote Jr. owns two restaurants in New York City; Walter Foote is a lawyer and the father of Foote's two grandchildren.)
 ''Psychologically,'' Foote continued, ''the town that I knew has disappeared. You hit 90, and you've outlived almost everybody. It's very curious. But for me, it's always been recharging the battery to go back there.''
 Well, besides being curious, isn't it scary being the last person left? 
 He shook his head. ''At 90, you're reminded over and over that it's not for long. But I've made my peace with that. I don't know what dying would be like, and I don't waste any time thinking about it. Writing is the thing that props me up. I worked all night last night on the screenplay. I've never been to Durham but once. I looked around there and saw these tobacco warehouses, enormous and abandoned. It was like a ghost town to me. And whatever starts a play, or an idea of a play, began.''
 That makes sense. But how did he get involved in ''The Great Debaters''?
 ''I was quite taken with Denzel,'' he said. ''He had found some students who had been in the college, and he brought me down to Texas for three days. He had about six people, all in their 80s, and their stories were so moving.'' 
 Then Foote's agent told him the final script would combine pieces of all the versions that had been written. ''I'm not putting anybody down who can do that, because some people are wonderful at it,'' Foote said. ''But it just didn't interest me. I know Lori Parks, for instance,'' he said, referring to the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Suzan-Lori Parks, another writer on the script. ''I kept looking for Lori Parks'' -- on the page -- ''but I didn't see her.'' He shrugged. ''I really did it as a tribute to Denzel. And those people I wrote about were my people. Our colors are different, but I grew up with them.''
 This kind of Hollywood experience is why people write plays -- playwrights own their own copyrights. Foote is writing a new play, though he put it aside for the Durham script. ''The play has not gone as easily as I had hoped,'' he said, ''but that sometimes happens. You just have to be patient because, it's a funny thing, it's not going to let you push it around.''
 Is it true, as I have read, that he has let three of his plays go unproduced so that he wouldn't upset the people they are about? After all, he just said everyone he knew was dead.
 ''Yes, but their children are not,'' he replied.
 Talk about manners. Wharton is still so vital for him, you wonder why he left it in the first place, though he did always yearn to be an actor. He spent seven years scraping by as one in New York in the 1930s, until Agnes de Mille heard his stories about home in an improv class and encouraged him to write about it.
 ''There were a thousand things about Wharton I didn't like,'' Foote said. ''I guess I got lonely there. People weren't interested in the things I was interested in.'' He also fell in love with New York, working with Martha Graham, among others, before he and his wife, Lillian Vallish Foote, moved to Washington for five years to run their own theater. They eventually relocated to New Hampshire before returning to New York. At her death in 1992, they had been married 47 years.
 ''I realized that the New Hampshire world, because I was near a small town, was as complex as Wharton in its own way,'' Foote said. ''But I never could write about it. I don't know why, and I used to be ashamed of that, but I'm just not in control of it. My home's in Wharton. I just have to say that because it won't let me go. I will never write about Pacific Palisades. Well, I shouldn't say that, because I didn't think I would ever write about a warehouse in Durham.
 ''This lead character in the Durham screenplay is someone I've gotten very fond of,'' he went on. ''He's become as real to me as my own brother. And last night I found that one last facet of him, and I got so excited, I wanted to wake up somebody and tell them. That's where I miss my wife most of all, because she wouldn't have minded.''
 Excitement exceeded any regret in his voice. ''I'm so glad that Hallie and Devon don't mind when I write all night. When I'm working, I'm not lonely. I was always this way. When we first went to New Hampshire, I'd start writing right out of bed, in my pajamas, and then I'd get so excited I'd never get dressed. Daisy would bring friends home after school, and I'd be in my pajamas, and she'd say to her mother: 'Daddy's got to get dressed. They think he's an alcoholic.' ''
 We both laughed. As lucky as he is to have a daughter and son-in-law who enjoy living with him, not to mention traveling and working with him -- both are cast in ''Dividing the Estate'' and ''The Trip to Bountiful'' -- it must be a mixed blessing to be dependent. Isn't there a part of him that wishes he could get in the car and go?
 ''Yeah, and they know that,'' he said. ''I don't hide those feelings. But after my wife died, well, my children helped a lot. They're very patient with me. And very responsive, looking out for me. Without making me feel less of a human being.''
 So, look where he's landed. A great American artist who's still commercially viable in Hollywood, of all places, at 91. What's the secret?
 ''Lord, have mercy,'' he said, laughing. ''I guess I'm persistent, because I don't give up. I have had a lot of setbacks, which I don't recall too much anymore. They generally disappear. Insecurity is a ghost. It's something that doesn't belong to us but insists on being with us. When I hit 80, I thought, I got a whole life ahead of me. But at 90, you begin to say, What's happening at 96, 97? My children get furious when I say that. I think it makes them feel worried, you know.'' His smile was wry. ''Dividing the estate.'' 
 I know he's speaking figuratively. In the golden age of television, for instance, all he was paid for a teleplay was $1,000. ''If I cared about that, I'd be dead,'' he said flatly. ''One way I've learned to survive is -- and I don't want to sound like Pollyanna here, but I haven't had to have the finest car or the most expensive house. That's where they get trapped.'' 
 What makes a good day now? 
 ''When my work goes well and I fight my demons. Everybody has demons. I don't know what mine are all the time. I'm constantly surprised. Sometimes it's circumstances, disappointments which are purely selfish.'' Foote spent two years developing a script of his 1979 play ''The Widow Claire'' with Robert Altman. Just as the money was raised, the director died. ''I was so impressed with Altman,'' he said. ''I feel a little cheated.''
 He shrugged. ''I come back pretty fast though. Particularly fast on something I'm interested in.'' 
 In the old days, Hallie Foote, who is 57, would have been described as a good egg. With her freckled face and easy manner, there is no glimpse of either the great dramatic actress or the polished comedienne she so often is in her father's plays. Standing in the kitchen chopping salad, or handing her father his cane before he can even ask for it, she's a no-frills, good-natured supporter. 
 The day after I spoke with Foote, Hallie and I had lunch at a Mexican restaurant, where she still ate salad. She and Abner, a handsome, kindhearted man who seems as tickled by his father-in-law as he is with his wife, met in 1979 in an acting class Foote was teaching at HB Studio in New York. They married in 1994. 
 ''My father is an artist, and he has things he wants to do,'' she said. ''This notion of retiring is stupid if you're passionate about something. He just loves writing or sitting in a theater rehearsing a play.
 ''Since he's been out here, he's writing more. It's almost a mystical experience -- something takes over, and Horton is not there. That can last for days. He doesn't sleep, then he tries to fake it. I often wonder, How did my mother take it? Because he won't let it go, a sentence, a word or a scene. I can't tell you how many times he sits and reads through it. Like great actors, the words almost get into your body, like a second skin. That's why actors love working on his stuff. There are so many layers to it. Every night something else reveals itself.'' 
 Indeed, the previous night, Hallie had about a dozen friends in for a buffet dinner, actors included, all of whom took their turn with Foote. Once dinner was served, Hallie put a plateful of food in front of him, and he and I sat apart from the crowd. He talked about Lillian Gish and D.W. Griffith and how they probably had an affair. About how wonderful Pauline Lord was touring in ''The Glass Menagerie.'' Now forgotten, she remains his favorite actress. He talked to me about the theater the way he must have talked to his family in Wharton about the neighbors. Small, insistent, amused sentences. His conversation is like his dialogue; without calling much attention to itself, it establishes a complex character in a world he loves -- the theater -- who has learned how to live there in his head when he can't be there in the flesh. The words are like music, and he takes deep pleasure in speaking them and hearing them. It's like writing, with company.
 The following day, Hallie took Foote and me for a drive through the Palisades. The ocean came into view. ''I like to look at it,'' Foote said, ''but I never learned to swim. My father had such a fear of the river, he would never let me go near the water. It's the one thing I regret deeply.''
 Well, just looking at the scenery is pretty great, isn't it? He was noncommittal. ''When I first came to California in 1933 to the Pasadena Playhouse, I was astounded. Orange groves every place. Then you get used to it.''
 Hallie had driven into an affluent section of town, up steep streets lined with oversize houses. ''I just get overcome by them, finally,'' Foote said. ''Like cathedrals. And no yards.''
 Finally, we reached the top. The late-afternoon sun was glorious on the water, electric blue and sparkling. Every lawn was the greenest green, every bougainvillea the deepest pink. Foote didn't seem to notice. As Hallie started the drive down, he said, ''I hope your brakes don't give way.''
 ''Very funny,'' she replied.
 ''I wouldn't want to be drunk up here,'' he went on. ''Some of my black friends say, 'I was born where it was flat, and I want to die where it is flat.' I feel the same,'' he said testily. ''You like to see where you are.'' 
 The car inched downward, and the ocean widened into a breathtaking vista. But Foote's attention had pulled to the left. ''There's a magnolia tree!'' he exclaimed. His whole body turned toward it in welcome. And for a moment, he was home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BIRTHE PIONTEK)(pg. MM24-25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); MAYORS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); FILM (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (63%); THEATER (56%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL PICTURES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (88%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



335 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Touting a Museum (and Trenton, Too)

BYLINE: By DAVID K. RANDALL

 BODY:
TRENTON
 THE visitors' center in the capital district has been closed for more than a year, and a master plan drafted in 2002 to increase the city's draw as a tourist destination has been largely abandoned. 
 Yet there is hope that the Old Barracks Museum, which shut its doors for two months earlier this year, may emerge as an anchor that can revitalize interest in Trenton's history and increase the city's economy. First, however, the museum itself needs financial help. 
 The Old Barracks, built as a British military garrison in 1758 and later used by American troops after the First Battle of Trenton, has long been a destination for school field trips. But those school-age visitors cannot pay the total cost of upkeep for the building and its staff, and the museum depends on the Legislature to stay afloat, said Richard Patterson, the museum's executive director. 
 The $375,000 a year that the museum received from the state the last 13 years -- totaling a little more than half its annual operating budget -- was reduced by $75,000 by the Legislature last year, Mr. Patterson said. That, he said, forced the Old Barracks to lay off all of its staff members for two months while it closed its doors to walk-up groups. Volunteers continued to lead school groups that had made reservations. 
 The museum reopened in March, and the Legislature allotted $450,000 to the Old Barracks in this year's budget. While that money will enable the museum to stay open year-round, a fund-raising drive is under way to create new exhibitions and help preserve the building, Mr. Patterson said. 
 State Senator Peter A. Inverso, a Republican from Hamilton who is also president of Roma Bank, which is helping with the fund-raising campaign, said he hoped it would spur private donations.
 ''Ideally the museum wouldn't have to rely on the state's grant if the public is responsive and this is something we can perpetuate,'' he said.
 The Trenton Downtown Association, a city-financed group that promotes tourism, sees the Old Barracks as the centerpiece of its plan to use the region's place in early American history to draw more visitors into Trenton. 
 The association has centered much of its annual Patriots Week festival, a weeklong celebration of the area's Revolutionary War past held since 2004, around re-enactments and exhibitions at the Old Barracks. An economic impact report released by the Trenton Downtown Association found that the festival brought in about $120,000 to the local economy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (77%); TOURISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



336 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The Death of a Fisherman In a Place of Good Water

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AMAGANSETT, N.Y.
 The eulogies at Calvin Lester's funeral were mostly about small acts, not big thoughts.
 The time he and his friend, Billy Havens, ages 11 and 12, bought a 1954 Ford for $25, ripped the doors and fenders off and turned it into a dune buggy. His daughter Kelly's remembrances of the bliss of being with her dad salvaging lobster gear after a storm off Gardiners Island.
 ''I just keep thinking he hated it when I cried,'' his daughter's eulogy read. ''He doesn't want us to cry over him. We have to pick up the pieces and carry on and keep fishing.'' 
 But there were lots of tears this month when they parked Calvin Lester's fishing dory outside the funeral home in East Hampton and buried him at the age of 54. There were tears because he died of cancer way too young, tears because he was so good at what he did -- probably the best bayman of the past 30 years, someone, it was said, who could drag a scallop dredge down a driveway and have it come up full of scallops.
 And there were tears because everyone knew that when they buried Calvin Lester, they buried the most powerful link to the Hamptons' fishing past, the person most at home in the disappearing world of South Fork baymen that was recounted in ''Men's Lives,'' Peter Matthiessen's 1986 book. 
 Amagansett means ''place of good water'' in one American Indian tongue, and for generations of Lesters who have lived here, it's been true in the most literal way.
 Calvin Lester's father, Captain Bill Lester, fished well into his 80s. When he said, ''Just as long as I can crawl, I'm going down there,'' he could have been reciting the family creed. The Matthiessen book told of another family patriarch, Ted Lester, Calvin's uncle, who, even when he was near death, ''still had to jump into the car every damn morning, run down and make sure that ocean was still there.''
 Calvin Lester quit school at 16 to fish full time. He learned from his father and others about tides and wind, where to find weakfish, bluefish and striped bass, how to operate fyke traps, pound traps and drift gill nets, and most important, how to run a five-man crew that set the ocean haul seines that were most effective in netting striped bass, the baymen's money fish.
 This was about skill, strength, knowledge and cunning. But it was also very much about a way of life. So he became, in some ways, the last of the Bonackers, the East End natives, born of the sea. When the Lost Tribe of Accabonac was formed in 1984 to bring together natives of East Hampton, he became its president. When people looked for the consummate fisherman, someone who could catch any fish, find clams, oysters, scallops or lobsters when the season was right, that was Calvin Lester, too.
 It was never an easy life, with mornings that began at 3 and seasons that bore no resemblance to the gentle rhythms of the tourist economy. And members of the tribe feel it's a life that's been under assault for decades with restrictions on netting, rising costs for everything from gas to land. To him and others the harshest blow came in 1990 when the state banned ocean seines to catch striped bass, which many saw as a death blow to small fishermen. 
 Twenty years ago there were about 150 people working as full-time baymen. Now there are perhaps 20. His older children, Danny, 34, and Kelly, 30, do it part time. His youngest son, Paul, 28, it is said, could end up the last full-time bayman standing.
 ''It made him a bitter person,'' Kelly said. ''But he didn't sit and cry. He had bills to pay and a family to support and he did what he had to do to stay on the water. And he was very proud that he could make a living on the water no matter what.''
 HE was, everyone said, a man of few words, who took care of others before he took care of himself -- witness the cigarette invariably dangling from his mouth. But his work and the life he led spoke for him. So, like his father, he went to the sea to the end, bringing in fish from the pound traps the weekend before he died.
 ''Calvin had an extraordinary connection to nature, to the sea, to the creatures who lived in it,'' said Arnold Leo, who worked with him in the East Hampton Town Baymen's Association. ''He represented a strain of spiritual awareness and communal values, which we're losing contact with every day.''
 Calvin Lester, he said, was more than the embodiment of a quaint way of life that has to go because hedge fund managers need places to build houses on the beach. He was the embodiment of a set of skills, a turn of mind, a connection with nature that we lose at great cost.
 E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MEN (88%); NATIVE AMERICANS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



337 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: A Harmonic Convergence in Union Square

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
IN the taxonomy of New York City, the mere mention of a certain neighborhood conjures an image of its local tribe: the Williamsburg hipster. The meatpacking district club-goer. The Park Slope Earth Mama. But whom does Union Square conjure?
 People like Amanda Bird, for one. On a recent Wednesday, Ms. Bird was ommming away the city's distractions at the free weekly yoga class in the park. Afterward she strolled through the Greenmarket, looking for snacks free of trans fats. 
 Ms. Bird, 25, comes to Union Square from her home in Brooklyn regularly: to work out and to shop at the farmers' stalls; to see her doctor, who advocates holistic health; and to eat curry supreme at Zen Palate, a favorite vegetarian restaurant. 
 If she wanted, she could also leave clothing at Union Cleaners in the neighborhood, one of the city's few organic dry cleaners. Or shop for a reclaimed wood table at Environment Furniture. 
 If she wanted to apply green thinking to her night life, she could stop by the Village Pourhouse, a pub that recently began using recycled paper products. 
 Though other areas of the city offer one or a few of these services, Union Square is becoming a one-stop destination for those who consider themselves health-conscious, eco-friendly and deserving of the kind of spiritual and bodily nurturing that in the past was mainly the province of spa vacations. If the meatpacking district is where you go to party, Union Square is where you detoxify.
 ''We call it the wheatpacking district,'' said Lisa Blau, who with Amanda Freeman founded VitalJuiceDaily.com, an e-mail newsletter devoted to healthy living that they publish from an office in the neighborhood.
 With its high concentration of popular organic food suppliers like Whole Foods and Trader Joe's, plus gyms (a half-dozen major ones in a 10-block radius), yoga and Pilates studios, alternative health practitioners, spas and other peddlers of vitality, Union Square may be the city's greenest neighborhood.
 ''This is a new face of new New York: an upscale, health-conscious district,'' said Robert Snyder, a professor of journalism and American studies at Rutgers who has written about the history of Union Square, a longtime site of political rallies and of the first Labor Day parade in 1882. But leave your Birkenstocks at home. ''It's not granola,'' Ms. Freeman said of the area. ''Formerly, if something was environmentally friendly, it was oatmeal-colored and styleless. Because eco-consciousness and the green movement has become popular, it's risen to appeal to the luxury class.''
 OVER the last six years, there has been a proliferation of spas and other personal care businesses in the area. Acupuncturists and massage therapists cluster there and, according to SpaFinder, whose offices are three blocks north of Union Square, there are more day spas there than on the Upper East Side. (The neighborhood's borders, according to the Union Square Partnership, are First and Sixth Avenues on the east and west, and 18th and 13th Streets on the north and south.)
 But this focus on luxury does come at a price, Dr. Snyder said. ''Good health and environmental consciousness expressed as a habit of consumption'' has the tinge of elitism, he said. ''Looking at the real estate and prices around the area, I do grow concerned that the new Union Square will be less inclusive than the old one.''
 Rosie Kanellis, 41, a textile designer who comes from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to shop at the Greenmarket, said that the area had become too corporate, and that she was ''opposed to the Whole Foods'' because ''it's quick-fix healthy.'' 
 Nonetheless, businesses are capitalizing on the area's new personality. Davide Berruto, chief executive of Environment Furniture, a Los Angeles-based store that opened its first East Coast outpost in Union Square last month, said an eco-conscious energy is ''in the air, it's in the people walking around.'' But that wouldn't matter, he said, if people had no money to spend. ''If you said, 'Oh there is this neighborhood and it's very green but it's not commercial,' we couldn't have done that.'' 
 Andrew Tanner, a managing partner of Tao Yoga & Tai Chi, spent months walking around the city looking for space for a new flagship studio before finding what he called the ideal 4,000-square-foot spot on Union Square West last year. 
 ''It's the yoga haven of New York City,'' he said, ticking off a few of the dozen major studios and schools located there, like Om Yoga, Prana Power, Bikram and Jivamukti. ''The energy field around Union Square is one of the best places around New York City,'' Mr. Tanner said. ''There's a lot of happiness here.''
 Jeffrey Williams, 22, a fashion designer from Harlem, agrees. He comes to Union Square almost daily for a healthy lunch and a berry smoothie. ''It feels fresh,'' he said of the area. ''When I think of Union Square, I think of unity and a good vibration and a connection to the earth.''
 Mr. Williams's generation may be the first to feel that way.
 ''Twenty, 30 years ago, you took your life in your hands going in there,'' said Joyce Mendelsohn, a city historian and the author of ''Touring the Flatiron: Walks in Four Historic Neighborhoods,'' which includes Union Square. Once considered a needle park, it was a refuge for drugs and prostitution. ''Any middle-class people who lived in the neighborhood didn't feel comfortable using the park,'' she said. ''It was such a gloomy place.'' 
 Not until the Greenmarket arrived, in 1976, did the park begin to attract crowds. In interviews, historians, city officials, business owners and residents credited the Greenmarket, the city's largest farmers' market -- along with the restaurateur Danny Meyer, whose Union Square Cafe began offering a Greenmarket-inspired menu in 1985 -- with helping transform the area. 
 ''The Greenmarket was able to fill a vacuum to give Union Square a citywide identity,'' said Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University. 
 As a major subway switching point, Union Square is ''the dividing line between hip New York and the old fogies,'' said Dr. Moss, who occasionally ventures into fogy territory. 
 The park has not totally lost its roots as an activist center: The Critical Mass bike ride, meant to promote oil-free transportation, departs from there monthly, and protesters coexist with skateboarders and vendors of antiwar T-shirts. Plus, there is near-constant canvassing and promotion: ''Do you have a minute to save the planet?'' or ''Free energy bar!'' is the 21st-century version of getting onto one's soapbox.
 ''It's become a place to talk about greening and environmental issues and things that relate to the earth,'' said Adrian Benepe, the parks commissioner, whose father, Barry Benepe, was a founder of the Greenmarket. When the city wanted to launch a pilot program of public recycling bins, it chose Union Square as one of two Manhattan locations. Next month, the Department of Sanitation will add electronics recycling there. It's also the only site that offers both composting and clothing recycling in conjunction with the Greenmarket, whose shoppers are sought after as eco-guinea pigs. 
 All of this helped draw people like Kate Sinding, a wheatpacking convert who moved to Union Square from Lower Manhattan in 2002. Like Ms. Bird, she does yoga, inspects labels, eats organic, conserves energy and rides a bike.
 ''It was very easy to have a relatively green lifestyle'' in Union Square, said Ms. Sinding, 36, a senior lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Council (whose headquarters are three blocks north of Union Square). But, she added, ''It's more of yuppie green lifestyle than a hippie green lifestyle. You can go to the Diesel store before or after you hit Whole Foods or the Greenmarket.''
 That juxtaposition is perhaps most indicative of the new Union Square, where the onetime headquarters of the Communist Party, on the east side of the park, is now a Babies ''R'' Us, and the allure of selecting a perfectly ripe peach is often trumped by rubbing shoulders with a television chef doing the same. It's no eco-topia, like Berkeley or even its New York equivalent, Park Slope.
 ''Park Slope has really great energy,'' said Mr. Tanner, who considered placing Tao Yoga in that neighborhood. ''But Union Square just takes the cake. I see celebrities there all the time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NEW TWIST: Tai chi classes have come to the Tao Yoga studio on Union Square West.
 HEALTHY ECONOMY: Free yoga in the park, the Union Square Greenmarket, ecofriendly cleaners and juice bars have created a blend of commune and commerce in this part of Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELIZABETH LIPPMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); YOGA (89%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (88%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (76%); ORGANIC FOODS (76%); MEAT FREE DIETS (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); MASSAGE SERVICES (71%); OILS & FATS (70%); VEGETARIAN RESTAURANTS (69%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (69%); US LABOR DAY (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (63%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (60%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (54%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



338 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; WALL STREET QUAKE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: The Unforgivingness of Forgetfulness

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
UNDERSTANDING how subprime mortgages led to the current market meltdown is a bit like figuring out a card trick.
 Lenders and financial wizards took the joker -- the risk that certain borrowers might default -- and hid it in the deck. They shuffled all those risky subprime mortgages into much bigger investment pools, then cut the deck twice, fanned the cards and presto, it disappeared. Magic.
 But then borrowers were shown the sleight of hand. Of course, the joker was always there, and the risks were real. Now people are defaulting on loans, and investors are spooked, prompting the Federal Reserve late last week to act by cutting the rate it charges banks on loans, which buoyed the stock market Friday. 
 Not long ago, people were slapping their foreheads, too, after the tech-stock boom busted earlier this decade. Much of the talk of new paradigms turned out to be worth the pizza boxes that many a dot-com business plan was written on.
 All of this raises questions: Why such short memories? Why did so many homebuyers ignore recent lessons -- to be skeptical about can't-lose, instant-wealth machines like tech stocks -- and start viewing real estate as such a certain and profitable bet?
 ''It is amazing how quickly people forget,'' said Robin Greenwood, an economist at the Harvard Business School, who has studied investor behavior during the late-1990's boom.
 One explanation is that many investors tend to have selective memories. They may have been burned in the stock market, but they view real estate as something altogether different, governed by its own laws of nature.
 ''From 40,000 feet, it looks like an investment world gone crazy in both cases,'' said Susan M. Wachter, a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, who has written about the dangers of aggressive lending practices in real estate. ''But closer in, it's a different part of the forest.''
 To be sure, it is easy to think of houses as having little in common with tech stocks.
 Wall Street analysts were making up new metrics late last decade for valuing dot-com companies, based on ''eyeballs'' and ''first-mover advantage,'' and ignoring many traditional measures (like profits). When shares started to fall, there was not much to underpin their value.
 But what could be a more solid investment -- literally and figuratively -- than real estate? It was the perfect antidote to dot-com stocks. As a result, the popping of one bubble may have helped lay the groundwork for another.
 Besides, home ownership has long been seen as a worthy goal in its own right. ''Owning a home lies at the heart of the American dream,'' President Bush has said. ''It serves as the foundation of many Americans' financial security.''
 Lenders created an array of mortgages to get people into homes for the first time with modest initial payments. With interest rates so low, there seemed little reason for people to hold back.
 House prices had been rising since pretty much forever, people were told, and they were rising faster now. The median house price more than doubled from 1993 to 2005, in nominal terms, while incomes rose just 49 percent. Only some of the increase in home prices could be attributed to falling interest rates and population growth.
 Real estate became an easy ticket to a nationwide party where people seemed to be making life-changing money, spending their downtime watching real estate show like ''Flip This House,'' surfing Web sites like condoflip.com and reading books like ''Are You Missing the Real Estate Boom?'' by David Lereah, chief economist for the National Association of Realtors.
 And the real estate boom was a far more inclusive party than the tech-stock bubble. People then needed to have the money to buy the stocks that, with luck, would rocket to the moon, or work at a hot company that was doling out stock options to employees.
 Everyone else could only press their noses to glass, watching with envy.
 But with real estate, homeowners needed to do little more than think about the soaring value of an asset they already owned. People who had been renting, meanwhile, could easily take the monthly check they had been sending to their landlord and turn it into a mortgage payment. A down payment wasn't always necessary.
 Many mortgages had artificially low initial payments. The only worry was the spring-loaded trap of a higher reset rate, but that was a problem for another day.
 The back-of-the-envelope math worked for many homebuyers -- first-timers and speculators alike -- as long as home prices kept rising quickly. Veteran home buyers went to condo parties, selling properties many times over before they had even been built.
 The wizardry of financial institutions to bundle mortgages and sell them to investors now is seen by many as a regrettable development. But for years, such strategies were viewed as a way to help achieve the laudable goal of boosting home-ownership levels in this country.
 ''I envision a time when the credit market will bend to suit the needs of home buyers and homeowners, not the other way around,'' Franklin D. Raines, the former chief of Fannie Mae, wrote in 1998, adding that ''we must embark on a new era for mortgage finance.''
 The new era arrived, but has turned into a nightmare for many -- not just homeowners who are facing foreclosure, but also for investors around the globe who are discovering their pools of investments are filled with sharks.
 Investors are optimists by nature. (Even those who bet that stocks will fall are optimistic about their bets.) And talk of new economies and new paradigms, driven by technological innovation, are hard to resist.
 All it really takes are a few data points trending in the right direction -- 1,2,3 and on to infinity -- to stoke the fires, said James L. Koch, a management professor and director of the Center for Science, Technology and Society at Santa Clara University. 
 ''One can extrapolate the rate of appreciation into the future, and therefore, in a sense, feel you aren't taking a lot of risk,'' he said. If only optimism could eliminate risk.
 In true form, there is an optimistic, long-term view of the current mess: all the innovations in mortgage finance will be recalibrated in a way that takes fuller account of risk, rather than trying to hide the joker in a deck of cards.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NICE WHILE IT LASTED Problems in the credit market have shaken the confidence of stock markets around the world. To some analysts, the pattern is reminiscent of the dot-com bubble, and burst, of the late 1990s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY FRANK STOCKTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUSINESS PLANS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



339 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: The War as We Saw It

BYLINE: By BUDDHIKA JAYAMAHA, WESLEY D. SMITH, JEREMY ROEBUCK, OMAR MORA, EDWARD SANDMEIER, YANCE T. GRAY and JEREMY A. MURPHY. 
Buddhika Jayamaha is an Army specialist. Wesley D. Smith is a sergeant. Jeremy Roebuck is a sergeant. Omar Mora is a sergeant. Edward Sandmeier is a sergeant. Yance T. Gray is a staff sergeant. Jeremy A. Murphy is a staff sergeant.

 BODY:
Baghdad
 VIEWED from Iraq at the tail end of a 15-month deployment, the political debate in Washington is indeed surreal. Counterinsurgency is, by definition, a competition between insurgents and counterinsurgents for the control and support of a population. To believe that Americans, with an occupying force that long ago outlived its reluctant welcome, can win over a recalcitrant local population and win this counterinsurgency is far-fetched. As responsible infantrymen and noncommissioned officers with the 82nd Airborne Division soon heading back home, we are skeptical of recent press coverage portraying the conflict as increasingly manageable and feel it has neglected the mounting civil, political and social unrest we see every day. (Obviously, these are our personal views and should not be seen as official within our chain of command.) 
 The claim that we are increasingly in control of the battlefields in Iraq is an assessment arrived at through a flawed, American-centered framework. Yes, we are militarily superior, but our successes are offset by failures elsewhere. What soldiers call the ''battle space'' remains the same, with changes only at the margins. It is crowded with actors who do not fit neatly into boxes: Sunni extremists, Al Qaeda terrorists, Shiite militiamen, criminals and armed tribes. This situation is made more complex by the questionable loyalties and Janus-faced role of the Iraqi police and Iraqi Army, which have been trained and armed at United States taxpayers' expense. 
 A few nights ago, for example, we witnessed the death of one American soldier and the critical wounding of two others when a lethal armor-piercing explosive was detonated between an Iraqi Army checkpoint and a police one. Local Iraqis readily testified to American investigators that Iraqi police and Army officers escorted the triggermen and helped plant the bomb. These civilians highlighted their own predicament: had they informed the Americans of the bomb before the incident, the Iraqi Army, the police or the local Shiite militia would have killed their families. 
 As many grunts will tell you, this is a near-routine event. Reports that a majority of Iraqi Army commanders are now reliable partners can be considered only misleading rhetoric. The truth is that battalion commanders, even if well meaning, have little to no influence over the thousands of obstinate men under them, in an incoherent chain of command, who are really loyal only to their militias. 
 Similarly, Sunnis, who have been underrepresented in the new Iraqi armed forces, now find themselves forming militias, sometimes with our tacit support. Sunnis recognize that the best guarantee they may have against Shiite militias and the Shiite-dominated government is to form their own armed bands. We arm them to aid in our fight against Al Qaeda. 
 However, while creating proxies is essential in winning a counterinsurgency, it requires that the proxies are loyal to the center that we claim to support. Armed Sunni tribes have indeed become effective surrogates, but the enduring question is where their loyalties would lie in our absence. The Iraqi government finds itself working at cross purposes with us on this issue because it is justifiably fearful that Sunni militias will turn on it should the Americans leave.
 In short, we operate in a bewildering context of determined enemies and questionable allies, one where the balance of forces on the ground remains entirely unclear. (In the course of writing this article, this fact became all too clear: one of us, Staff Sergeant Murphy, an Army Ranger and reconnaissance team leader, was shot in the head during a ''time-sensitive target acquisition mission'' on Aug. 12; he is expected to survive and is being flown to a military hospital in the United States.) While we have the will and the resources to fight in this context, we are effectively hamstrung because realities on the ground require measures we will always refuse -- namely, the widespread use of lethal and brutal force.
 Given the situation, it is important not to assess security from an American-centered perspective. The ability of, say, American observers to safely walk down the streets of formerly violent towns is not a resounding indicator of security. What matters is the experience of the local citizenry and the future of our counterinsurgency. When we take this view, we see that a vast majority of Iraqis feel increasingly insecure and view us as an occupation force that has failed to produce normalcy after four years and is increasingly unlikely to do so as we continue to arm each warring side. 
 Coupling our military strategy to an insistence that the Iraqis meet political benchmarks for reconciliation is also unhelpful. The morass in the government has fueled impatience and confusion while providing no semblance of security to average Iraqis. Leaders are far from arriving at a lasting political settlement. This should not be surprising, since a lasting political solution will not be possible while the military situation remains in constant flux.
 The Iraqi government is run by the main coalition partners of the Shiite-dominated United Iraqi Alliance, with Kurds as minority members. The Shiite clerical establishment formed the alliance to make sure its people did not succumb to the same mistake as in 1920: rebelling against the occupying Western force (then the British) and losing what they believed was their inherent right to rule Iraq as the majority. The qualified and reluctant welcome we received from the Shiites since the invasion has to be seen in that historical context. They saw in us something useful for the moment. 
 Now that moment is passing, as the Shiites have achieved what they believe is rightfully theirs. Their next task is to figure out how best to consolidate the gains, because reconciliation without consolidation risks losing it all. Washington's insistence that the Iraqis correct the three gravest mistakes we made -- de-Baathification, the dismantling of the Iraqi Army and the creation of a loose federalist system of government -- places us at cross purposes with the government we have committed to support. 
 Political reconciliation in Iraq will occur, but not at our insistence or in ways that meet our benchmarks. It will happen on Iraqi terms when the reality on the battlefield is congruent with that in the political sphere. There will be no magnanimous solutions that please every party the way we expect, and there will be winners and losers. The choice we have left is to decide which side we will take. Trying to please every party in the conflict -- as we do now -- will only ensure we are hated by all in the long run. 
 At the same time, the most important front in the counterinsurgency, improving basic social and economic conditions, is the one on which we have failed most miserably. Two million Iraqis are in refugee camps in bordering countries. Close to two million more are internally displaced and now fill many urban slums. Cities lack regular electricity, telephone services and sanitation. ''Lucky'' Iraqis live in gated communities barricaded with concrete blast walls that provide them with a sense of communal claustrophobia rather than any sense of security we would consider normal. 
 In a lawless environment where men with guns rule the streets, engaging in the banalities of life has become a death-defying act. Four years into our occupation, we have failed on every promise, while we have substituted Baath Party tyranny with a tyranny of Islamist, militia and criminal violence. When the primary preoccupation of average Iraqis is when and how they are likely to be killed, we can hardly feel smug as we hand out care packages. As an Iraqi man told us a few days ago with deep resignation, ''We need security, not free food.'' 
 In the end, we need to recognize that our presence may have released Iraqis from the grip of a tyrant, but that it has also robbed them of their self-respect. They will soon realize that the best way to regain dignity is to call us what we are -- an army of occupation -- and force our withdrawal. 
 Until that happens, it would be prudent for us to increasingly let Iraqis take center stage in all matters, to come up with a nuanced policy in which we assist them from the margins but let them resolve their differences as they see fit. This suggestion is not meant to be defeatist, but rather to highlight our pursuit of incompatible policies to absurd ends without recognizing the incongruities. 
 We need not talk about our morale. As committed soldiers, we will see this mission through. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL HOPPE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



340 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1950 words

HEADLINE: Loan by Loan, the Making of a Credit Squeeze

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
THREE years ago, Martin and Jennifer Cossette bought into the dream of homeownership -- the quintessentially American ideal of personal striving and family stability celebrated by politicians, promoted by Madison Avenue and financed by Wall Street.
 The modest Cape Cod-style house, in Meriden, Conn., had three bedrooms, and a backyard for their young son, Steven. Like so many families, they stretched to buy their first home. In the red-hot housing market at the time, they put no money down and got a mortgage for its entire $180,000 price tag. They had qualms but too few, as reassuring lenders spoke of rising housing prices, falling interest rates and easy access to future loans.
 None of it turned out that way. There were unforeseen expenses: a new furnace, stove and garage door. Bills mounted and credit card debt got out of hand. They refinanced in late 2005, folding other debts into the mortgage, but that proved to be only a stopgap.
 Earlier this year, the Cossettes filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 13, used by wage earners who want to hold onto their homes. But the monthly payments on the $230,000 mortgage were $1,800, 40 percent higher than the first mortgage, and headed even higher. So they decided to let the house go. ''We were totally naive,'' said Mr. Cossette, a purchasing agent for a warehouse company. 
 Families like the Cossettes are the individual faces of the American credit crunch of 2007. The economic bite of the credit squeeze, which began with troubles in the market for higher-risk home loans, like the one made to the Cossettes, continued to intensify last week. Stock markets around the globe were pummeled by worries about the squeeze's ripple effect. Businesses and savers far removed from the housing fallout, from the shares of industrial companies to 401(k) retirement accounts, suffered losses. 
 Consumer confidence is slipping. Countrywide Financial, the nation's largest mortgage lender, was forced Thursday to tap $11.5 billion in emergency loans from 40 of the world's largest banks. The Federal Reserve took a dramatic step on Friday, cutting the rate it charges banks for loans to add liquidity and steady the financial markets. The Fed explained its move by saying that the risk to the economy from the credit squeeze had increased ''appreciably.''
 The fallout extends from hedge fund managers to rank-and-file investors, but the most personally punishing setback is a family losing its home. 
 About 1.7 million households will lose their homes to foreclosure this year and next, according to estimates by Moody'sEconomy.com. That would be nearly double the number of the previous two years.
 Looking at foreclosure warning signs like loan delinquency and default rates, which are spiking, Mark Zandi, chief economist of Economy.com, said the outlook was ''very dark,'' largely because of the current ''self-reinforcing downward cycle'' of falling house prices, loan defaults and credit tightening that pushes house prices down further.
 There are regional and local differences, to be sure. Problems tend to be more pronounced in a few Midwestern states with weak economies, like Michigan and Ohio, and states with the greatest concentration of subprime loans, like California, Florida and Nevada. ''But the trouble is not just a few places. It's coast to coast now,'' Mr. Zandi said.
 As the squeeze on homeowners becomes worse, the political debate over how to address the problem will intensify. Earlier this month, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, called for a crackdown on mortgage brokers who engage in so-called predatory lending, and a $1 billion federal fund to help families avoid foreclosure.
 Senators Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Charles E. Schumer of New York, both Democrats, recently urged federal regulators to ease restrictions so that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two giant mortgage agencies, could buy more mortgages and mortgage-backed securities from lenders to add fresh capital to the home credit markets. The lenders, then, would presumably have to use the new capital to refinance loans for borrowers facing default and foreclosure.
 Congress is looking hard at changing the bankruptcy law so courts can restructure home loans as they do other personal loans like credit card debt. The goal, proponents say, would be to update the bankruptcy code in line with realities of the modern mortgage market.
 In Chapter 13, a borrower's mortgage obligation remains intact. The most that a person gets is extra time to catch up on payments in arrears, but every nickel on the mortgage must be paid. 
 The bankruptcy code went through a major revision two years ago, in what was seen as a triumph for banks and other lenders. The revision made it harder for people to declare bankruptcy, especially a Chapter 7, or ''straight bankruptcy,'' in which everything is liquidated, by setting tighter income and means tests to qualify. The 2005 amendments also set more stringent rules for writing down unsecured debt, notably credit card debt. 
 PROTECTION for the mortgage lender has been unchanged since the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978. At the time, first-time home buyers paid about 20 percent of the value of the houses upfront, got fixed-rate mortgages, and the lenders were local bankers -- serious, skeptical types who scrutinized borrowers. Homeowners agreed to mortgages they could afford. When they ran into financial troubles, it was typically because of some unforeseen event in their lives like the loss of a job, an illness or a divorce. The mortgage was rarely the problem.
 Yet the mortgage often is the financial culprit these days. That is particularly true of lending in the subprime market of zero-down loans with terms fixed for two years and then floating rates, arranged by aggressive national mortgage brokers and bankers who earn lucrative fees.
 ''The bankruptcy law was written for a different world, and we want to give the bankruptcy courts, and creditors, more flexible tools to work with borrowers to save their homes,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois.
 In September, Mr. Durbin, the Democratic whip, plans to propose amendments to the bankruptcy code, in a bill called the Helping Families Avoid Foreclosure Act. It would, among other things, permit writing down loans and stretching out payment terms. 
 Some bankruptcy experts agree that it is time to change the law. ''Our bankruptcy laws are not well designed to deal with a massive wave of mortgage foreclosures,'' said Elizabeth Warren, a professor at the Harvard Law School. In particular, Ms. Warren said, bankruptcy courts should be able to rewrite mortgages in line with market conditions. 
 The banking industry, which pushed hard for the tougher bankruptcy law in 2005, wants no easing up now. 
 For people struggling to hold onto their homes, the path to financial peril usually began with bad loans. Bad choices often made matters worse.
 That is the story Neil Crane hears and sees every day in Connecticut, a state that closely tracks the national trends in mortgage loan delinquencies and defaults. Mr. Crane, a lawyer in Hamden, Conn., has been handling personal bankruptcies for 25 years. Business is brisk. His office takes on 30 new cases a month, a 50 percent increase in the last year and a half. 
 His clients, including the Cossettes, are families typically with household incomes of $65,000 to $90,000 a year. In the past, Mr. Crane said, it was usually the loss of a job, a lengthy illness or another unexpected setback that pushed people into bankruptcy.
 ''But what we see now are people who refinanced to pay existing bills, with the encouragement of lenders, on very poorterms that only worsened their problems,'' he said. ''If you sat in at the mortgage closing, you could have predicted the bankruptcy.''
 Joseph and Lu-Ann Horn bought their 1,200-square-foot, three-bedroom home in South Windsor, Conn., in 2002, paying for nearly all of it with a $150,000 loan. The mortgage was a 30-year loan with a fixed rate of 7.5 percent. Two years later, they decided to refinance to pay off their truck and their credit card debt and to buy a $4,000 motorcycle. 
 The new mortgage was for $198,000, at a fixed rate of about 8 percent for two years and variable rates afterward. The monthly payment was about $1,600. The mortgage broker, Mr. Horn said, told them not to worry about the variable rate because they could refinance in two years and lock in a fixed rate again.
 ''They basically put us in a loan that they knew we couldn't pay,'' Mr. Horn said. ''We never should have done it.''
 When the fixed rate expired last year, the Horns found no willing lenders. The interest rate has jumped and the monthly payments rose to nearly $2,200, Ms. Horn said. ''It just goes up and up,'' she said.
 Mr. Horn, 34, is a truck driver and Ms. Horn, 39, is an assistant manager in a fast-food restaurant. They make about $70,000 a year, but with two children and other expenses they fell behind on the mortgage. They have been served with foreclosure papers, and have filed for Chapter 13. ''We're fighting to hold onto the house now,'' Ms. Horn said.
 For Sue Ellis, 47, a nurse in Northford, Conn., the road to bankruptcy began with a home improvement project six years ago. ''If I had it to do over again, I never would have redone my kitchen,'' she said. 
 The first refinancing added $40,000 to her original mortgage of $140,000 on the small ranch house she bought in 1997. She was a single parent and wanted to have a backyard for her two children. The monthly payment on the original mortgage was about $850.
 Ms. Ellis has since remarried, and she and her husband, Robert, a salesman at an industrial equipment company, make about $85,000 a year. But the higher mortgage and other bills led to two more refinancings, in 2003 and 2005, each to pay off about $40,000 in credit card debt. ''We were using credit cards to pay the bills and then we refinanced to pay off the credit cards,'' she said. ''It's a vicious cycle.''
 Today, her mortgage debt is $260,000, and her monthly payments are $2,400. The value of her house, said Mr. Crane, her lawyer, is about $200,000. Ms. Ellis is a month behind in her mortgage payment and is not in foreclosure yet. But she has also accumulated more than $20,000 in credit card debt, and she is filing for Chapter 13 bankruptcy.
 FOR people in Chapter 13 and facing foreclosure, the struggle to hold onto a home will be an uphill battle. Bankruptcy buys a few months of relief from creditors. Mr. Crane urges his clients to use the breathing room to build up a small cushion of savings and to pare back all expenses. Life's small frills -- restaurant meals, movies, Starbucks coffee -- are jettisoned. Brown-bag lunches can save a few dollars a day.
 The goal, Mr. Crane said, is to establish 12 months of timely mortgage payments and then, with court approval, refinance into a lower-interest, fixed-rate mortgage -- and to take advantage of any new federal or state programs to help homeowners.
 For Mr. Cossette, 37, who is now a renter, homeownership no longer has much allure. ''You put your life's sweat into a piece of real estate that may or may not go up in value,'' he said. ''So I don't have a house. That's O.K. with me.''
 Mr. Cossette said he may never again own a house. He would not consider buying, unless he could put 20 percent down, he said. His experience with the home lending system has left him understandably jaded, and he has a suggestion for policy makers. 
 ''Hopefully, they will make it harder for people to buy houses in the long run,'' Mr. Cossette said. ''Maybe others can learn from this.'' 

GRAPHIC: Martin Cossette, with his son, Steven, is now a renter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE ROSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU1)
Joseph and Lu-Ann Horn filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy when payments rose and they couldn't find a lender willing to refinance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU7) CHART: ''Foreclosures Ahead'' The number of mortgage loans in foreclosure is predicted to rise sharply. (Sources: F.D.I.C.
Equifax
 Moody's Economy.com)(pg. BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); US 401K PLANS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: MIKE ROSS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



341 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2253 words

HEADLINE: The City Of Gold

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
IT wasn't supposed to happen this way.
 Just a year ago, as real estate brokers fretted through an ominously quiet third quarter, many Manhattanites waited for the housing market to reverse its madcap ascent and fall into line with the rest of the country.
 But something happened on the way to the Great Manhattan Housing Slump. After what brokers optimistically termed a ''pause'' in the second half of 2006, buyers swarmed into the market. The torrent was so intense that by the end of this past June, it was clear that an astonishing gulf had opened up between Manhattan and nearly everywhere else.
 On the national level, sales of existing homes slowed by 17 percent in the second quarter of 2007, compared with the second quarter of 2006, while inventory swelled by 16 percent, according to figures provided by the National Association of Realtors. New homes fared even worse: they fell by almost 19 percent, according to Commerce Department figures. 
 In Manhattan, by comparison, sales of new and existing apartments more than doubled. In a trend that could shift quickly in light of the recent problems in the credit and stock markets, inventory shed a third of its bulk. It dropped to 5,237 units, despite the influx of several thousand new condos, according to Miller Samuel Inc., the Manhattan appraisal company 
 Prices have been starkly different as well. By last month, the national picture was so dire that Angelo R. Mozilo, the chairman and chief executive of Countrywide Financial, the country's largest mortgage lender, said things had not been so bleak since the Depression.
 Cut to Manhattan. After a boom with annual price increases of 20 percent or more ended in mid-2005, prices have continued to rise over all, but not as sharply. In the second quarter of 2007, Miller Samuel said the average sale price of a Manhattan studio climbed 16.5 percent compared with the second quarter of 2005. The average for a one-bedroom climbed by 18.4 percent and a two-bedroom by 5.9 percent. 
 Apartments with three bedrooms, which make up about 6 percent of the market but appeal to an ever-more-moneyed class of buyers, rose by 17.9 percent in the same period.
 Major brokerages, including Halstead Property, Bellmarc Realty, Brown Harris Stevens, Prudential Douglas Elliman and the Corcoran Group, say they are recording sales and profits that rival boom-time results. In fact, Douglas Elliman and Corcoran predict that this will be their most lucrative year by far.
 Whether this momentum can be sustained remains to be seen, particularly in light of the recent gyrations in the debt market, which have led to a reduction in the availability of large mortgages and to an increase in their rates. A deepening credit-market crisis and national housing slump could squeeze the economy, the stock market and bonus pools.
 ''For the first time in over a year, there is some negative talk -- about the credit markets and whether or not this will permeate the New York City real estate market,'' said Pamela Liebman, president of Corcoran. ''As of right now, it hasn't. There has been no slowdown.'' She said the biggest concern among her agents is finding enough inventory to satisfy demand.
 But a buying binge alone does not a housing boom make. ''I'm still not characterizing the market right now as a housing boom except in the upper echelon,'' said Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel. 
 So how has Manhattan (and, to a lesser extent, sought-after pockets of Brooklyn) managed to avoid a slump? 
 ''Obviously, the market was helped first by the rumor and the reality of bonus money,'' said Frederick W. Peters, president of Warburg Realty. He was referring to the fourth straight year of substantial bonus increases, particularly on Wall Street, that along with a rising stock market helped push buyers off the sidelines at the end of 2006 and caused some agents to cancel their winter vacations.
 ''But I also think we're just in one of those demographic upswing periods,'' Mr. Peters added. ''More people are moving into the city, fewer people are moving out, and the rental market got much tighter over the course of 2006, which once again made buying a more attractive option. You put all those things together, and the market sort of entered the narrow part of the hourglass.''
 There were other factors to consider, too. Tourism is at record highs, and the local economy is doing well in general. And it's nearly as hard to find premium office space or a spot in private school as it is to find a family-size apartment.
 But that's exactly what more and more families have set their sights on. 
 It has been years since Samantha Kleier Forbes, a broker at Gumley Haft Kleier, lost a client to the suburbs. ''My last casualty was in '04,'' she said. As two-career couples work longer hours and as the city grows safer and more family-friendly, there is a big demand for large apartments like Classic 6's -- a two-bedroom apartment with living room, dining room, kitchen and maid's room (where children can be found bunking like sailors).
 Families who want to stay, brokers say, are only one segment of the more stratified and well-heeled masses clamoring for a piece of Manhattan. While the dollar's seemingly endless slide may have crimped the foreign vacation plans of many Americans, the purchasing power of Europeans has strengthened. They are increasingly matched, if not outmatched, by buyers from countries like China and India. And foreign buyers find Manhattan real estate very appealing when they compare prices in other large international cities like London. 
 ''I've had 20 percent more business from international clients in the past couple of years,'' said Sallie Stern, a senior vice president and managing director of Brown Harris Stevens. ''They probably account for 30 to 35 percent. It's a world market now.'' 
 Shaun Osher, the chief executive of CORE Group Marketing, which is handling 11 condominium projects in Manhattan, said the number of foreign apartment-seekers had doubled since the end of 2005. Foreign buyers now constitute 5 to 10 percent of the sales in the buildings marketed by his firms. 
 ''When you look at hotel rates and what it costs to come into Manhattan, it makes sense now to buy a pied-a-terre,'' he said. 
 Besides foreign buyers, brokers say, more parents are snapping up apartments for their children, and some retirees are choosing Manhattan over the likes of Boca Raton.
 ''The baby boomer generation isn't ready to give up and live in a swamp,'' said Darren Sukenik, an executive vice president of Prudential Douglas Elliman. In fact, they are living the lives their nearby children would like to lead if only they weren't working so hard, he said. 
 Meanwhile, renters have emerged as a force in the market, particularly for entry-level apartments. ''Rents are rising again, and that pushes people back into the condo and co-op market if they have more than a one- or two-year time frame for living in Manhattan,'' said Stephen G. Kliegerman, the executive director of marketing for new developments at Halstead Property. 
 Fanning the flames have been job and population growth, historically low interest rates and a trove of personal wealth minted by hedge funds, private equity firms and, to a lesser extent, the investment banks that serve them. Add to that the psychological comfort of knowing that Manhattan flourished after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and further, that it appears to have shrugged off a national housing slump.
 Even the condo glut that so many real estate executives feared has turned out instead to be a boon of sorts. ''If we didn't have new development coming on at the pace we did, we'd have a chronic shortage across all sectors, and we'd see 20 percent price growth,'' said Mr. Miller, the appraiser.
 Mr. Peters of Warburg Realty agreed. ''You can't even imagine how awful it would be,'' he said. On the other hand, he added, things may feel pretty awful already for buyers who want a prewar apartment, since inventory in this sector continues to evaporate. In the last two years, co-ops, about half of which were built before World War II, have slipped from 63 percent of the market to 47 percent as new condos have been built, Miller Samuel said.
 ''There are so many new units coming on the market and being sold, but the real heart and soul of the co-op market is really depleted,'' said Barbara Fox, the president of the Fox Residential Group, a Manhattan brokerage. 
 Consequently, brokers say, many prewar apartments in good condition, along with family-size apartments of any vintage, are being snatched up in bidding wars whose aggressiveness outrivals those of two years ago.
 ''The new rule is that there are no rules, and when you're lying bleeding on your way to the emergency room, you're still shouting, 'Higher offer, higher offer!' '' said Julie Friedman, a senior associate broker at Bellmarc. 
 She was among the many brokers who said that ''best and final'' offers have largely become neither, with buyers and sellers routinely negotiating after another bid has been accepted. ''You remind sellers that there is a moral component, but my duty is to get the highest amount, and 'moral' and 'the highest amount' don't necessarily overlap,'' she said. 
 Some brokers complained that the demise of the sealed bid, which has been replaced over the last two or three years by e-mail offers to the seller's agent, has further undermined fair play. ''Buyers don't trust them as much,'' said Michele Kleier, president of Gumley Haft Kleier.
 Whether Manhattan continues to be the land the slump forgot or is merely sunning itself before a hurricane is something of a guess. A strengthening dollar, a severe terrorist attack or a national economy hobbled by housing market woes could inflict blows of varying strengths.
 More immediate is the worry about the availability of credit. ''While I don't think we were propped up to the extent other markets were by subprime and adjustable-rate mortgages, it does make credit hard to get for everyone to some degree,'' said Gregory J. Heym, an economist for Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property. ''Most people are probably expecting mortgages to be tougher to get.''
 Mortgage lenders everywhere are going back to pre-boom lending standards, so obtaining a mortgage is harder for buyers with pockmarked credit or sketchy employment. But there is no panic over rising mortgage rates on jumbo loans (those exceeding $417,000), at least not now.
 Large lenders like Chase and HSBC that typically sell mortgages after they make them can no longer do so because the credit crisis has dried up the secondary market, said Jeffrey Appel, a senior vice president and the director of new development financing at the Preferred Empire Mortgage Company in New York. Many large institutional lenders have raised their rates as a hedge against uncertainty, but rates at smaller regional savings banks, the so-called portfolio lenders who hang on to their loans, have hardly budged. 
 Last Monday, Melissa L. Cohn, the president of the Manhattan Mortgage Company, the largest residential mortgage broker in the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, said her best rate on a 30-year $1 million mortgage was 6 7/8 percent, offered by a portfolio lender. And her worst rate, offered by a lender that sells mortgages on the secondary market, was 8 3/8 percent.
 ''Despite this incredible hysteria,'' Ms. Cohn said, ''there's plenty of money for qualified borrowers.''
 The credit-market meltdown could yet cloud Manhattan's real estate prospects because of stock-market jitters. And an end to the leveraged buyout boom, if that happens, could trigger layoffs on Wall Street and eat away at bonuses.
 But the fiscal year is far enough along that financial services workers can expect gains of 10 to 15 percent when bonus season rolls around later this year, said Alan Johnson, the managing director of Johnson Associates, a Wall Street compensation consultant. The real pain, if there is any to be felt, would come in the 2008-09 bonus season, he said, and a year or two later for private equity firms, which typically make their profits several years after a takeover.
 ''Pay is going to probably drop, but if it's dropping from a really, really high level, we're probably not going to have any charity dinners for these people,'' Mr. Johnson said.
 By then, too, the flow of new development is expected to slow significantly, judging from the dwindling number of construction permits filed this year. To the extent Manhattan's housing market is threatened by a weak national economy and by declining bonuses, said Mr. Miller of Miller Samuel, ''then the fact that we have a lower level of supply coming on would help keep the market from correcting.''
 Neil Binder, a principal in Bellmarc Realty and a 30-year industry veteran, typically views upturns with a jaundiced eye. But in a residential market with tight supply and intense demand, he doesn't see Manhattan's real estate karma changing anytime soon, even in the face of mortgage-market turmoil. 
 ''My brokers are saying their biggest frustration is to have buyers when there's no product and that there's nothing out there but new construction,'' Mr. Binder said. ''We may have bumps, but I don't feel the underpinnings are weakening. My biggest problem this month is that I have all my salespeople taking vacations because they made so much money. My East Side office is a ghost town.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: ''Declining Manhattan Inventory'' Since June 2006, the national inventory of houses for sale has increased by 12 percent, but Manhattan's apartment inventory has decreased by 32 percent. (Source: National Association of Realtors, Miller Samuel)(pg. RE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); STATISTICS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CORPORATE DEBT (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); MORTGAGE BANKING (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



342 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: A Finding Of Umpire Bias Is Small But Still Striking

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ. 
E-mail: keepingscore@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Game officials have been quite the topic of discussion lately, what with the former N.B.A. referee Tim Donaghy pleading guilty Wednesday to two felony charges pertaining to gambling. But as salacious as explicit association with bettors has been, it was implicit association -- the tendency for people in split-second interactions to favor members of their own race -- that drew the attention of some prominent economists.
 The day before Donaghy's plea, four academics released a study that found that Major League Baseball umpires called strikes at different rates depending on a pitcher's ethnicity. Specifically, an umpire will -- with all other matters such as game score and pitcher quality accounted for -- call a pitch a strike about 1 percent more often if he and the pitcher are of the same race. 
 The analysis was conducted by Christopher A. Parsons, an assistant professor of finance at McGill University; Johan Sulaeman, a graduate student at the University of Texas; Michael C. Yates, an assistant professor of finance at Auburn University; and Daniel S. Hamermesh, a professor of economics at the University of Texas. Their work was spurred by the release of a similar paper in May, in which an Ivy League professor and graduate student found that primarily white N.B.A. refereeing crews whistled fouls (again, all else being equal) more frequently against black players than against white players.
 The variance in baseball was quite small, even smaller than basketball's. But its mere existence -- too great for randomness to excuse -- was met with wonder by those who study implicit association, a usually subconscious racial bias found in real estate sales, taxi pickups and other nonathletic areas.
 ''In sports, we can capture human behavior that is hard to quantify in other areas of society,'' said J. C. Bradbury, an economist at Kennesaw State University outside Atlanta. ''We can then ask questions like: Why is it there? Can we fix it?''
 Perhaps the most intriguing aspect of the baseball paper is its claim that the strike-calling variance was not present in games overseen by QuesTec -- the computerized camera system that M.L.B. uses in a dozen parks to scrutinize and improve umpire performance.
 ''The umpire knows he's going to be evaluated -- he behaves differently, apparently,'' Hamermesh said. Bradbury described it in the economic vernacular, ''When the price of discrimination is higher, you see less of it.''
 QuesTec's apparent influence did not seem to surprise Steve Trachsel, a veteran pitcher with the Baltimore Orioles. He said he had seen no difference in how white and black umpires called his pitches, but did say that QuesTec did alter umpire behavior.
 ''I've been told by the umpire that because there's QuesTec today, they can't give you that pitch,'' Trachsel said. ''You know what kind of zone you're going to have when QuesTec is there.''
 The paper on the umpires examined more than 2 million pitches thrown by starting pitchers from 2004 through 2006, during which only 38 percent of the games featured a team with the apparent benefit of having its pitcher match the race of the umpire while its opponent's did not. (Primarily, this occurred because 71 percent of the starting pitchers and 91 percent of the umpires were white.) Under such conditions, the team with the advantage received about one extra strike call a game.
 Did that strike matter? Very rarely, because it generally would need to come in a pivotal situation -- such as when the score was tied, or there was a man on base or the count was perhaps one ball and one strike and the difference between a ball and a strike would lead to a shift of 300 points in the average batter's on-base plus slugging percentage. A reasonable estimate is that a team enjoying 162 straight games of this advantage would win maybe one or two extra games.
 The discovery of mild bias is slightly different than the one regarding basketball fouls, Hamermesh said, because the nature and frequency of the umpires' decisions leads to a purer data set.
 ''Nothing absolutely requires a basketball official to make a foul call -- a lot of the time, the official can make no call at all,'' Hamermesh said. ''An umpire has to call a ball or a strike if the pitch isn't swung at. It removes a lot of the choice to not make a choice at all.''
 Hamermesh and his colleagues found that heightened scrutiny beyond QuesTec also appeared to dampen the ball-strike variance. It disappeared when the at-bat reached three balls or two strikes, a particularly pivotal state. It also decreased as the stadium grew more full, implying that the game was of larger significance.
 Over all, the variance was puny by the standards of other industries, by most accounts nothing over which to get one's double-knits in a twist. Unless, perhaps, you're Dontrelle Willis.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FELONIES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); RACE & RACISM (70%); ETHNICITY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (82%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); AUBURN UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%) GEORGIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



343 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; IDEA LAB; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: Counterfeit Nation

BYLINE: By STEPHEN MIHM. 
Stephen Mihm is the author of ''A Nation of Counterfeiters: Capitalists, Con Men and the Making of the United States,'' which will be published next month by Harvard University Press. He teaches history at the University of Georgia.

 BODY:
America's reliance on dubious credit goes all the way back to the country's founding.
 The recent rumbles and ruptures in the financial markets are finally making people reassess the dubious systems of credit that have arisen in the past few years. In retrospect, it seems clear that honest, tried-and-true ways of borrowing money were recklessly abandoned and replaced by financial legerdemain: black-box transactions, synthetic collateralized debt obligations, mezzanine tranches and credit-default swaps -- to cite just a few of the exotically named financial instruments now facing scrutiny. America's once-solid economy became a house of cards, a web of debt masquerading as wealth, a system crying out for correction. As one Wall Street banker quoted by The Financial Times concluded, the recent credit crunch suggests that things are finally ''returning to a more 'normal' level after 'abnormally' loose conditions over the past few years.'' 
 But what if the last few years of playing fast and loose with credit were not a deviation from the norm but a return to America's economic roots? Though it is hardly the sort of thing you read about in heroic histories of America's rise to economic greatness, the credit system in the United States has often been, in effect, a confidence game writ large, relying heavily on shaky paper promises, shell games and other trickery. The standard account would have you believe that the road to individual and national wealth was paved by hard-working, honest entrepreneurs who steered clear of get-rich-quick schemes, counterfeiters' printing presses and suckers' swindles. But for better and for worse, such shady institutions lie at the heart of the country's moneymaking past and, if recent events are any indication, its present.
 The very phrase ''making money'' had a curiously literal meaning in the years between the founding of the United States and the onset of the Civil War. Throughout that era -- a time before the federal government issued its own, exclusive paper money -- hundreds and eventually thousands of individual banks extended credit and conducted business by printing and circulating their own ''bank notes'' in denominations and designs of their choosing. Unlike today's currency, bank notes were promises to pay, not cool, hard cash. A bank issuing a note vowed to pay the stated amount in ''real'' money (gold or silver coin) if someone presented it for redemption at the bank's counter -- a promise that many banks failed to keep in times of panic. These slips of paper became the nation's de facto money supply, as well as the building blocks of the country's credit system.
 None of this sat well with an earlier generation of credit skeptics. John Adams, the former president, wrote in 1809 that ''every dollar of a bank bill that is issued beyond the quantity of silver and gold in the vaults represents nothing and is therefore a cheat upon somebody.'' But Adams, you might argue, was missing an important point: credit is by definition a contradictory creature. It depends on trust and confidence and yet invites the possibility of fraud or, at the very least, grave disappointment. In some deep, unsettling sense, credit depends on credulousness. Or to put the matter differently, credit depends on promises -- and promises, as the saying goes, are made to be broken.
 Broken promises came in many forms in that era of bewildering bank notes. Reputable banks often failed to meet their commitments in moments of panic or contraction. Even when times were good, some high-flying banks lent too many notes on the basis of too little capital and went under. More cynically, there were so-called wildcat banks, institutions deliberately founded in remote locations so as to frustrate the redemption of their notes. And most cynically, a thriving class of counterfeiters fed on the banking system. Sometimes they copied an existing bank's notes; other times, they took the logical next step and, like the bankers they imitated, established their own banks with plausible-sounding names, the notes of which they would pass as the genuine article -- which in a sense they were.
 All these moneymaking operations blurred the line between what was counterfeit and genuine. As the financial writer Hezekiah Niles observed in 1818, there was no real difference ''between a set of bank directors, who make and issue notes . . . which they deliberately promise to pay with a previous resolution not to pay, and a gang of fair, open, honest counterfeiters.''
 Niles was not merely being rhetorical. The erosion of the boundary between counterfeit and genuine currency was a day-to-day reality for everyone who handled money. There was no better symbol of this than the ubiquitous ''counterfeit detectors'' found on the desks and counters of merchants, bankers and storekeepers. These flimsy pamphlets, new versions of which were published every week or month, claimed to list every bank note in circulation, along with the rates of discount, known counterfeits, rumors of fraud and instability and difficult-to-decipher descriptions of the appearance of each and every note. When bank notes changed hands, both parties would generally huddle over a ''detector.'' After several minutes, a note might be declared genuine, counterfeit or merely dubious, in which case a discount might be levied. Yet often a bogus note was accepted with a knowing wink. As one detective would later recall, ''It was a popular remark among men of business at that time, that they preferred a good counterfeit on a solid bank to any genuine bill upon the 'shyster' institutions.''
 For all the fraud, the system worked. Between the Revolution and the Civil War, the nation's economy grew by leaps and bounds. The invidious comparisons between bankers and counterfeiters, though true, hinted at a still-deeper truth: America's citizens desperately needed and wanted money to realize their ambitions, and where the reputable banks fell short, counterfeiters and other shady moneymakers were more than willing to take up the slack, operating along a continuum that stretched from rock-solid banks to bona fide frauds.
 The contemporary observer who best captured the uneasy coexistence of credit and fraud was not an economist but a novelist. In his book ''The Confidence Man,'' Herman Melville offered a parable of the credit economy and the paradoxical forces that sustained it. Set aboard a steamboat drifting down the Mississippi River, the novel recounts the deceits and deceptions of a shape-shifting impostor who preys on the credulity of his fellow passengers, asking for their ''confidence'' in the form of loans or other acts of trust. Yet even as he defrauds his victims, he lectures them on the importance of extending credit. ''Confidence is the indispensable basis of all sorts of business transactions,'' the protagonist says. ''Without it, commerce between man and man, as between country and country, would, like a watch, run down and stop.'' Melville's rogue was on to something: what was creditworthy and what was fraudulent could easily turn out to be two sides of the same coin -- or rather the same bank note.
 The collapse of the distinction between legitimate and fraudulent means of making money can end badly. It certainly did in Niles's and Melville's day. Not long after Niles predicted that the nation's overextended banks would come to grief, a calamitous panic drove many lenders to break their paper promises; many of them went out of business entirely. Yet a few years later, the credit system was alive and well, and by the middle of the 1830s an era of wild land speculation was under way, with many more banks -- and countless counterfeiters -- pumping money into the economy. Things didn't turn out well then either: the panic of 1837 wiped out hundreds of banks, sinking the country into a brutal depression. Another speculative bubble 20 years later ended on a similarly catastrophic note.
 It was only during the Civil War that the relationship between the monetary system and the credit system began to change. At that point, the federal government entered the business of printing paper money, issuing a forerunner to today's greenback in order to pay for the war. Federal legislation taxed the older system of bank notes out of existence and left the government with the start of a monopoly over the money supply. And so began a halting, decadeslong evolution toward the money that we know and -- at least for the moment -- trust.
 But credit-driven capitalism did not disappear. The spirit of financial trickery assumed new incarnations in the succeeding century: the stock-market manipulator, the pyramid-scheme promoter. With the proliferation of no-doc mortgages, interest-only loans and a dizzying array of new financial instruments, there is ample proof that America remains in the broadest sense what Hezekiah Niles once described as ''a nation of counterfeiters.'' Genuine counterfeiters no longer lurk in every corner of the financial system, but a new crop of miscreants has fueled the boom: fraudulent real-estate appraisers, for example, and companies offering ''credit repair'' services that erase bad credit by ''borrowing'' someone else's more reputable history of paying his bills on time. Some of these practices are illegal; others are within the bounds of the law. The murky business of devising collateralized mortgage obligations, whereby subprime mortgages can be born again as new, lower-risk securities, is legal. Whether it is a good idea is another thing altogether.
 Perhaps the current wave of debt machinations will end badly. Then again, in the long run, it may not. Consider the impressions of another novelist, the British writer Frederick Marryat, who visited the United States in the wake of the panic of 1837. As he surveyed the wreckage of broken banks and worthless paper, he came to a surprising conclusion. ''If all the profits of the years of healthy credit were added up,'' he wrote, ''and the balance sheet struck between that and the loss at the explosion, the advantage gained by the credit system would still be found to be great. The advancement of America depends wholly upon it. It is by credit alone that she has made such rapid strides, and it is by credit alone that she can continue to flourish.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bank notes, like these, were often issued and then not honored.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY: TOP: NATIONAL NUMISMATIC COLLECTION, NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY. BOTTOM: Q. DAVID BOWERS, WHITMAN PUBLISHING.) (pg. MM15)
 The More scrupulous banks branded counterfeit notes to prevent their continued use. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM NATIONAL NUMISMATIC COLLECTION, NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY.)(pg. MM16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); COUNTERFEITING (86%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (71%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (68%); COINS & COINAGE (64%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



344 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: No Stomach for Risk? Maybe It's Time to Change Your Diet

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
MORTGAGE lenders aren't the only ones reassessing their appetite for risk. So, too, are equity investors, many of whom have been oblivious to the concept of risk in recent years, thanks to what had been a beneficent bull market.
 But the recent troubles in the subprime mortgage market have changed all that. 
 Rising mortgage delinquencies have roiled some hedge funds and institutional owners of mortgage-backed securities, and the equity markets have suffered sympathy pains -- leading to a drop that at its worst moment last week amounted to more than 1,100 points in the Dow Jones industrial average. 
 And last week, there was yet another round of hand-wringing on Wall Street as several mortgage companies had difficulty raising funds in the credit market. But on Friday, the Federal Reserve took action to ease some of those fears by lowering the discount rate, the interest rate that it charges for short-term bank loans, by half a percentage point. And the Fed said it was prepared to take further action if needed. Still, it's clear that stock investors have lowered their assessment of riskier investments, said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. There's still a question hanging over the market. ''It's whether this shift is aggressive enough and persistent enough to affect how this market cycle turns out,'' he said.
 While it's impossible to know whether this will turn out to be just another short-term scare -- like previous sell-offs, in late February and in May 2006 -- or if this is the start something bigger, investors would be wise to reassess their exposure to risk, financial planners say.
 That's because once the market loses its appetite for risky assets, investors ''tend to throw out the babies with the bath water,'' said Ronald W. Roge, a financial planner in Bohemia, N.Y. 
 Where are equity investors most vulnerable? Financial planners and market strategists point to at least three basic areas:
 SMALL-COMPANY STOCKS At the start of 2000, the typical retirement investor held $1 in small-capitalization stocks for every $16 invested in large, blue-chip shares, according to Hewitt Associates, the employee benefit research firm in Lincolnshire, Ill. But by July this year, that ratio had shrunk to just 1 to 3.6, as investors chased hot-performing small-cap stocks -- and as those shares grew faster than the broader market. 
 This portfolio allocation may be putting investors in a precarious position. ''The sword cuts both ways,'' said Greg Schultz, a principal at Asset Allocation Advisors, a financial planning firm in Walnut Creek, Calif. Though small-cap stocks tend to climb faster than blue chips in a market upswing, they also tend to lose ground more quickly in a market downturn. 
 Indeed, since the start of July, large stocks, as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, have fallen 3.8 percent while small stocks in the Russell 2000 have lost 5.7 percent.
 And there's another reason to fear overexposure to small stocks: many savings institutions -- those traditionally classified as savings and loans -- are small-cap companies, and many of them have been buffeted by the mortgage debacle. In fact, a recent analysis by Morningstar showed that while 67 percent of large-cap stock funds have some exposure to these savings institutions, 88 percent of small-cap funds are so exposed. And this financial industry group has been among the worst-performing so far this year, down nearly 18 percent, on average.
 FINANCIAL SECTOR STOCKS No sector of the economy is more vulnerable to the current mortgage crisis than the financial services industry. And no sector accounts for a larger slice of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. At the end of last year, financial companies represented a record 22.3 percent of the S.& P. 500. That was up from 7.5 percent at the end of 1990.
 To be sure, there was never a bubble in this sector, as there was in technology in the late 1990s. Indeed, financial stocks in the S.& P. 500 now trade at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than the broad market. That was certainly not the case for tech in 1999.
 But there is still a potential problem, if only because the sector represents such a wide swath of the market. If your domestic stock portfolio mimics the broad market, more than one-fifth of your holdings are in this sector just as this credit crisis is unfolding.
 ''I think it's going to be guilt by association,'' said Christopher Orndorff, head of equity strategy at Payden & Rygel, an asset manager in Los Angeles. ''Financial firms will be presumed guilty'' when it comes to their exposure to the subprime crisis until they prove themselves innocent, he said.
 Mr. Orndorff added: ''This is no time to go bargain-hunting in financials.''
 EMERGING-MARKET STOCKS Despite its lack of exposure to the domestic mortgage crisis, the average diversified emerging-market stock fund has lost 16.4 percent of its value over the past month. That's more than the average financial sector fund has lost. 
 That is to be expected, said James A. Shambo, a financial planner in Colorado Springs. ''Some folks will flee risk in general because they don't understand what's going on.''
 Mr. Shambo says he's not sure that the credit crunch means the end of investors' five-year love affair with emerging-market stocks. But eventually, he said, the performance of emerging-market stocks will slow and return to historical norms. And when that happens, the ''emerging markets will be affected in their own right.''
 Though emerging-market stock funds have produced enviable annualized gains of nearly 28 percent over the past five years, investors forget that these same funds lost money in five of the six years from 1997 to 2002.
 Now, the average investor in a 401(k) retirement plan holds only 1.3 percent of his or her assets in emerging-market equities. ''But the average can be very deceptive,'' said Pamela Hess, Hewitt's director of retirement research. 
 Of those 401(k) participants who invested any of their money in the emerging markets, Ms. Hess noted, the typical allocation is 16.4 percent, according to a study Hewitt conducted last year.
 In many cases, investors may have started with a much more modest exposure to emerging markets, she said. But by failing to rebalance their accounts in recent years, some investors allowed their allocations to this and other risky asset classes to explode.
 The concern is now this: Will those risky assets blow up investors' portfolios now that the market has a new-found aversion to risk? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); INTEREST RATES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); SUBPRIME LENDING (79%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (59%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (80%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) ILLINOIS, USA (75%); MINNESOTA, USA (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



345 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: The Source With No Name

BYLINE: By JACK SHAFER. 
Jack Shafer writes press criticism for Slate.

 BODY:
THE PRINCE OF DARKNESS
 50 Years Reporting in Washington.
 By Robert D. Novak.
 Illustrated. 662 pp. Crown Forum. $29.95.
In this sprawling memoir, the journalist Robert D. Novak feeds his keyboard more than five decades of newspaper clips, expense account filings and graying memory to chronicle his career as political reporter, syndicated columnist, television commentator and, finally, leading character in the outing of the C.I.A. officer Valerie Plame. As artless as it is fascinating, ''The Prince of Darkness'' dishes gossip and delivers payback to enemies for ancient slights; and on nearly every page it illustrates Novak's noisome journalistic methods.
 Unlike other members of the commentariat, Novak has always been more a reporter than a pundit. He learned the art of covering politics at The Associated Press, where he worked two state capitals before being promoted to the wire service's Washington bureau. From The A.P. he went to The Wall Street Journal and in 1963 left to partner with the preppy Georgetown insider Rowland Evans Jr. in their eponymous column. Upon Evans's retirement in 1993, Novak became the column's sole proprietor. He has reported from battlefronts in Vietnam, Nicaragua and Rhodesia, and visited China for a sit-down with Deng Xiaoping. 
 Because politics is a game of inches, much of political journalism is a game of inches. Competing with the news pages for scoops, Novak has learned to dress up the tiniest motion as the crashing of tectonic plates. The ''clearest, cleanest scoop ever on a big story'' Evans and Novak probably ever had, he writes, was being first to report that President Richard Nixon had chosen Representative Melvin R. Laird as his new secretary of defense. The ''greatest scoop of my career'' within the global financial community comes when he reports that a weakened Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker could now be outvoted by his board. Novak understands that many of his triumphs are perishable, minor things. ''That column, I am sure, generated yawns from most readers,'' he writes.
 And yet the news miniatures scudding through Novak's flat prose have attracted readers because he gets Washington to speak to itself through his column. That the tidbits come wrapped in his conservatism have proved no barrier to Novak's access or journalistic success. Donkeys and elephants both take their beatings.
 Although he is often lumped with other conservatives, Novak belongs to a party of one. He was born in 1931. His father, a utility company superintendent, steered him toward liberal Republicanism and away from unions, Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal. As a very young reporter, he deliberately committed voter fraud by casting two ballots for Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1956. He voted for John Kennedy in 1960, for Lyndon Johnson in 1964 and then for Richard Nixon -- reluctantly, he says -- in 1968.
 Novak writes that the bedrock of his conservativism has been anti-Communism, as well as a commitment to supply-side economics; he also supports free trade and liberal immigration policies. He blames television for turning him into a ''right-wing ideologue'' because appearing on CNN's ''Crossfire'' required him to express views on subjects he rarely wrote about, like capital punishment, gay rights, abortion and gun control. But his opposition to the Persian Gulf war of 1991, his doubts about invading Afghanistan and his criticism of the war in Iraq separate him from most conservatives.
 His idiosyncratic conservatism seems congenital, an expression of the lifelong pessimism that inspired a journalist friend to call him the ''prince of darkness'' in the early 1960s. Recalling his youth, Novak remembers being viewed as arrogant (what a surprise!). ''I am not a person who is easy for a lot of people to like,'' he writes, twice naming my former boss Michael Kinsley as one who scorns him. But he considers a sour disposition an asset, not a liability. ''No stirrer-up of strife is ever very popular,'' he says. 
 ''Little in Washington is on the level,'' Novak writes, but ''The Prince of Darkness'' reads convincingly because it's so unflattering to its author. He confesses to lying about the source of a memo to protect the leaker, of writing that Nixon's aide Charles Colson wouldn't comment for a story when Colson was the story's source and of shielding Jeane Kirkpatrick with the pronoun ''he'' to give her added anonymity. He regrets having neglected his family. Until a near-fatal case of spinal meningitis killed his taste for alcohol, he was a lush, drinking cocktails as fast as he could swizzle them and draining bottles of Scotch. (There's so much boozing in this book that it makes you thirsty.) In 1978, he was wagering $1,000 a day on sports (about $3,200 in today's money). ''I suppose I had a gambling problem to accompany my drinking problem,'' Novak writes, relying on understatement for perhaps the first time in his career.
 Novak has long denied operating a journalistic protection racket, but he testifies many times in his book to giving politicians the choice of being his source or his target. Evans and Novak were gentle with Alexander Haig because he was a longtime Evans source. Nixon's chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, ''was treated more harshly because he refused any connection with me. He made himself more of a target than he had to be by refusing to be a source.'' When David Gergen -- not someone simpatico with Novak -- leaks to him in 1981 from the Reagan White House, Novak figures it out. ''I think Gergen, the ultimate Washington survivor, was working the source-or-target model with me. Gergen never really became my source, but he was not my target either -- which I believe was his intent.'' 
 ''Journalists like to give the impression they develop exclusive stories through exhaustive investigation and research,'' Novak confides, but most scoops emerge after journalists have spent a lot of time with sources at fancy restaurants. When the source finally decides to sing, a good columnist knows where to find the microphone. (Imagine ants farming aphids for honeydew at Sans Souci, and you get the picture.)
 The Washington journalist-source relationship is ''symbiotic'' and ''built on self-interest,'' Novak says, and what a source list he has compiled! Russell Long, Everett Dirksen, Barry Goldwater, Bill Moyers, Lyndon Johnson, Eugene McCarthy, Hubert Humphrey, Robert S. Strauss, Melvin Laird, Wilbur Mills, the Nixon aides Bob Ellsworth and John Sears, William C. Sullivan (No. 3 at Hoover's F.B.I.), Jeb Magruder, Charles Colson, William S. Cohen, Trent Lott, Ken Clawson, Maureen Reagan, John Lehman, Richard Perle, W. Michael Blumenthal, James Baker, Edwin Meese, Donald Regan, Caspar Weinberger, James Watt, Martin Anderson, Lyn Nofziger, David Stockman, Jimmy Carter's speechwriter James Fallows, Elliott Abrams, John Sununu, Vin Weber, Dick Morris, Karl Rove (a ''grade A-plus source'') and William Kristol all get credit for feeding him.
 When a Novak source delivers, he really delivers. In 1971, according to Novak, the Nixon speechwriter William Safire -- who later became a New York Times columnist -- walked domestic intelligence documents from the White House to Novak's office, one block away. The handoff was made behind the building. A legislative assistant for Senator Jesse Helms, he says, provided Evans and Novak with a year's worth of classified documents.
 One problem with Novak-style scoop journalism is that reporters don't always know what's in the water they're carrying. In spring 1972, the Nixon aide Jeb Magruder showed Novak a White House ''internal memo'' at Sans Souci that threatened to move that year's Republican National Convention from San Diego to Miami Beach unless the city got its act together. The Evans and Novak ''scoop'' sourced the memo to the ''habitually secretive Nixon men.'' In his 1974 book, ''An American Life,'' Magruder crowed that ''my talk with Novak resulted in a column that said exactly what we hoped it would say.'' He leaked to the pair for maximum impact and to make it appear as if the administration was unhappy with San Diego when what it actually feared was large antiwar demonstrations that local authorities couldn't control.
 ''I had been used,'' Novak writes, with what appears to be genuine shock. ''Nixon had cracked the code on Evans and Novak. We were so ravenous for exclusive news that we were susceptible to manipulations by leaks, compromising our credibility. I am surprised other politicians did not use this technique and surprised Nixon used it so seldom.'' 
 Cracked the code? Did Novak not read his own book as he composed it? As he knows, few leaks to journalists are unadulterated whistleblowing. Sources usually have motives, often ulterior, and the competent journalist finds a way to tease out real news when publishing self-serving tips like Magruder's.
 It would make for a neat conclusion to this review if another ''code-cracker'' were behind Novak's publication of Valerie Plame's C.I.A. identity. Some liberals accused Novak of actively conspiring with the Bush administration to punish Ambassador Joseph C. Wilson IV, a critic of its Iraq policy, by publishing the name and occupation of his wife in a July 2003 column. If he hadn't been part of the conspiracy, they say, he was its dupe.
 But Novak protests that he learned her identity from Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage. ''I am sure it was not a planned leak,'' Novak insists. He makes a credible case that his aim in writing the column was to examine the logic of the C.I.A.'s sending Wilson, whom he considers an intelligence lightweight, to Niger on the yellowcake fact-finding mission. Novak writes that he thought the Wilson trip may well have been designed by the agency to undermine the Bush administration. Supporting that claim is the oddly understated manner in which the Plame information pops up in Novak's column. If Armitage's leak was a bomb directed at Wilson, Novak turned it into a bit of a dud.
 Journalism is the first rough draft of history, Philip Graham, the publisher of The Washington Post, once said. Many Novak columns -- including the Plame piece -- are first rough drafts of journalism; they require further assembly by readers. While other writers concentrate on the arteries of power, Novak has made a specialty of the capillaries. Still, his book is an enlightening field guide to the politicians and journalists who inhabit those micro places. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Color Me Bad: Joe Andoe's memoir of sex, drugs and finding redemption through fine art.
''Girl With Remote,'' 2004. Pearlstine tries to answer a basic question: Do the news media have a right to keep their sources secret?
 Scoop!: The columnist Robert Novak describes his career and his modus operandi. (Photographs by Joe Andoe) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (63%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2007



346 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 7906 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of God

BYLINE: By MARK LILLA. 
Mark Lilla is professor of the humanities at Columbia University. This essay is adapted from his book ''The Stillborn God: Religion, Politics and the Modern West,'' which will be published next month.

 BODY:
I. ''The Will of God Will Prevail''
 The twilight of the idols has been postponed. For more than two centuries, from the American and French Revolutions to the collapse of Soviet Communism, world politics revolved around eminently political problems. War and revolution, class and social justice, race and national identity -- these were the questions that divided us. Today, we have progressed to the point where our problems again resemble those of the 16th century, as we find ourselves entangled in conflicts over competing revelations, dogmatic purity and divine duty. We in the West are disturbed and confused. Though we have our own fundamentalists, we find it incomprehensible that theological ideas still stir up messianic passions, leaving societies in ruin. We had assumed this was no longer possible, that human beings had learned to separate religious questions from political ones, that fanaticism was dead. We were wrong. 
 An example: In May of last year, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran sent an open letter to President George W. Bush that was translated and published in newspapers around the world. Its theme was contemporary politics and its language that of divine revelation. After rehearsing a litany of grievances against American foreign policies, real and imagined, Ahmadinejad wrote, ''If Prophet Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Ishmael, Joseph or Jesus Christ (peace be upon him) were with us today, how would they have judged such behavior?'' This was not a rhetorical question. ''I have been told that Your Excellency follows the teachings of Jesus (peace be upon him) and believes in the divine promise of the rule of the righteous on Earth,'' Ahmadinejad continued, reminding his fellow believer that ''according to divine verses, we have all been called upon to worship one God and follow the teachings of divine Prophets.'' There follows a kind of altar call, in which the American president is invited to bring his actions into line with these verses. And then comes a threatening prophecy: ''Liberalism and Western-style democracy have not been able to help realize the ideals of humanity. Today, these two concepts have failed. Those with insight can already hear the sounds of the shattering and fall of the ideology and thoughts of the liberal democratic systems. . . . Whether we like it or not, the world is gravitating towards faith in the Almighty and justice and the will of God will prevail over all things.''
 This is the language of political theology, and for millennia it was the only tongue human beings had for expressing their thoughts about political life. It is primordial, but also contemporary: countless millions still pursue the age-old quest to bring the whole of human life under God's authority, and they have their reasons. To understand them we need only interpret the language of political theology -- yet that is what we find hardest to do. Reading a letter like Ahmadinejad's, we fall mute, like explorers coming upon an ancient inscription written in hieroglyphics.
 The problem is ours, not his. A little more than two centuries ago we began to believe that the West was on a one-way track toward modern secular democracy and that other societies, once placed on that track, would inevitably follow. Though this has not happened, we still maintain our implicit faith in a modernizing process and blame delays on extenuating circumstances like poverty or colonialism. This assumption shapes the way we see political theology, especially in its Islamic form -- as an atavism requiring psychological or sociological analysis but not serious intellectual engagement. Islamists, even if they are learned professionals, appear to us primarily as frustrated, irrational representatives of frustrated, irrational societies, nothing more. We live, so to speak, on the other shore. When we observe those on the opposite bank, we are puzzled, since we have only a distant memory of what it was like to think as they do. We all face the same questions of political existence, yet their way of answering them has become alien to us. On one shore, political institutions are conceived in terms of divine authority and spiritual redemption; on the other they are not. And that, as Robert Frost might have put it, makes all the difference.
 Understanding this difference is the most urgent intellectual and political task of the present time. But where to begin? The case of contemporary Islam is on everyone's mind, yet is so suffused with anger and ignorance as to be paralyzing. All we hear are alien sounds, motivating unspeakable acts. If we ever hope to crack the grammar and syntax of political theology, it seems we will have to begin with ourselves. The history of political theology in the West is an instructive story, and it did not end with the birth of modern science, or the Enlightenment, or the American and French Revolutions, or any other definitive historical moment. Political theology was a presence in Western intellectual life well into the 20th century, by which time it had shed the mind-set of the Middle Ages and found modern reasons for seeking political inspiration in the Bible. At first, this modern political theology expressed a seemingly enlightened outlook and was welcomed by those who wished liberal democracy well. But in the aftermath of the First World War it took an apocalyptic turn, and ''new men'' eager to embrace the future began generating theological justifications for the most repugnant -- and godless -- ideologies of the age, Nazism and Communism.
 It is an unnerving tale, one that raises profound questions about the fragility of our modern outlook. Even the most stable and successful democracies, with the most high-minded and civilized believers, have proved vulnerable to political messianism and its theological justification. If we can understand how that was possible in the advanced West, if we can hear political theology speaking in a more recognizable tongue, represented by people in familiar dress with familiar names, perhaps then we can remind ourselves how the world looks from its perspective. This would be a small step toward measuring the challenge we face and deciding how to respond.
 II. The Great Separation
 Why is there political theology? The question echoes throughout the history of Western thought, beginning in Greek and Roman antiquity and continuing down to our day. Many theories have been proposed, especially by those suspicious of the religious impulse. Yet few recognize the rationality of political theology or enter into its logic. Theology is, after all, a set of reasons people give themselves for the way things are and the way they ought to be. So let us try to imagine how those reasons might involve God and have implications for politics.
 Imagine human beings who first become aware of themselves in a world not of their own making. Their world has unknown origins and behaves in a regular fashion, so they wonder why that is. They know that the things they themselves fashion behave in a predictable manner because they conceive and construct them with some end in mind. They stretch the bow, the arrow flies; that is why they were made. So, by analogy, it is not difficult for them to assume that the cosmic order was constructed for a purpose, reflecting its maker's will. By following this analogy, they begin to have ideas about that maker, about his intentions and therefore about his personality.
 In taking these few short steps, the human mind finds itself confronted with a picture, a theological image in which God, man and world form a divine nexus. Believers have reasons for thinking that they live in this nexus, just as they have reasons for assuming that it offers guidance for political life. But how that guidance is to be understood, and whether believers think it is authoritative, will depend on how they imagine God. If God is thought to be passive, a silent force like the sky, nothing in particular may follow. He is a hypothesis we can do without. But if we take seriously the thought that God is a person with intentions, and that the cosmic order is a result of those intentions, then a great deal can follow. The intentions of such a God reveal something man cannot fully know on his own. This revelation then becomes the source of his authority, over nature and over us, and we have no choice but to obey him and see that his plans are carried out on earth. That is where political theology comes in.
 One powerful attraction of political theology, in any form, is its comprehensiveness. It offers a way of thinking about the conduct of human affairs and connects those thoughts to loftier ones about the existence of God, the structure of the cosmos, the nature of the soul, the origin of all things and the end of time. For more than a millennium, the West took inspiration from the Christian image of a triune God ruling over a created cosmos and guiding men by means of revelation, inner conviction and the natural order. It was a magnificent picture that allowed a magnificent and powerful civilization to flower. But the picture was always difficult to translate theologically into political form: God the Father had given commandments; a Redeemer arrived, reinterpreting them, then departed; and now the Holy Spirit remained as a ghostly divine presence. It was not at all clear what political lessons were to be drawn from all this. Were Christians supposed to withdraw from a corrupted world that was abandoned by the Redeemer? Were they called upon to rule the earthly city with both church and state, inspired by the Holy Spirit? Or were they expected to build a New Jerusalem that would hasten the Messiah's return?
 Throughout the Middle Ages, Christians argued over these questions. The City of Man was set against the City of God, public citizenship against private piety, the divine right of kings against the right of resistance, church authority against radical antinomianism, canon law against mystical insight, inquisitor against martyr, secular sword against ecclesiastical miter, prince against emperor, emperor against pope, pope against church councils. In the late Middle Ages, the sense of crisis was palpable, and even the Roman Church recognized that reforms were in order. But by the 16th century, thanks to Martin Luther and John Calvin, there was no unified Christendom to reform, just a variety of churches and sects, most allied with absolute secular rulers eager to assert their independence. In the Wars of Religion that followed, doctrinal differences fueled political ambitions and vice versa, in a deadly, vicious cycle that lasted a century and a half. Christians addled by apocalyptic dreams hunted and killed Christians with a maniacal fury they had once reserved for Muslims, Jews and heretics. It was madness.
 The English philosopher Thomas Hobbes tried to find a way out of this labyrinth. Traditionally, political theology had interpreted a set of revealed divine commands and applied them to social life. In his great treatise ''Leviathan'' (1651), Hobbes simply ignored the substance of those commands and talked instead about how and why human beings believed God revealed them. He did the most revolutionary thing a thinker can ever do -- he changed the subject, from God and his commands to man and his beliefs. If we do that, Hobbes reasoned, we can begin to understand why religious convictions so often lead to political conflicts and then perhaps find a way to contain the potential for violence.
 The contemporary crisis in Western Christendom created an audience for Hobbes and his ideas. In the midst of religious war, his view that the human mind was too weak and beset by passions to have any reliable knowledge of the divine seemed common-sensical. It also made sense to assume that when man speaks about God he is really referring to his own experience, which is all he knows. And what most characterizes his experience? According to Hobbes, fear. Man's natural state is to be overwhelmed with anxiety, ''his heart all the day long gnawed on by fear of death, poverty, or other calamity.'' He ''has no repose, nor pause of his anxiety, but in sleep.'' It is no wonder that human beings fashion idols to protect themselves from what they most fear, attributing divine powers even, as Hobbes wrote, to ''men, women, a bird, a crocodile, a calf, a dog, a snake, an onion, a leek.'' Pitiful, but understandable.
 And the debilitating dynamics of belief don't end there. For once we imagine an all-powerful God to protect us, chances are we'll begin to fear him too. What if he gets angry? How can we appease him? Hobbes reasoned that these new religious fears were what created a market for priests and prophets claiming to understand God's obscure demands. It was a raucous market in Hobbes's time, with stalls for Roman Catholics, Anglicans, Lutherans, Calvinists, Anabaptists, Quakers, Ranters, Muggletonians, Fifth Monarchy Men and countless others, each with his own path to salvation and blueprint for Christian society. They disagreed with one another, and because their very souls were at stake, they fought. Which led to wars; which led to more fear; which made people more religious; which. . . .
 Fresh from the Wars of Religion, Hobbes's readers knew all about fear. Their lives had become, as he put it, ''solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short.'' And when he announced that a new political philosophy could release them from fear, they listened. Hobbes planted a seed, a thought that it might be possible to build legitimate political institutions without grounding them on divine revelation. He knew it was impossible to refute belief in divine revelation; the most one can hope to do is cast suspicion on prophets claiming to speak about politics in God's name. The new political thinking would no longer concern itself with God's politics; it would concentrate on men as believers in God and try to keep them from harming one another. It would set its sights lower than Christian political theology had, but secure what mattered most, which was peace.
 Hobbes was neither a liberal nor a democrat. He thought that consolidating power in the hands of one man was the only way to relieve citizens of their mutual fears. But over the next few centuries, Western thinkers like John Locke, who adopted his approach, began to imagine a new kind of political order in which power would be limited, divided and widely shared; in which those in power at one moment would relinquish it peacefully at another, without fear of retribution; in which public law would govern relations among citizens and institutions; in which many different religions would be allowed to flourish, free from state interference; and in which individuals would have inalienable rights to protect them from government and their fellows. This liberal-democratic order is the only one we in the West recognize as legitimate today, and we owe it primarily to Hobbes. In order to escape the destructive passions of messianic faith, political theology centered on God was replaced by political philosophy centered on man. This was the Great Separation.
 III. The Inner Light
 It is a familiar story, and seems to conclude with a happy ending. But in truth the Great Separation was never a fait accompli, even in Western Europe, where it was first conceived. Old-style Christian political theology had an afterlife in the West, and only after the Second World War did it cease to be a political force. In the 19th and early 20th centuries a different challenge to the Great Separation arose from another quarter. It came from a wholly new kind of political theology heavily indebted to philosophy and styling itself both modern and liberal. I am speaking of the ''liberal theology'' movement that arose in Germany not long after the French Revolution, first among Protestant theologians, then among Jewish reformers. These thinkers, who abhorred theocracy, also rebelled against Hobbes's vision, favoring instead a political future in which religion -- properly chastened and intellectually reformed -- would play an absolutely central role.
 And the questions they posed were good ones. While granting that ignorance and fear had bred pointless wars among Christian sects and nations, they asked: Were those the only reasons that, for a millennium and a half, an entire civilization had looked to Jesus Christ as its savior? Or that suffering Jews of the Diaspora remained loyal to the Torah? Could ignorance and fear explain the beauty of Christian liturgical music or the sublimity of the Gothic cathedrals? Could they explain why all other civilizations, past and present, founded their political institutions in accordance with the divine nexus of God, man and world? Surely there was more to religious man than was dreamed of in Hobbes's philosophy.
 That certainly was the view of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who did more than anyone to develop an alternative to Hobbes. Rousseau wrote no treatise on religion, which was probably a wise thing, since when he inserted a few pages on religious themes into his masterpiece, ''Amile'' (1762), it caused the book to be burned and Rousseau to spend the rest of his life on the run. This short section of ''Amile,'' which he called ''The Profession of Faith of the Savoyard Vicar,'' has so deeply shaped contemporary views of religion that it takes some effort to understand why Rousseau was persecuted for writing it. It is the most beautiful and convincing defense of man's religious instincts ever to flow from a modern pen -- and that, apparently, was the problem. Rousseau spoke of religion in terms of human needs, not divine truths, and had his Savoyard vicar declare, ''I believe all particular religions are good when one serves God usefully in them.'' For that, he was hounded by pious Christians.
 Rousseau had a Hobbes problem, too: he shared the Englishman's criticisms of theocracy, fanaticism and the clergy, but he was a friend of religion. While Hobbes beat the drums of ignorance and fear, Rousseau sang the praises of conscience, of charity, of fellow feeling, of virtue, of pious wonder in the face of God's creation. Human beings, he thought, have a natural goodness they express in their religion. That is the theme of the ''Profession of Faith,'' which tells the parable of a young vicar who loses his faith and then his moral compass once confronted with the hypocrisy of his co-religionists. He is able to restore his equilibrium only when he finds a new kind of faith in God by looking within, to his own ''inner light'' (lumiere interieure). The point of Rousseau's story is less to display the crimes of organized churches than to show that man yearns for religion because he is fundamentally a moral creature. There is much we cannot know about God, and for centuries the pretense of having understood him caused much damage to Christendom. But, for Rousseau, we need to believe something about him if we are to orient ourselves in the world.
 Among modern thinkers, Rousseau was the first to declare that there is no shame in saying that faith in God is humanly necessary. Religion has its roots in needs that are rational and moral, even noble; once we see that, we can start satisfying them rationally, morally and nobly. In the abstract, this thought did not contradict the principles of the Great Separation, which gave reasons for protecting the private exercise of religion. But it did raise doubts about whether the new political thinking could really do without reference to the nexus of God, man and world. If Rousseau was right about our moral needs, a rigid separation between political and theological principles might not be psychologically sustainable. When a question is important, we want an answer to it: as the Savoyard vicar remarks, ''The mind decides in one way or another, despite itself, and prefers being mistaken to believing in nothing.'' Rousseau had grave doubts about whether human beings could be happy or good if they did not understand how their actions related to something higher. Religion is simply too entwined with our moral experience ever to be disentangled from it, and morality is inseparable from politics.
 IV. Rousseau's Children
 By the early 19th century, two schools of thought about religion and politics had grown up in the West. Let us call them the children of Hobbes and the children of Rousseau. For the children of Hobbes, a decent political life could not be realized by Christian political theology, which bred violence and stifled human development. The only way to control the passions flowing from religion to politics, and back again, was to detach political life from them completely. This had to happen within Western institutions, but first it had to happen within Western minds. A reorientation would have to take place, turning human attention away from the eternal and transcendent, toward the here and now. The old habit of looking to God for political guidance would have to be broken, and new habits developed. For Hobbes, the first step toward achieving that end was to get people thinking about -- and suspicious about -- the sources of faith.
 Though there was great reluctance to adopt Hobbes's most radical views on religion, in the English-speaking world the intellectual principles of the Great Separation began to take hold in the 18th century. Debate would continue over where exactly to place the line between religious and political institutions, but arguments about the legitimacy of theocracy petered out in all but the most forsaken corners of the public square. There was no longer serious controversy about the relation between the political order and the divine nexus; it ceased to be a question. No one in modern Britain or the United States argued for a bicameral legislature on the basis of divine revelation.
 The children of Rousseau followed a different line of argument. Medieval political theology was not salvageable, but neither could human beings ignore questions of eternity and transcendence when thinking about the good life. When we speculate about God, man and world in the correct way, we express our noblest moral sentiments; without such reflection we despair and eventually harm ourselves and others. That is the lesson of the Savoyard vicar.
 In the aftermath of the French Revolution, the Terror and Napoleon's conquests, Rousseau's children found a receptive audience in continental Europe. The recent wars had had nothing to do with political theology or religious fanaticism of the old variety; if anything, people reasoned, it was the radical atheism of the French Enlightenment that turned men into beasts and bred a new species of political fanatic. Germans were especially drawn to this view, and a wave of romanticism brought with it great nostalgia for the religious ''world we have lost.'' It even touched sober philosophers like Immanuel Kant and G. W. F. Hegel. Kant adored ''Amile'' and went somewhat further than Rousseau had, not only accepting the moral need for rational faith but arguing that Christianity, properly reformed, would represent the ''true universal Church'' and embody the very ''idea'' of religion. Hegel went further still, attributing to religion an almost vitalistic power to forge the social bond and encourage sacrifice for the public good. Religion, and religion alone, is the original source of a people's shared spirit, which Hegel called its Volksgeist.
 These ideas had an enormous impact on German religious thought in the 19th century, and through it on Protestantism and Judaism throughout the West. This was the century of ''liberal theology,'' a term that requires explanation. In modern Britain and the United States, it was assumed that the intellectual, and then institutional, separation of Christianity and modern politics had been mutually beneficial -- that the modern state had benefited by being absolved from pronouncing on doctrinal matters, and that Christianity had benefited by being freed from state interference. No such consensus existed in Germany, where the assumption was that religion needed to be publicly encouraged, not reined in, if it was to contribute to society. It would have to be rationally reformed, of course: the Bible would have to be interpreted in light of recent historical findings, belief in miracles abandoned, the clergy educated along modern lines and doctrine adapted to a softer age. But once these reforms were in place, enlightened politics and enlightened religion would join hands.
 Protestant liberal theologians soon began to dream of a third way between Christian orthodoxy and the Great Separation. They had unshaken faith in the moral core of Christianity, however distorted it may have been by the forces of history, and unshaken faith in the cultural and political progress that Christianity had brought to the world. Christianity had given birth to the values of individuality, moral universalism, reason and progress on which German life was now based. There could be no contradiction between religion and state, or even tension. The modern state had only to give Protestantism its due in public life, and Protestant theology would reciprocate by recognizing its political responsibilities. If both parties met their obligations, then, as the philosopher F. W. J. Schelling put it, ''the destiny of Christianity will be decided in Germany.''
 Among Jewish liberal thinkers, there was a different sort of hope, that of acceptance as equal citizens. After the French Revolution, a fitful process of Jewish emancipation began in Europe, and German Jews were more quickly integrated into modern cultural life than in any other European country -- a fateful development. For it was precisely at this moment that German Protestants were becoming convinced that reformed Christianity represented their national Volksgeist. While the liberal Jewish thinkers were attracted to modern enlightened faith, they were also driven by the apologetic need to justify Judaism's contribution to German society. They could not appeal to the principles of the Great Separation and simply demand to be left alone. They had to argue that Judaism and Protestantism were two forms of the same rational moral faith, and that they could share a political theology. As the Jewish philosopher and liberal reformer Hermann Cohen once put it, ''In all intellectual questions of religion we think and feel ourselves in a Protestant spirit.''
 V. Courting the Apocalypse
 This was the house that liberal theology built, and throughout the 19th century it looked secure. It wasn't, and for reasons worth pondering. Liberal theology had begun in hope that the moral truths of biblical faith might be intellectually reconciled with, and not just accommodated to, the realities of modern political life. Yet the liberal deity turned out to be a stillborn God, unable to inspire genuine conviction among a younger generation seeking ultimate truth. For what did the new Protestantism offer the soul of one seeking union with his creator? It prescribed a catechism of moral commonplaces and historical optimism about bourgeois life, spiced with deep pessimism about the possibility of altering that life. It preached good citizenship and national pride, economic good sense and the proper length of a gentleman's beard. But it was too ashamed to proclaim the message found on every page of the Gospels: that you must change your life. And what did the new Judaism bring to a young Jew seeking a connection with the traditional faith of his people? It taught him to appreciate the ethical message at the core of all biblical faith and passed over in genteel silence the fearsome God of the prophets, his covenant with the Jewish people and the demanding laws he gave them. Above all, it taught a young Jew that his first obligation was to seek common ground with Christianity and find acceptance in the one nation, Germany, whose highest cultural ideals matched those of Judaism, properly understood. To the decisive questions -- ''Why be a Christian?'' and ''Why be a Jew?'' -- liberal theology offered no answer at all.
 By the turn of the 20th century, the liberal house was tottering, and after the First World War it collapsed. It was not just the barbarity of trench warfare, the senseless slaughter, the sight of burned-out towns and maimed soldiers that made a theology extolling ''modern civilization'' contemptible. It was that so many liberal theologians had hastened the insane rush to war, confident that God's hand was guiding history. In August 1914, Adolf von Harnack, the most respected liberal Protestant scholar of the age, helped Kaiser Wilhelm II draft an address to the nation laying out German military aims. Others signed an infamous pro-war petition defending the sacredness of German militarism. Astonishingly, even Hermann Cohen joined the chorus, writing an open letter to American Jews asking for support, on the grounds that ''next to his fatherland, every Western Jew must recognize, revere and love Germany as the motherland of his modern religiosity.'' Young Protestant and Jewish thinkers were outraged when they saw what their revered teachers had done, and they began to look elsewhere.
 But they did not turn to Hobbes, or to Rousseau. They craved a more robust faith, based on a new revelation that would shake the foundations of the whole modern order. It was a thirst for redemption. Ever since the liberal theologians had revived the idea of biblical politics, the stage had been set for just this sort of development. When faith in redemption through bourgeois propriety and cultural accommodation withered after the Great War, the most daring thinkers of the day transformed it into hope for a messianic apocalypse -- one that would again place the Jewish people, or the individual Christian believer, or the German nation, or the world proletariat in direct relation with the divine.
 Young Weimar Jews were particularly drawn to these messianic currents through the writings of Martin Buber, who later became a proponent of interfaith understanding but as a young Zionist promoted a crude chauvinistic nationalism. In an early essay he called for a ''Masada of the spirit'' and proclaimed: ''If I had to choose for my people between a comfortable, unproductive happiness . . . and a beautiful death in a final effort at life, I would have to choose the latter. For this final effort would create something divine, if only for a moment, but the other something all too human.'' Language like this, with strong and discomforting contemporary echoes for us, drew deeply from the well of biblical messianism. Yet Buber was an amateur compared with the Marxist philosopher Ernst Bloch, who used the Bible to extol the utopia then under construction in the Soviet Union. Though an atheist Jew, Bloch saw a connection between messianic hope and revolutionary violence, which he admired from a distance. He celebrated Thomas MA1/4ntzer, the 16th-century Protestant pastor who led bloody peasant uprisings and was eventually beheaded; he also praised the brutal Soviet leaders, famously declaring ''ubi Lenin, ibi Jerusalem'' -- wherever Lenin is, there is Jerusalem.
 But it was among young Weimar Protestants that the new messianic spirit proved most consequential. They were led by the greatest theologian of the day, Karl Barth, who wanted to restore the drama of religious decision to Christianity and rejected any accommodation of the Gospel to modern sensibilities. When Hitler came to power, Barth acquitted himself well, leading resistance against the Nazi takeover of the Protestant churches before he was forced into exile in 1935. But others, who employed the same messianic rhetoric Barth did, chose the Nazis instead. A notorious example was Emanuel Hirsch, a respected Lutheran theologian and translator of Kierkegaard, who welcomed the Nazi seizure of power for bringing Germany into ''the circle of the white ruling peoples, to which God has entrusted the responsibility for the history of humanity.'' Another was Friedrich Gogarten, one of Barth's closest collaborators, who sided with the Nazis in the summer of 1933 (a decision he later regretted). In the 1920s, Gogarten rejoiced at the collapse of bourgeois Europe, declaring that ''we are glad for the decline, since no one enjoys living among corpses,'' and called for a new religion that ''attacks culture as culture . . . that attacks the whole world.'' When the brownshirts began marching and torching books, he got his wish. After Hitler completed his takeover, Gogarten wrote that ''precisely because we are today once again under the total claim of the state, it is again possible, humanly speaking, to proclaim the Christ of the Bible and his reign over us.''
 All of which served to confirm Hobbes's iron law: Messianic theology eventually breeds messianic politics. The idea of redemption is among the most powerful forces shaping human existence in all those societies touched by the biblical tradition. It has inspired people to endure suffering, overcome suffering and inflict suffering on others. It has offered hope and inspiration in times of darkness; it has also added to the darkness by arousing unrealistic expectations and justifying those who spill blood to satisfy them. All the biblical religions cultivate the idea of redemption, and all fear its power to inflame minds and deafen them to the voice of reason. In the writings of these Weimar figures, we encounter what those orthodox traditions always dreaded: the translation of religious notions of apocalypse and redemption into a justification of political messianism, now under frightening modern conditions. It was as if nothing had changed since the 17th century, when Thomas Hobbes first sat down to write his ''Leviathan.''
 VI. Miracles
 The revival of political theology in the modern West is a humbling story. It reminds us that this way of thinking is not the preserve of any one culture or religion, nor does it belong solely to the past. It is an age-old habit of mind that can be reacquired by anyone who begins looking to the divine nexus of God, man and world to reveal the legitimate political order. This story also reminds us how political theology can be adapted to circumstances and reassert itself, even in the face of seemingly irresistible forces like modernization, secularization and democratization. Rousseau was on to something: we seem to be theotropic creatures, yearning to connect our mundane lives, in some way, to the beyond. That urge can be suppressed, new habits learned, but the challenge of political theology will never fully disappear so long as the urge to connect survives.
 So we are heirs to the Great Separation only if we wish to be, if we make a conscious effort to separate basic principles of political legitimacy from divine revelation. Yet more is required still. Since the challenge of political theology is enduring, we need to remain aware of its logic and the threat it poses. This means vigilance, but even more it means self-awareness. We must never forget that there was nothing historically inevitable about our Great Separation, that it was and remains an experiment. In Europe, the political ambiguities of one religion, Christianity, happened to set off a political crisis that might have been avoided but wasn't, triggering the Wars of Religion; the resulting carnage made European thinkers more receptive to Hobbes's heretical ideas about religious psychology and the political implications he drew from them; and over time those political ideas were liberalized. Even then, it was only after the Second World War that the principles of modern liberal democracy became fully rooted in continental Europe.
 As for the American experience, it is utterly exceptional: there is no other fully developed industrial society with a population so committed to its faiths (and such exotic ones), while being equally committed to the Great Separation. Our political rhetoric, which owes much to the Protestant sectarians of the 17th century, vibrates with messianic energy, and it is only thanks to a strong constitutional structure and various lucky breaks that political theology has never seriously challenged the basic legitimacy of our institutions. Americans have potentially explosive religious differences over abortion, prayer in schools, censorship, euthanasia, biological research and countless other issues, yet they generally settle them within the bounds of the Constitution. It's a miracle.
 And miracles can't be willed. For all the good Hobbes did in shifting our political focus from God to man, he left the impression that the challenge of political theology would vanish once the cycle of fear was broken and human beings established authority over their own affairs. We still make this assumption when speaking of the ''social causes'' of fundamentalism and political messianism, as if the amelioration of material conditions or the shifting of borders would automatically trigger a Great Separation. Nothing in our history or contemporary experience confirms this belief, yet somehow we can't let it go. We have learned Hobbes's lesson too well, and failed to heed Rousseau's. And so we find ourselves in an intellectual bind when we encounter genuine political theology today: either we assume that modernization and secularization will eventually extinguish it, or we treat it as an incomprehensible existential threat, using familiar terms like fascism to describe it as best we can. Neither response takes us a step closer to understanding the world we now live in.
 It is a world in which millions of people, particularly in the Muslim orbit, believe that God has revealed a law governing the whole of human affairs. This belief shapes the politics of important Muslim nations, and it also shapes the attitudes of vast numbers of believers who find themselves living in Western countries -- and non-Western democracies like Turkey and Indonesia -- founded on the alien principles of the Great Separation. These are the most significant points of friction, internationally and domestically. And we cannot really address them if we do not first recognize the intellectual chasm between us: although it is possible to translate Ahmadinejad's letter to Bush from Farsi into English, its intellectual assumptions cannot be translated into those of the Great Separation. We can try to learn his language in order to create sensible policies, but agreement on basic principles won't be possible. And we must learn to live with that.
 Similarly, we must somehow find a way to accept the fact that, given the immigration policies Western nations have pursued over the last half-century, they now are hosts to millions of Muslims who have great difficulty fitting into societies that do not recognize any political claims based on their divine revelation. Like Orthodox Jewish law, the Muslim Shariah is meant to cover the whole of life, not some arbitrarily demarcated private sphere, and its legal system has few theological resources for establishing the independence of politics from detailed divine commands. It is an unfortunate situation, but we have made our bed, Muslims and non-Muslims alike. Accommodation and mutual respect can help, as can clear rules governing areas of tension, like the status of women, parents' rights over their children, speech offensive to religious sensibilities, speech inciting violence, standards of dress in public institutions and the like. Western countries have adopted different strategies for coping, some forbidding religious symbols like the head scarf in schools, others permitting them. But we need to recognize that coping is the order of the day, not defending high principle, and that our expectations should remain low. So long as a sizable population believes in the truth of a comprehensive political theology, its full reconciliation with modern liberal democracy cannot be expected.
 VII. The Opposite Shore
 This is not welcome news. For more than two centuries, promoters of modernization have taken it for granted that science, technology, urbanization and education would eventually ''disenchant'' the charmed world of believers, and that with time people would either abandon their traditional faiths or transform them in politically anodyne ways. They point to continental Europe, where belief in God has been in steady decline over the last 50 years, and suggest that, with time, Muslims everywhere will undergo a similar transformation. Those predictions may eventually prove right. But Europe's rapid secularization is historically unique and, as we have just seen, relatively recent. Political theology is highly adaptive and can present to even educated minds a more compelling vision of the future than the prospect of secular modernity. It takes as little for a highly trained medical doctor to fashion a car bomb today as it took for advanced thinkers to fashion biblically inspired justifications of fascist and communist totalitarianism in Weimar Germany. When the urge to connect is strong, passions are high and fantasies are vivid, the trinkets of our modern lives are impotent amulets against political intoxication.
 Realizing this, a number of Muslim thinkers around the world have taken to promoting a ''liberal'' Islam. What they mean is an Islam more adapted to the demands of modern life, kinder in its treatment of women and children, more tolerant of other faiths, more open to dissent. These are brave people who have often suffered for their efforts, in prison or exile, as did their predecessors in the 19th century, of which there were many. But now as then, their efforts have been swept away by deeper theological currents they cannot master and perhaps do not even understand. The history of Protestant and Jewish liberal theology reveals the problem: the more a biblical faith is trimmed to fit the demands of the moment, the fewer reasons it gives believers for holding on to that faith in troubled times, when self-appointed guardians of theological purity offer more radical hope. Worse still, when such a faith is used to bestow theological sanctification on a single form of political life -- even an attractive one like liberal democracy -- the more it will be seen as collaborating with injustice when that political system fails. The dynamics of political theology seem to dictate that when liberalizing reformers try to conform to the present, they inspire a countervailing and far more passionate longing for redemption in the messianic future. That is what happened in Weimar Germany and is happening again in contemporary Islam.
 The complacent liberalism and revolutionary messianism we've encountered are not the only theological options. There is another kind of transformation possible in biblical faiths, and that is the renewal of traditional political theology from within. If liberalizers are apologists for religion at the court of modern life, renovators stand firmly within their faith and reinterpret political theology so believers can adapt without feeling themselves to be apostates. Luther and Calvin were renovators in this sense, not liberalizers. They called Christians back to the fundamentals of their faith, but in a way that made it easier, not harder, to enjoy the fruits of temporal existence. They found theological reasons to reject the ideal of celibacy, and its frequent violation by priests, and thus returned the clergy to ordinary family life. They then found theological reasons to reject otherworldly monasticism and the all-too-worldly imperialism of Rome, offering biblical reasons that Christians should be loyal citizens of the state they live in. And they did this, not by speaking the apologetic language of toleration and progress, but by rewriting the language of Christian political theology and demanding that Christians be faithful to it.
 Today, a few voices are calling for just this kind of renewal of Islamic political theology. Some, like Khaled Abou El Fadl, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, challenge the authority of today's puritans, who make categorical judgments based on a literal reading of scattered Koranic verses. In Abou El Fadl's view, traditional Islamic law can still be applied to present-day situations because it brings a subtle interpretation of the whole text to bear on particular problems in varied circumstances. Others, like the Swiss-born cleric and professor Tariq Ramadan, are public figures whose writings show Western Muslims that their political theology, properly interpreted, offers guidance for living with confidence in their faith and gaining acceptance in what he calls an alien ''abode.'' To read their works is to be reminded what a risky venture renewal is. It can invite believers to participate more fully and wisely in the political present, as the Protestant Reformation eventually did; it can also foster dreams of returning to a more primitive faith, through violence if necessary, as happened in the Wars of Religion.
 Perhaps for this reason, Abou El Fadl and especially Ramadan have become objects of intense and sometimes harsh scrutiny by Western intellectuals. We prefer speaking with the Islamic liberalizers because they share our language: they accept the intellectual presuppositions of the Great Separation and simply want maximum room given for religious and cultural expression. They do not practice political theology. But the prospects of enduring political change through renewal are probably much greater than through liberalization. By speaking from within the community of the faithful, renovators give believers compelling theological reasons for accepting new ways as authentic reinterpretations of the faith. Figures like Abou El Fadl and Ramadan speak a strange tongue, even when promoting changes we find worthy; their reasons are not our reasons. But if we cannot expect mass conversion to the principles of the Great Separation -- and we cannot -- we had better learn to welcome transformations in Muslim political theology that ease coexistence. The best should not be the enemy of the good.
 In the end, though, what happens on the opposite shore will not be up to us. We have little reason to expect societies in the grip of a powerful political theology to follow our unusual path, which was opened up by a unique crisis within Christian civilization. This does not mean that those societies necessarily lack the wherewithal to create a decent and workable political order; it does mean that they will have to find the theological resources within their own traditions to make it happen.
 Our challenge is different. We have made a choice that is at once simpler and harder: we have chosen to limit our politics to protecting individuals from the worst harms they can inflict on one another, to securing fundamental liberties and providing for their basic welfare, while leaving their spiritual destinies in their own hands. We have wagered that it is wiser to beware the forces unleashed by the Bible's messianic promise than to try exploiting them for the public good. We have chosen to keep our politics unilluminated by divine revelation. All we have is our own lucidity, which we must train on a world where faith still inflames the minds of men. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Milan Cathedral, Milan, 1998 (pg. MM28-29)
Chiesa dei Frari, Venice, 1995 (pg. MM31)
 Notre-Dame, Paris, 2000 (pg. MM32-33)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS STRUTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); POLITICS (90%); MILLENNIUM (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



347 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: In Afghanistan, a War Gone Sour ...

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''How the 'Good War' in Afghanistan Went Bad'' (front page, Aug. 12): 
 I'm sure there are many reasons the Afghan war went sour. But much of the blame must lie with a Bush administration that from the start treated Afghanistan as merely the warm-up exercise for the war it really wanted, in Iraq. 
 The rubble of the World Trade Center was still settling when Donald H. Rumsfeld issued the administration's intelligence analysts their marching orders: Find a way to tie Saddam Hussein to the attacks, no matter what ''things related and not'' they had to lash together to do so. That set the tone. 
 Then the administration charged into Afghanistan, ostensibly in hot pursuit of Osama bin Laden, and allowed the terror mastermind to get away, despite having supposedly had him cornered at Tora Bora. 
 And finally, when war with Iraq came in response to the war resolution Congress let itself be slickered into passing, the administration sucked resources away from the Afghan conflict to smash Saddam Hussein and then to hold down the lid on the bubbling cauldron of violence Mr. Bush's invasion had created there. 
 Four years later, we're still holding down the lid in Iraq, and the Taliban are staging a comeback in Afghanistan. My question is: why should anyone be surprised? 
 Eric B. Lipps Staten Island, Aug. 12, 2007
 To the Editor:
 That so many countries joined the United States in the war against Afghanistan shows that it was viewed as the only way to liberate the Afghan people from the oppressive yoke of the Taliban government. As usual, the United States was the lead player, but it is responsible for the major blunder committed when, after the initial victory, European allies sought desperately to shore up security beyond Kabul by sending troops to outlying provinces. 
 The ever omniscient and triumphalist United States administration refused, saying securing Kabul was enough as the Taliban had been routed.
 Afghanistan is a country of many ethnic peoples, with frequent prevalence of Pashtoons in central government. It is also a country where ethnic groups and communities jealously guard their local autonomy; common lore was that when the tax collector came from Kabul to the provinces, he was often shot at! 
 The United States decision not to secure provinces beyond Kabul, particularly in Kandahar to the south and Helmand to the west, where Pashtoons dominate, is puzzling. 
 The United States had poured millions there in the 1960s and 1970s for development projects, including the famous Helmand Valley agricultural project. This seems to be another case of the ideologues trumping the lessons of history -- or was it the distraction of Iraq? 
 Either way, the price in terms of economic and physical security is borne by poor Afghans. Oh for the days when this beautiful country used to be a haven for tourists! 
 Sri Ram Aiyer Chevy Chase, Md., Aug. 13, 2007
 The writer was the World Bank resident representative in Afghanistan in 1971.
 To the Editor:
 A reasonable question for all citizens to ask Congress and the Bush administration is: How could the expenditure of billions over four years result in such poor results? So far, the electorate should have no confidence that those who seek the presidency have learned from the mistakes made by Congress in agreeing to fight terrorism through war.
 Although the candidates of both major parties correctly fault the Bush administration for its obvious ineptitude, none of the leading candidates have made it clear that continuing to fight terrorism in this way has the great probability of increasing our vulnerability, as well as continuing to erode our constitutional rights. 
 Thomas M. Stephens Columbus, Ohio, Aug. 13, 2007

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); ETHNICITY (65%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



348 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Watershed

DATELINE: There are good reasons to hope 

 BODY:
and believe -- that the Federal Reserve will ably manage the turmoil in the financial markets. Its surprise lending rate cut on Friday and earlier infusions of cash into the banking system show that it is committed to crisis management. 
 But the Fed's moves also show that it believes the markets' problems have become a threat to the broader economy. For that reason, calming the markets should be seen as only a necessary first step toward addressing much bigger issues -- issues that President Bush and his aides continue to deny. 
 The real work -- that of leaders, not managers -- is to understand how the economy became so vulnerable to current global market instability, and to articulate an agenda for reducing those underlying weaknesses. There is no return to ''normal'' that would not be the same as sticking one's head back in the sand. 
 The bare facts are that the nation -- heavily indebted -- needs to attract some $800 billion a year from abroad, either by borrowing the money or by selling American assets. No serious analyst believes that an imbalance of that magnitude is sustainable.
 In fact, the erosive effects are already evident. Debt must be repaid by sending money abroad, leaving less to invest domestically. Selling off American assets means reduced investment returns to Americans. And that's if things go smoothly. Ever present is the risk that the vital foreign inflows will wane, with severe repercussions on interest rates and the dollar. 
 So far, however, the Bush administration has shown no awareness that the current market turmoil is layered on top of deeper vulnerabilities that demand attention. It cannot even see that the current market upheaval calls for new policies. In an interview this week in The Wall Street Journal, the Treasury secretary, Henry Paulson, said that the credit crunch tied to risky mortgage-related investments was ''inevitable.'' But the credit squeeze is not the work of an invisible hand. It stems from a markets-above-all ideology espoused at the highest levels of government, and resulting regulatory failures in the face of excessive risk taking. 
 Despite the current turmoil's clear roots in unbridled risk, Mr. Paulson told The Journal, ''there is nothing, in my judgment, that we should be doing to ...restrain risk taking.'' He should tell that to the hundreds of thousands of people who will endure foreclosure because of reckless lending, which spawned the risky investments now roiling the markets.
 In Mr. Paulson's world, and President Bush's, excess and its ruinous consequences are the natural result of market activity, which is itself sacrosanct. So it will fall to Congress and the presidential candidates to put the truly pressing issues on the agenda. The nation badly needs progressive, pro-market leaders who will advance a legal and regulatory framework to reduce excesses in lending and derivatives and to monitor opaque market actors, like hedge funds and private equity firms. The goal must be to avert or at least mitigate crises that otherwise do damage far beyond the immediate investors. 
 And to succeed in the future, the country must first stop digging the hole it is in. That will require federal budget discipline, especially health care reform and higher taxes. 
 It will also require higher private savings. And all of that will require leaders who will level with Americans about the depth of the country's economic problems, including its vulnerability to global turbulence, and the sacrifices it will take to address them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2007



349 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: A New Home for DDT

BYLINE: By DONALD ROBERTS. 
Donald Roberts is an emeritus professor of tropical medicine at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences and a board member of the nonprofit health advocacy group Africa Fighting Malaria.

 BODY:
Bethesda, Md.
 DDT, the miracle insecticide turned environmental bogeyman, is once again playing an important role in public health. In the malaria-plagued regions of Africa, where mosquitoes are becoming resistant to other chemicals, DDT is now being used as an indoor repellent. Research that I and my colleagues recently conducted shows that DDT is the most effective pesticide for spraying on walls, because it can keep mosquitoes from even entering the room. 
 The news may seem surprising, as some mosquitoes worldwide are already resistant to DDT. But we've learned that even mosquitoes that have developed an immunity to being directly poisoned by DDT are still repelled by it. 
 Malaria accounts for nearly 90 percent of all deaths from vector-borne disease globally. And it is surging in Africa, surpassing AIDS as the biggest killer of African children under age 5.
 From the 1940s onward, DDT was used to kill agricultural pests and disease-carrying insects because it was cheap and lasted longer than other insecticides. DDT helped much of the developed world, including the United States and Europe, eradicate malaria. Then in the 1970s, after the publication of Rachel Carson's ''Silent Spring,'' which raised concern over DDT's effects on wildlife and people, the chemical was banned in many countries. Birds, especially, were said to be vulnerable, and the chemical was blamed for reduced populations of bald eagles, falcons and pelicans. Scientific scrutiny has failed to find conclusive evidence that DDT causes cancer or other health problems in humans. 
 Today, indoor DDT spraying to control malaria in Africa is supported by the World Health Organization; the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; and the United States Agency for International Development.
 The remaining concern has been that the greater use of DDT in Africa would only lead mosquitoes to develop resistance to it. Decades ago, such resistance developed wherever DDT crop spraying was common. After the DDT bans went into effect in the United States and elsewhere, it continued to be used extensively for agriculture in Africa, and this exerted a powerful pressure on mosquitoes there to develop resistance. Although DDT is now prohibited for crop spraying in Africa, a few mosquito species there are still resistant to it. But DDT has other mechanisms of acting against mosquitoes beyond killing them. It also functions as a ''spatial repellent,'' keeping mosquitoes from entering areas where it has been sprayed, and as a ''contact irritant,'' making insects that come in contact with it so irritated they leave. 
 In our studies, in which we sprayed DDT on the walls of huts in Thailand, three out of every five test mosquitoes sensed the presence of DDT molecules and would not enter the huts. Many of those that did enter and made contact with DDT became irritated and quickly flew out. 
 The mosquitoes we used were the kind that carry dengue and yellow fever, not malaria. But there is ample evidence that malaria-carrying mosquitoes respond similarly to DDT. Several malaria-carrying species are even more sensitive to DDT's repellent effects. 
 When we sprayed the huts with either dieldrin or alphacypermethrin, in contrast, all the test mosquitoes entered. Alphacypermethrin acted as a contact irritant, and it killed others that lingered on a treated surface. Dieldrin worked only as a poison -- a powerful one, killing 92 percent of mosquitoes that made contact with it, far more than alphacypermethrin or DDT. 
 But dieldrin's strong toxicity means that mosquitoes quickly develop resistance to it. Its use against malaria was short-lived, ending in the 1950s, because it so quickly became powerless.
 Alphacypermethrin and others like it in the family of so-called pyrethroid insecticides are viewed as environmentally friendly, so they are used heavily in agriculture, in Africa and elsewhere. They are also used for treating bed nets and in indoor spraying programs to control malaria. But these multiple uses, combined with fact that the insecticide must make contact with the insect in order to work, have made pyrethroid resistance a large and growing problem for pest control programs in Africa. 
 DDT's spatial repellency, by keeping mosquitoes from making physical contact, reduces the likelihood that the insects will develop resistance. Even those mosquitoes already resistant to poisoning by DDT are repelled by it. 
 It would be a mistake to think we could rely on DDT alone to fight mosquitoes in Africa. Fortunately, research aimed at developing new and better insecticides continues -- thanks especially to the work of the international Innovative Vector Control Consortium. Until a suitable alternative is found, however, DDT remains the cheapest and most effective long-term malaria fighter we have. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INSECTICIDES (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); PERSISTENT ORGANIC POLLUTANTS (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DENGUE FEVER (78%); BIRDS (78%); CANCER (77%); POISONINGS (76%); CHILDREN (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007



350 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BORDER CROSSINGS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: Rising Breed of Migrant Worker: Skilled, Salaried and Welcome

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: SHARJAH, United Arab Emirates 

 BODY:
In this country where foreigners do most of the work, there are migrant maids and migrant masons, migrant tea boys and migrant typists, all doing what most migrant laborers do, menial tasks for meager wages.
 Then there is Peter Mitias, the migrant professor.
 An economist with a Louisiana doctorate and a Mississippi drawl, he shocked his friends when he left a tenured job in Virginia for the American University of Sharjah, a school conjured from nothing by a sheik in the suburbs of Dubai. But when he lists the benefits of working abroad, Mr. Mitias crows.
 He has free housing and utilities. (''Sweet!'') He has international experience on his resume. (''Huge!'') He has cheap household help, good schools for his children and a BMW and a Mercedes he was able to buy by paying no income tax. Not to mention plenty of American fast food.
 ''Papa John's delivers to my house,'' he said. ''It's all here!'' 
 This is migrant work, Ph.D.-style -- a lesson about labor, a comment on class, a window onto globalization and a phenomenon on the rise. 
 Legions of common workers across the globe face new barriers to migration, as destination countries tighten their borders and toughen their talk. But professionals like Mr. Mitias, 39, find ever more welcome mats. Even countries wary of migrant brawn are bullish on migrant brains, and many offer tax breaks and streamlined visas to compete in the global marketplace.
 ''Everybody wants smart people in their country,'' Mr. Mitias said.
 While most migrants remain unskilled, and many are desperately poor, the global demographics are shifting. 
 The number of college-educated migrants in rich Western countries rose 69 percent from 1990 to 2000, according to a World Bank analysis prepared for The New York Times. By contrast, the number of less-educated migrants rose 31 percent.
 The analysis, by Caglar Ozden, an economist at the bank, measured movement to 20 nations, including the United States, Canada, Australia and most of Western Europe, and included people who went to college after migrating as children. Of 52 million migrant workers in those countries, 36 percent had some college education, up from 31 percent a decade before. 
 Of those migrants leaving one rich country for jobs in another, the number with some college education rose 30 percent. The parallel movement of less-skilled workers fell 8 percent.
 ''My sense is these trends have gotten much stronger since 2000,'' Mr. Ozden said. ''Educated people are becoming more mobile.''
 As a small country filled with hired hands, the United Arab Emirates offers students of migration a uniquely rich habitat. About 85 percent of the work force comes from abroad. There are crowds of Indian construction workers, hammering and hauling in the sun, and solitary maids from Southeast Asia scrubbing behind locked doors. 
 Most are forced to come alone and spend years without seeing their children. But there are also pockets of prospering professionals, families in tow: Indian doctors, British bankers and American lawyers. Ski Dubai, the famous indoor slope, has Russian ski instructors.
 ''We're stuck in the paradigm of thinking that migration is only about poor people moving to rich countries,'' said Dhananjayan Sriskandarajah of the Institute for Public Policy Research, a London research group. ''But lots of people move among rich countries, and people from rich countries increasingly move all over the world.''
 ''Migration is a two-way street,'' he said.
 The American University of Sharjah is one of many hiring halls here for the highly educated. A passion of the Sharjah ruler, Sheik Sultan Bin Mohammed al-Qassimi, it opened in 1997 with deep pockets and hopes of building East-West ties. The school now has about 4,000 international students and 300 professors, about half from North America.
 The professors work on long-term contracts, with no route to citizenship, and live in free campus housing, with up to $82,400 of earnings free from American income tax. There is no local income tax.
 Some come for the money. Some come for adventure. Some come to revive stalled careers. Some come to have regrets.
 ''I feel like I've put my life on hold,'' said Tina Richardson, 46, who teaches mass communications at the university and leads the faculty senate.
 She arrived from Oregon four years ago, looking for a place to raise her son and a way out of debt. But the teaching has been less rewarding than she hoped, the cost of living has been higher, and cross-cultural friendships harder to establish, especially as a single mother in an Islamic society. After an early trip to the campus pool left her feeling ogled, she did not return. 
 ''I get attention that I don't want as a single, blond woman--attention I don't do anything to solicit other than exist in my body,'' she said. While the setting has been good for her teenage son, ''it's been a disaster for me personally.''
 Elites have long sought their fortunes abroad, but today's mobility is marked by its spread to more middle classes. A study that Mr. Sriskandarajah helped to write found nearly one in 10 British citizens living in a foreign country, including retirees. ''There's been a democratization of the ability to move,'' he said.
 Middle-class mobility seems likely to grow. As foreign trade and investment expand, more workers have reason to follow. E-mail and cellphones bridge distances. And since the tech boom of the late 1990s, more governments have opened their doors.
 Some countries want migrants to stay. Canada long ago pioneered a point system that promises a work visa and a path to citizenship to any worker with the right qualifications. Now the list of places with similar programs includes Australia, New Zealand, Britain, Hong Kong and the Czech Republic. But much of the recent growth has been in temporary plans. The United States, Britain, Ireland and France are among those with time-limited visas for the skilled. Sweden and Denmark have courted foreigners with tax breaks. Several countries, most notably Australia, try to capture migrants early, by encouraging foreign students to remain. 
 For all the global stress on brains, many economies need low-skilled migrants, too. A legion of foreign-born nannies keeps educated Americans on the job. Still, poor foreigners often raise fears of crime and cultural conflict and are more likely to cross borders illegally. Many countries are narrowing -- or threatening to narrow -- their ability to get in.
 ''Governments give a green light to high-skilled migrants, but put speed bumps in front of others,'' said Jeanne Batalova, a demographer at the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington research group. ''There's a stark contrast.''
 Though educated migrants are often called ''elites,'' some analysts say the term disguises the problems they face. Some are reluctant travelers with displaced families, struggling to find housing, health care and schools amid the isolation of a foreign land. A nascent academic literature is exploring such problems as workplace discrimination and the frustration of spouses without jobs.
 ''It's difficult to make this kind of lifestyle work,'' said Adrian Favell, a sociologist at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''There are hidden costs.''
 Ms. Richardson, the communications teacher, has struggled at home and abroad. After difficulties that included time on food stamps, she spent nearly four years working to support her son while getting a master's degree from the University of Oregon, only to be rejected by Ph.D. programs. Sharjah offered an escape and tax-free pay. ''I was leaving something, rather than going to something,'' she said. ''What I had wasn't working.''
 More frustrations followed. Without a doctorate, Ms. Richardson started at a lower salary than colleagues, $33,000, and had to work two extra campus jobs. She has spent most of her time teaching English composition to nonnative speakers, far from her interest in women's literature. And despite her hopes of contributing to an East-West dialogue, Ms. Richardson was unsettled to find herself feeling pulled toward her American identity. 
 ''Culture is just a lot more powerful than I had ever anticipated,'' she said. ''I found that I really belong to this one culture -- American -- that I've been very critical of.'' 
 By contrast, Mr. Mitias, a football-loving, squirrel-hunting, anything-but-alienated graduate of Louisiana State, has found himself the accidental internationalist, thrilling to possibilities he had not previously glimpsed.
 He describes life abroad as a successive discovery of freedoms: freedom from taxes, freedom from mortgages, freedom from crime, freedom from the sex and violence his daughters would see on American television. He and his wife have taken them to places as different as London and Vietnam, and to Thailand three times. ''The world's at your fingertips,'' he said.
 Hampden-Sydney College in Virginia, where he used to teach, is more than two centuries old; Sharjah was waiting to be molded. He has helped created two new graduate programs and guide the business school to American accreditation. With Ivy League colleges starting programs in Dubai, he laughs about colleagues who warned that a foreign job was professional suicide. ''Harvard is here,'' he said.
 While Ms. Richardson talks of missing Oregon glades and big trees, Mr. Mitias's favorite metaphor is a spinning globe. ''I could go to Europe. I could go to Asia. I could go to South America,'' he said. ''That's the difference between me and the unskilled workers -- I've got choices.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Peter Mitias, above, left Virginia to teach at the American University of Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates and is happy with his new life. But Tina Richardson, right, who also went there to teach, said, ''I feel like I've put my life on hold.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A6) GRAPH: College-Educated Migrants'' The graph compares the education level of migrants from 1990-2000. (Source: United Nations)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIGRANT WORKERS (92%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); TRENDS (71%); SUBURBS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007



351 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WARMBOLD, HERMAN P.

 BODY:
 WARMBOLD--Herman P. , entered an eternal sleep on August 16, 2007. Born in Berlin, Germany in 1927; Herman was deprived of much of his childhood having been appointed to be a German antiaircraft gunner, at the age of fifteen, a crew member of a German PT boat at seventeen and a POW of the US Army at age eighteen. In 1947 Herman and his family relocated to Chile. At the age of 27 he immigrated to the United States via New York City where he received a B.S. degree in Economics and a Masters in Business Administration from NYU. In 1963 he began a new chapter of his life by marrying Grace Staub. Herman and Grace were living in New York City when he co-founded the executive search firm Staub Warmbold & Associates. In 1990 the family relocated to Florida where Herman dedicated his life to a Lapiz Lazuli Mine in Chile; Las Flores de Los Andes. He remained a principal of such until his death. His daughter Kimberly, sister Hilda, nieces and nephews say good-bye to a valiant man. His ashes will be spread across the sea in both Florida and Chile. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Andre Agassi Charitable Foundation for underprivileged children. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CHARITIES (65%); ARMIES (56%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (56%); GEMSTONE MINING (52%); FOUNDATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); BERLIN, GERMANY (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); CHILE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007



352 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: The Good War, Still to Be Won

 BODY:
We will never know just how much better the fight in Afghanistan might be going if it had been managed more competently over the past six years. But there can be little doubt that American forces -- and Afghanistan's government -- would be in far stronger positions than they are today. 
 How different things might be if the Bush administration had not diverted needed troops and dollars into the misguided invasion of Iraq, nor wasted years discouraging needed NATO military assistance, nor pulled its punches rather than pressuring a Pakistani dictator with, at best, mixed feelings toward the Taliban. 
 Those are some of the questions raised in a devastating Times account earlier this month of how Afghanistan's ''good war'' went bad. The battle against Al Qaeda and its Taliban allies is still winnable, and it is vital to American security. But victory will require a smarter strategy and a lot more attention and resources. 
 In the first months after Al Qaeda's 9/11 attacks, the world, the Afghan people and Washington's most important allies were all on America's side. Now, a resurgent Taliban army operates from Pakistani sanctuaries. It wins Afghan hearts and minds every time an errant American airstrike kills innocent civilians, and it gains even more whenever an aid-starved Afghan government fails to deliver on its promises of better governance, economic development and physical security.
 America has never had enough troops in Afghanistan, not in 2001, when Osama bin Laden was on the run in the caves of Tora Bora, and not today, when much of the country is still without effective authority. Too few ground troops have meant too much reliance on airstrikes, leading to too many innocent civilian casualties. 
 Since the Iraq buildup began in 2002, it has drawn away the resources that could have turned the tide in Afghanistan, including the military's best special operations and counterinsurgency units. Afghanistan, larger and more populous than Iraq, now has 23,500 American troops. Iraq has about 160,000.
 The pattern with development aid has been similar. In 2002, President Bush vowed not to repeat his father's mistake of leaving Afghans to rebuild on their own after the 1989 Soviet withdrawal. He broke that vow. In proportion to its population, Afghanistan has received less American development assistance than Bosnia, Kosovo or Haiti. After years of pleas from American ambassadors, total aid is set to increase sharply this year. But with much of the money going to security-related areas like military training and drug eradication, the amount left for rebuilding -- and to provide alternatives to working for warlords or traffickers -- is grossly insufficient. 
 Rightly viewing 9/11 as an attack on a member state, NATO offered to send troops to fight alongside America in Afghanistan. The Bush administration first declined the offer, then accepted help on peacekeeping in Kabul and relatively secure areas of northern Afghanistan -- shunting NATO away from combat areas. That finally changed in 2005, when Washington had to admit that it did not have enough troops to control the embattled south. By then, the fight had become far more difficult. 
 Washington's mistakes have made Iraq a new staging area for international terrorism. The borderlands of Afghanistan and Pakistan are still home to Al Qaeda's most important bases and most dangerous leaders. Victory there will now be harder than it needed to be. But it is no less necessary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ARMIES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); MILITARY TRAINING (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (94%); HAITI (79%); KOSOVO (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007



353 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: In Search Of Cheney's 'Virtue'

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Dick Cheney once scoffed that energy conservation can be a ''personal virtue'' but is no basis for an energy policy.
 Growing evidence suggests he had it exactly wrong.
 Concern about greenhouse gases and reliance on imported oil usually leads to a focus on the supply side of the energy equation, particularly exotic sources such as wind, solar, waves and hydrogen. The coolest car in history is a hydrogen fuel cell vehicle I once drove on a G.M. test track: It could go 100 miles per hour and nothing came out the exhaust but water vapor.
 The catch: It cost $5 million to make. 
 So we need to push ahead with hydrogen and renewables, but the low-hanging fruit on the energy front is curbing demand -- meaning more energy conservation. And it's appalling that our government isn't leading us on that.
 ''The best source of new energy is efficiency and conservation,'' notes Peter Robertson, vice chairman of Chevron. ''The best source is not to use as much.''
 Mr. Cheney's image seems to be of a dour stoic shivering in a cardigan in a frigid home, squinting under a dim light bulb, showering under a tiny trickle of (barely) solar-heated water, and then bicycling to work in the rain. If that's the alternative, then many of us might be willing to see the oceans rise, whatever happens to Florida.
 But new research has shown that improvements in energy efficiency often pay for themselves, actually leaving us better off. 
 ''This is not a sacrifice deal,'' Daniel Yergin, head of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, says of conservation. ''This is a technology deal. After all, we're twice as energy efficient now as we were in the 1970s, and at the same time our economy has more than doubled.''
 James Woolsey, an energy expert and former director of the C.I.A., puts it this way: ''People have radically overestimated the sacrifice and dramatically underestimated the opportunity.''
 McKinsey & Company, the business consulting company, suggests embracing energy-saving measures that pay for themselves with at least a 10 percent rate of return. McKinsey says that if this approach -- at no cost to economic growth -- were put into effect worldwide, by 2020 the annual savings would be 1.5 times the current U.S. annual energy consumption.
 McKinsey Global Institute put out a 290-page book in May detailing the steps necessary. These include better insulation and high-efficiency heating in new homes; low-energy light bulbs; high-efficiency appliances; and higher fuel economy standards for vehicles. To drive a mile in the U.S. typically takes 37 percent more gas than in Europe.
 ''The sheer waste of it all, when other countries have shown another path, is incredible,'' notes Diana Farrell of McKinsey Global Institute. ''The opportunities here are tremendous.''
 The best way to encourage such steps would be to impose a carbon tax, although a cap-and-trade system is a reasonable backup. But we also need mandates. An air-conditioner that is 35 percent more energy efficient than the present standard costs 260 percent more -- so few people buy it. But mandate that standard, and economies of scale immediately send the price plummeting.
 The government also should encourage commercialization of plug-in hybrid vehicles, which could be plugged into a power outlet to charge the battery. Such vehicles don't use any gas on short trips and might average 100 miles per gallon.
 I can't help feeling that we in the news media are part of the reason that steps to battle climate change aren't on top of the national agenda. We're good at covering things that happen on any one day -- like a tornado or hurricane -- but weak at covering complex trends, like climate change. And we tend to cover disputes by having a dutiful quote from each side, without always explaining where the scientific consensus lies.
 Climate skeptics say that we don't know how serious climate change will be, and they're right. But isn't it prudent to address threats even when we're unsure of them? We don't expect to be caught in a fire, but we still believe in fire escapes and fire departments.
 Suppose we had political leaders who snorted that fires are nothing new, that the science of firefighting is unclear, and that we can't impose a burden on business by establishing fire departments -- while brightly adding that citizens can extinguish fires on their own out of ''personal virtue.''
 Why, we would think those leaders were nuts. 
 This will be my last column for several months. I'm beginning a book leave, to work on a book with my wife, Sheryl WuDunn, about what we see as one of the great moral and practical challenges for this century -- raising the status of women in the developing world. I'll be back to column writing early in the new year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (71%); CYCLING (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); CONSUMPTION (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%); IHS INC (65%)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (65%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007



354 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1593 words

HEADLINE: In First Crisis on the Job, Bernanke's About-Face Is Weighed

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
For the last month, the stock market has gyrated as every other day seemed to bring more bad news about the housing and credit markets. Traders awaited a signal from the Federal Reserve and its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, now in his sophomore year at the helm of the central bank.
 On Aug. 7, Wall Street got its first answer. The Fed said in a statement that it was watching the housing meltdown with concern, but that it believed the broader economy was on a steady path of growth. The words did nothing to calm the markets.
 Ten days later, the Fed significantly changed its tone. In an extraordinary action between board meetings, the Fed lowered one of the two interest rates it controls and issued a statement expressing concern about the markets and the possibility of a downturn in the economy. 
 The hand of Mr. Bernanke was clearly behind both statements, and some economists and traders shook their heads at the apparent flip-flop. But Mr. Bernanke, a student if not necessarily a devotee of the British economist John Maynard Keynes, was probably mindful of a remark by Keynes after he was accused of reversing his views on government intervention in markets during the Great Depression.
 ''When the facts change, I change my mind,'' Keynes said. ''What do you do, sir?''
 Mr. Bernanke, grappling with his first crisis since taking over as Fed chairman in February 2006, is being intently watched to see how he handles the reins of the economy. Some accused him of dawdling and then acting with an excess of caution (''Bernanke's baby steps'' was the headline of a Merrill Lynch analysis published Friday).
 David A. Rosenberg, North American economist at Merrill Lynch, wrote that the Fed noted that the risks to the broader economy had increased ''appreciably.'' If that is the case, Mr. Rosenberg asked, why are Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues not acting more boldly?
 ''It does indeed leave one wondering why the Fed didn't bite the bullet and get more aggressive today by cutting the funds rate outright if the Fed has altered its risk assessment over the economic outlook that much,'' Mr. Rosenberg wrote.
 Others saw Mr. Bernanke as handling the upheaval with aplomb.
 ''The way he has handled this is completely in character,'' said Mark Gertler, chairman of the economics department at Columbia University and a longtime colleague of Mr. Bernanke's. ''What's going on is in many ways a textbook financial disturbance and nobody I know understands these things better than he does.''
 Mr. Gertler endorsed both Mr. Bernanke's early restraint in dealing with the crisis and his recent moves to address it. That said, he added that Mr. Bernanke, the markets and the economy are still in peril. ''It's a tightrope and they're still up there on the tightrope,'' Mr. Gertler said.
 Although a Republican who served briefly on President Bush's White House economic team, Mr. Bernanke has shown himself to be no laissez-faire ideologue or partisan gunslinger. 
 A fellow member of the Fed's board of governors, speaking on background, called Mr. Bernanke ''a technocrat of the highest order,'' which he meant as the ultimate praise. He said that one of the missions that Mr. Bernanke has set for himself is to end the cult of personality that grew up around Alan Greenspan, who preceded him and served as chairman for 17 years. 
 In that he appears to have succeeded. He and his wife, Anna, a public high school teacher in Washington, lead a low-key private life, in contrast to Mr. Greenspan and his wife, the television correspondent Andrea Mitchell, who for years have been fixtures on the Washington social circuit.
 Mr. Bernanke came to government from one of the tallest spires of the ivory tower, the chairmanship of Princeton's economics department. He earned his doctorate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where his adviser was Stanley Fischer, now the governor of the Bank of Israel and the former No. 2 at the World Bank.
 But to understand Mr. Bernanke's worldview, one must go back to his hometown, Dillon, S.C., which sits athwart Interstate 95 about halfway between North Jersey and South Florida. Dillon is known as the home of South of the Border, the Tijuana-themed tourist stop and a Mecca of American roadside kitsch.
 Mr. Bernanke, 53, grew up in Dillon in the 1950s and '60s, the son of the local pharmacist and a member of one of the few Jewish families in the largely agricultural region. He says his home was the only kosher household in a 50-mile radius. His mother had meat delivered from a butcher in Charlotte, N.C., where his parents live now.
 Being a member of a minority taught him about discrimination and prejudice. ''There was more than one request to see my horns,'' he said years later.
 He also watched the struggles of small farmers, who drove mule-drawn carts down the main street of town and had trouble paying their bills even in good years. His father granted credit for purchases at the drugstore, keeping records on small cards he kept in a drawer. Many of the debts were never repaid. As Mr. Bernanke grew older, the textile mills that had supported the area closed and moved overseas in search of cheap labor.
 Mr. Bernanke worked construction jobs and waited on tables at South of the Border during the summer while an undergraduate at Harvard University.
 ''I was impressed by these experiences,'' Mr. Bernanke said last fall at a ceremony in his honor on the steps of the neoclassical courthouse in Dillon, ''and I think they were an important reason I went into economics, which a great economist once called the study of people in the ordinary business of life.''
 He has written extensively about the Great Depression and the policy blunders made by the Federal Reserve that spread the distress. Asked to explain his fascination with the Depression he said, ''If you want to understand geology, study earthquakes. If you want to understand the economy, study the Depression.''
 Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research, said that Mr. Bernanke's studies of the Depression and other financial catastrophes have taught him that the Fed's role is not only to keep inflation in check, but also to deal with upheavals in the markets. 
 But Mr. Yardeni said Mr. Bernanke might have misread the market's signals and acted too timidly at first. He said the Aug. 7 statement gave too rosy an outlook. ''That's really where there was a credibility issue,'' he said. ''At that point, most observers had already come to the conclusion that things were coming unglued pretty rapidly and the Fed had to act.''
 Mr. Bernanke's compassion for the common man has not made him a populist or a protectionist, nor even a Democrat. His study of economics has led him to believe that free markets and unfettered trade offer the greatest opportunity for the greatest number of people. But in a speech on growing income inequality earlier this year, he endorsed programs to provide job retraining for displaced workers and new laws to improve the portability of health and pension benefits between employers. 
 As central banker of the world's largest economy, Mr. Bernanke's freedom of speech is circumscribed by custom and by the magnified effect his words have on global markets. He will not talk about the value of the dollar or future interest rate decisions or specific tax or budget measures. Less than three months into the job, Mr. Bernanke stubbed his toe by casually telling CNBC that Wall Street had misread the Fed's signals, touching off a market frenzy.
 Mr. Bernanke now refers to his first few months as a ''break-in period,'' and has been much more circumspect in his remarks since.
 Still, it is possible to discern something of his roots and inclinations from his speeches and Congressional testimony. In a speech last fall in Washington, he expressed worry that the short-sightedness of the current generation will weaken Social Security and Medicare for their children and grandchildren.
 In a commencement address at M.I.T., he delivered a rather dry lecture on the relationship between technological change and productivity growth. But he also told graduates ''the world has more to offer than money'' and encouraged them to pursue offbeat careers, charitable work and public service jobs.
 In June, in remarks on the troubles in the housing and subprime lending markets, Mr. Bernanke voiced sympathy for homeowners who had been foreclosed or unable to obtain new loans. He said that it was difficult to predict how widely the problem would spread, but expressed confidence in the underlying economy. 
 ''At this point,'' he said on June 5, ''the troubles in the subprime sector seem unlikely to seriously spill over to the broader economy or the financial system.'' The Fed held to that position, publicly at least, for two more months. 
 Kenneth R. Manning, a professor of the history of science at M.I.T. who graduated from high school in Dillon four years before Mr. Bernanke, predicted that his friend would excel as Fed chairman, in part because he has not forgotten where he came from.
 ''A lot of times, you have good theorists in economics but they don't have a feel for the world, they don't have a feel for politics,'' Professor Manning said. ''He has that.''
 Mr. Bernanke's mother Edna recalled the tribute to her son last autumn with a bit of embarrassment. ''They put up a huge tent and they had about 500 people there and the governor came,'' she said in a phone interview. ''I think they were just excited that someone from Dillon went somewhere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fed chief Ben Bernanke and his colleagues cut the discount rate as turmoil in the markets grew. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007



355 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 593 words

 BODY:
THE NEED FOR CASH As problems that began in subprime mortgage lending have expanded into the broader markets, hedge funds have come face to face with the ghost of past financial crises: the one-two liquidity punch from banks and investors. [C1.]
 THE BERNANKE WATCHBen S. Bernanke, grappling with his first crisis since taking over as Federal Reserve chairman in February 2006, is being intently watched to see how he handles the economy. [C1.] 
WIKIPEDIA'S DEFENDER Mike Godwin, left, recently became general counsel of the Wikimedia Foundation, charged with defending the online encyclopedia Wikipedia. ''Part of my job,'' he said, ''is to prevent restrictive rules from being put in place that prevent people from participating in massively democratic participatory media.'' [C3.]
 AOL'S TRANSFORMATION Just over a year ago AOL unveiled a plan to remake itself into a business built on advertising from one driven by Internet access subscriptions. But a precipitous slowdown in advertising growth has raised new questions about AOL's plans. [C1.]
 TRIBUNE DEAL When Tribune Company shareholders gather in Chicago to approve an $8.2 billion plan to take the company private, an uncomfortable question is sure to be on the minds of many: Will this deal fall apart? [C1.]
 LIFE IS FUNNY American Greetings and Hallmark Cards have introduced lines that highlight funny real-life situations. The cards are meant for women, who, according to research, like humorous takes on their everyday travails and also buy 80 percent of all paper greeting cards. [C1.]
 DEAL IN TAX SHELTER CASE The government's tax-shelter case against former KPMG employees and two other executives took a surprise turn, with one defendant, David Amir Makov, reaching a deal to plead guilty. [C2.]
 CONSUMER DEBT AND SPENDING A new research paper co-written by Donald L. Kohn, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, says consumer debt soared over the last six years mainly because of the rapid increase in house prices. The research suggests consumer spending may slow in the next few years. [C3.]
 WAR COVERAGE DROPS According to an analysis by a research group, news coverage of the Iraq war fell sharply in the second quarter of the year, as the news media paid increased attention to the presidential campaign and the immigration debate. [C4.]
 KWIK-E CLEARANCE A ''Simpsons Movie'' promotion temporarily transformed a dozen 7-Eleven stores into Kwik-E-Marts. Now some of the stores' Simpsons-inspired goods have turned up for sale on eBay. [C4.]
 COURT PAPERS MOVE ONLINE The domination of two legal research services over the publication of federal and state court decisions is being challenged by an Internet gadfly who has embarked on a project to make more than 10 million pages of case law available free online. [C6.]
 GETTING THE MESSAGE OUTVistaPrint, led by Robert Keane, left, has found a way for customers to hand out millions of promotional messages for it. The company sells -- and gives away -- business cards that also carry the company's marketing message. E-Commerce Report. [C6.]
 PRINTING ON THE GOHewlett-Packard has quietly introduced a free service, Cloudprint, intended to make it possible to print documents on any printer almost anywhere in the world. [C6.]
 SKYPE SERVICE RESTORED Skype said its Internet phone service had returned to normal after a software problem left users unable to log on for two days. [C3.]
 TIME RUNNING OUT FOR SHOW Fox News Channel has decided not to renew the '' 1/2 Hour News Hour,'' saying it was too expensive to produce. [C4.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (75%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); GREETING CARD PUBLISHING (70%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); APPROVALS (66%); GOING PRIVATE (66%); PAPER & PACKAGING (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: WIKIMEDIA FOUNDATION INC (57%); AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (54%); HALLMARK CARDS INC (54%); 7-ELEVEN INC (51%)

TICKER: AM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2009



356 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE STATISTICS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: An Increase in Diagnoses May Not Mean a Higher Rate of the Disease, a Survey Shows

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
The number of diagnosed cases of diabetes increased by 61 percent from 1991 to 2001, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. That went along with a 74 percent increase in obesity, the agency noted, ''reflecting the strong correlation between obesity and the development of diabetes.'' 
 But those numbers may or may not reveal that the actual number of people with diabetes has exploded. It may just be that more people are learning they have the disease, not that the number of those with it is increasing.
 To get a better idea of whether the disease is striking more people or whether more people who have the disease are receiving diagnoses, statisticians have turned to another set of federal data. It is from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, a periodic survey of a representative group of Americans that not only asks whether people have been told they have diabetes but that also includes blood tests to find undiagnosed cases.
 In a paper published last year in Diabetes Care, federal scientists used those data to ask what was the total proportion of the population with diabetes -- diagnosed and undiagnosed. 
 Their surprising conclusion, said Katherine M. Flegal, an author of the paper and an epidemiologist at the National Center for Health Statistics, was that the overall age-adjusted proportion of the population that has diabetes had not really changed from 1988 to 2002, the most recent year for which federal data are available. 
 In two subgroups, though -- men and non-Hispanic blacks -- there was a small but statistically significant increase in the diabetes rate. In general, blacks, Hispanics and Asians are more likely to develop diabetes than whites, and regions with many immigrants of those racial and ethnic groups may experience a surge in the population of people diagnosed with diabetes. But that, of course, does not reveal whether the nation as a whole is experiencing a sharply increasing rate of diabetes.
 Still, says James Smith, a senior economist at the Rand Corporation, who independently analyzed data on men from the national survey, the data are puzzling. Why would there be a significant increase in the diabetes prevalence in men but not in women, since the changes in underlying risk factors like obesity are similar? And why is there no increase over all?
 Dr. Smith suspects that the prevalence data were distorted by data on diabetes in women that may not be as reliable as those involving men. If he is correct, he said, it may be because the surveys in different years were not consistent in dealing with gestational diabetes, an often temporary condition that can occur during pregnancy. When he takes that out of the data, he sees similar rises for men and women. 
 Dr. Smith said he did not want to diminish the significance of the diabetes problem in this country. Indeed, he said, the problem is increasing. But he said there is little question in his mind that the confusion between the number of people who have been told they have diabetes and the actual number of people who have the disease has led to an exaggerated perception of how rapidly the disease is spreading. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Diabetes Rates: More screening has led to a rise in diabetes diagnoses, but a periodic health survey suggests that the overall rate of adult diabetes has changed little since 1988. (Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)
BY THE NUMBERS: 73,000: Number of people who die from diabetes each year in the United States
1.5 million: New cases of diabetes diagnosed in 2005 among people age 20 or over
4.25%: Percentage of adults last year who were taking both diabetes medication and a statin to lower cholesterol
20.8 million: Number of Americans who had diagnosed or undiagnosed diabetes in 2005
20.9%: Percentage of people over the age of 60 who have diabetes
 $132 billion: Estimated overall cost for diabetes in 2002, including medical expenses and the cost of lost productivity because of illness and premature death (Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); OBESITY (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); STATISTICS (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (78%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (78%); NUTRITION (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); ETHNICITY (69%); WRITERS (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007



357 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Cleveland Diocese Accused of Impropriety as Embezzlement Trial Nears

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MAAG

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Aug. 19 

 BODY:
A former assistant treasurer of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Cleveland is to go on trial Monday, accused of taking part in widespread financial mismanagement and looting of church funds. 
 Lawyers for the defendants in this trial and a related case, however, say top church officials are to blame; in documents filed in federal court, the lawyers say the diocese's former bishop and a priest used secret accounts to embezzle millions of dollars from the diocese. Such accusations are ''scurrilous,'' the diocese has said in a written statement.
 The former assistant treasurer, Anton Zgoznik, also worked as a consultant to the church. He and the former chief financial officer of the diocese, Joseph Smith, face a total of 27 criminal charges, including money laundering and tax evasion. 
 Federal prosecutors say Mr. Smith hired Mr. Zgoznik as a consultant to perform accounting services for the diocese and to computerize records. In return for contracts worth $17.5 million over eight years, Mr. Zgoznik used secret accounts to pay Mr. Smith kickbacks totaling $785,000, according to the indictment. Mr. Smith's trial is expected to begin after Mr. Zgoznik's.
 The indictment also says Mr. Smith embezzled from the Catholic Cemeteries Association and took kickbacks from the diocese's insurance broker, using some of the money for a condominium in Tampa. He used off-book accounts to hide these and other earnings from the IRS, the prosecutors say. 
 ''He was the highest-ranking layman in the diocese for 20 years,'' Robert Tayek, the diocese spokesman, said of Mr. Smith. ''People here are just terribly disappointed.'' 
 The defendants counter that the Rev. John Wright, the diocese's former financial and legal secretary and Mr. Smith's boss, created the system of secret compensation for favored employees.
 ''The diocese has hundreds of off-book accounts which hold millions of dollars,'' Philip S. Kushner, the lawyer for Mr. Smith, said in a written response to questions. Diocese leaders ''are trying to make Mr. Smith a scapegoat for practices and a culture they wish to deny,'' Mr. Kushner said.
 In court filings, the defense lawyers say Bishop Anthony M. Pilla, who led the diocese for 25 years before retiring in 2006, had an account off the books that was worth more than $500,000; whether it was his or the diocese's money is in dispute. 
 ''Bishop Pilla withdrew money from the account for his own use in a manner designed to conceal the transactions and his use of the funds,'' defense papers say. 
 Through his lawyer, Kevin Spellacy, Father Wright said that he was ''duped'' by Mr. Smith. 
 ''These guys are desperate thieves,'' Mr. Spellacy said. ''They're trying to destroy good people. It's a horrible defense, but it's all they got.'' 
 Accusations of financial impropriety in the Cleveland diocese have surfaced in the past. In June 2005, 36 lay Catholics filed a class-action lawsuit against Bishop Pilla for allowing his top deputies to embezzle $2 million from the church, according to court documents. A judge dismissed the case, saying the lay members did not have standing to bring suit. 
 ''Bishop Pilla, Father Wright, Joe Smith, they were all stealing,'' said Santiago Feliciano Jr., the lawyer who filed the class-action suit. He had worked alongside diocese leaders as director of the church legal office for 17 years before resigning in 2000.
 ''It was a corporate culture that was corrupt at almost all the top levels,'' Mr. Feliciano said.
 In the criminal cases, the lawyers for the defendants say that in addition to approving all the payments to Mr. Smith, Father Wright directed almost $1 million in disguised compensation to himself, his relatives and friends, according to court documents.
 One of Father Wright's secretaries ''was on the payroll'' of a company that does business for the diocese, ''but didn't work there,'' Zrino Jukic, a former employee of Mr. Zgoznik, told the Federal Bureau of Investigation in an interview, according to a transcript filed with the court by the defense. The woman ''was Father Wright's girlfriend,'' Mr. Jukic told the F.B.I.
 The woman received $290,000 in off-the-books compensation, said Robert J. Rotatori, Mr. Zgoznik's lawyer. ''This was a common vehicle that Father Wright used,'' Mr. Rotatori said.
 Father Wright's lawyer, Mr. Spellacy, denied the accusations.
 The situation in Cleveland may be an example of a wider problem, according to Charles Zech, an economics professor at Villanova University. ''What's unusual about Cleveland is that this usually happens at the parishes, not the diocese,'' said Professor Zech. ''The church lacks really basic internal controls, which makes embezzlement easy.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); EMBEZZLEMENT (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ACCOUNTING (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CEMETERIES (51%)

COMPANY: CATHOLIC CEMETERIES ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007



358 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Building a Brand Name, Via Business Cards

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
AMONG Internet businesses, perhaps only one has managed to reach a market value of more than $1 billion by getting customers to hand out millions of promotional messages for it.
 The company is not Amazon, eBay or even Google. Rather, it is VistaPrint, a printing company that has strung together 28 profitable quarters by selling -- and giving away -- business cards. The free cards, of which VistaPrint has distributed 2.5 billion, carry the company's marketing message on the back.
 VistaPrint, a publicly held company based in Bermuda, sells a variety of wares online, from custom-printed rubber stamps, checks and notepads to marketing brochures for small businesses. Now it is stepping into the offline world, too, through a partnership announced this month with OfficeMax. 
 Eventually, all 900 OfficeMax stores in the United States and Mexico will have a station where customers can log on to a Web site that uses VistaPrint's technology and, with the help of an OfficeMax employee, design business cards and other materials that will be printed by VistaPrint and delivered to the OfficeMax store or the customer's home.
 ''This makes all the sense in the world,'' said Gail Nickel-Kailing, an analyst with Business Strategies Etc., a Seattle-based consultancy. OfficeMax, she said, ''can take a little bit of profit off the top of each order, and they don't have to mess with it.''
 Business cards, it turns out, are indeed a messy undertaking. Ms. Nickel-Kailing and other industry analysts say that printers generally dislike such jobs because they are not lucrative. Most business cards are ordered in small batches, on cheap paper, and with little in the way of inventive designs.
 VistaPrint helped change the economics of the business in 1999 when it used a new approach to printing the cards. Traditionally, printers would produce business cards in distinct batches for each client, with a person's card printed 143 times on a single sheet of paper.
 VistaPrint created software that allows it to print 143 different cards on each sheet, then print those sheets in large quantities. 
 ''Ganging up'' orders, as the technique is known, is not necessarily difficult, but grouping similar orders efficiently is: in one batch, customers may want a specific paper stock or color combination, while in another batch, the card size may be different. VistaPrint's software can group similar batches together efficiently. 
 The company's approach is so automated that each batch printed of material requires less than 60 seconds of human involvement.
 The low-touch approach is partly why VistaPrint charges an average of about $40 for an order of 1,000 business cards, compared with roughly at$80 most print shops. Consumers have responded, handing VistaPrint a large majority of the online business card industry, analysts said.
 Last month, VistaPrint announced a net income of $27 million for its 2007 fiscal year, up 41 percent from 2006, on revenue of $256 million. The company said that it had attracted 3 million new customers during the year and processed an average of 22,000 orders a day in the three months ended June 30.
 The deal with OfficeMax is an important defensive measure, said Robert Keane, VistaPrint's chief executive. ''We think it makes sense to partner with other people who have access to millions of customers, and help them be the second, third and fourth competitors in the market,'' he said. ''I'd rather have the market dominated by firms that are VistaPrint in different guises.''
 OfficeMax is adding a human element to the VistaPrint approach. Ryan Vero, OfficeMax's chief merchandising officer, said that in tests this year, the VistaPrint stations at stores improved customer satisfaction with the process of buying business marketing materials.
 That is no small thing, Mr. Vero said, since business cards in particular can be the first step in building a long-term relationship with a customer.
 OfficeMax's competitors have been quick to respond. Last week, Staples announced it had struck a deal with Hewlett-Packard to offer a similar service. Instead of ordering cards that are delivered later, however, Staples customers can have them printed in 30 minutes. The service relies on technology from Logoworks, an online logo design company that Hewlett-Packard bought this year and that also has an in-store printing deal with Office Depot.
 Other companies have gone after the business-card niche recently, with varying degrees of success. Last year Eastman Kodak introduced Kodak Creative Network, a site aimed at small businesses that let people place photographs on their business cards and stationery. Last week, though, Kodak closed the site, sending customers to the Kodak Gallery (KodakGallery.com), which is aimed at the general consumer.
 Of all the major office supply and printing companies, FedEx Kinko's has spent the most time and money on the online printing category, said Ms. Nickel-Kailing, the consultant. Those efforts, she said, have yielded little success, but according to Tom Leverton, a FedEx Kinko's executive vice president, the company has been turning a corner.
 In November, FedEx Kinko's introduced Print Online, which allows customers to upload a file to the Web, specify how they would like it printed, view a proof of the document and then send it to a FedEx Kinko's location for printing.
 Mr. Leverton declined to say how many customers have used the system, but he said it had seen ''tremendous month-over-month growth since its launch.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Keane, the chief executive of VistaPrint, a company that is doing well by printing business cards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT SPENCER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BRANDING (75%)

COMPANY: VISTAPRINT NV (92%); GOOGLE INC (90%)

TICKER: VPRT (NASDAQ) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (92%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BERMUDA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2007



359 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: August 20, 2007

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2896 words

HEADLINE: Peer Pressure

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH and ANDREA PERELMAN


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students learn about youth courts and explore the system further by engaging in a mock youth court trial. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students learn about youth courts and explore the system further by engaging in a mock youth court trial.
Author(s):
Sarah Kavanagh, The New York Times Learning Network
Andrea Perelman, Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance: one hour.
Objectives:
Students will:
1. Respond to a minor crime scenario and decide what sentence would best fit the crime.
2. Learn about the youth court system for minor juvenile offenders by reading and discussing the article "Hey Judge, Aren't You in My Math Class?".
3. Prepare for and engage in a mock youth court trial.
4. Write letters to the city court or school board arguing for or against a youth court system in their community.
Resources and Materials:
- pens/pencils.
- paper.
- classroom board.
- student journals.
- four placards, as described in the warm-up.
- computers with Internet access.
- copies of the article "Hey Judge, Aren't You in My Math Class?", at www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070820monday.html (one per student).
Activities and Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: Students respond to the following prompt in their journals, written on the board before class: "A 15-year-old was caught shoplifting a shirt from a local store. What sentence would fit the crime and be most likely to encourage this teenager to stop engaging in illegal behavior?"
While students are writing, place signs in each of the four corners of the room that read "Strongly Agree," "Somewhat Agree," "Somewhat Disagree" and "Strongly Disagree." Once students have had a chance to complete their responses, ask for a volunteer to read his or her response aloud, and then ask the class if they think the volunteer's proposed sentence would encourage this teenager to stop engaging in illegal activities. Direct students to respond to this question by standing in one of the labeled four corners. Once all students have chosen a corner, have one student from each corner explain their choice. Repeat this activity with several more volunteers. Ask for volunteers who suggested different sentences from previous volunteers. Close the discussion by asking the class what sentence they think a judge or jury might decide on if this case went to court. Do they think that adults in the judicial system would decide on a different sentence from the one the class preferred? Why or why not?
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "Hey Judge, Aren't You in My Math Class?" (www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20070820monday.html), focusing on the following questions:
a. How are youth courts both similar to and different from regular courts?
b. Why would a young person choose to be tried in a youth court?
c. Why do law enforcement officials support youth courts?
d. How do you think young people might respond differently to being tried in a youth court?
e. Art Lander, a retired police officer, says that youth court officers "aren't looking for harsh sentences, but for an alternative way for these kids to come back into the community and become better citizens." What are the potential upsides and drawbacks of this approach for the community?
g. What does the recidivism rate among teenagers tried in youth courts say about the system?
h. For what purpose do you think the story of Renee Lakowitz is included in the article?
i. If you were charged with a minor offense, would you rather be tried in a youth court or in the regular juvenile system? Why?
3. Inform your students that they will be conducting a mock youth court trial. First have students mine the article for all of the roles involved in youth courts, including prosecution, defense, judge, witnesses, plaintiff, defendant and bailiff. If necessary, remind students that the youth court in the article did not have a jury and that the sentence was decided by the judge. Also let your students know that another role not mentioned in the article that many youth courts have is that of the clerk. List all of these roles on the board.
Split the class into small groups and assign each group one of the roles written on the board. Direct the groups to use the article and their knowledge of the judicial system to brainstorm tasks performed by people in their assigned role. Some groups may need to use additional resources, like textbooks, the Internet or information from the teacher. Before students begin brainstorming, remind them that because defendants in youth court have already admitted guilt, these courts decide only how the defendant will be sentenced.
When the brainstorming is complete, have each group present ideas to the class, and call on the rest of the class to suggest additional ideas they may have. After all students in the class have an understanding of every role in the mock youth trial, shift the class groupings so as to assign the roles and start the mock trial proceedings, using the following guidelines (choose the exact number of students in each role based on class size):
- judge: two or three.
- prosecution team: three to eight.
- plaintiff: one.
- defense team: three to eight.
- defendant: one.
- parent or guardian: one or two.
- bailiff: one.
- clerk: one.
- witnesses: as many as needed.
Have all of the students "playing" each role convene as a group or sit individually to prepare, as appropriate. Distribute a handout that includes an official description of the "crime" for which the "defendant" will be "sentenced," as well as notes for the "defendant," the "plaintiff," each of the "witnesses" and the "parent(s)" or "guardian(s)" of the "defendant." Use the following notes to create the handout, or create your own based on a crime that you think will resonate with your students:
Description of Crime: Jude Venile was caught spray-painting the phrase "Jude and Missy 4 Ever" on the exterior wall of the school building by Officer Copper at 9:30 p.m. on the night of Aug. 20. He tried to run away from the officer, but tripped over his cans of spray paint and was taken into custody.
Defendant, Jude Venile, age 15.
- admits guilt.
- bought the spray paint with the intent of using it to vandalize the school.
- was dared by a friend.
- admits that he tried to run from Officer Copper.
- apologizes for his actions.
Plaintiff, Vince Principal, school vice principal.
- was not at the scene of the crime.
- acting as plaintiff for the school district.
- believes that graffiti is bad for the school community.
- knows that the school puts a lot of money into removing graffiti.
Parent, Ms. Patty Venile.
- says she will do her part to make sure Jude completes his sentence.
- wants to let the court know that Jude has been under a lot of stress at school lately.
- says they recently moved and Jude has had a hard time adjusting.
- says that Jude is a "good kid."
Witness, Missy DeMeanor, age 14.
- witnessed the crime.
- dared Jude to spray graffiti.
- apologizes.
Witness, Jan Itor, school custodian.
- witnessed the crime from a second-story window.
- called the police.
- has spent many hours dealing with vandalized property.
Depending on the size of your class, you will probably have to add more witness statements to this example handout. In addition to the notes for the key roles, provide each group with the following instructions for conducting the mock trial:
Witnesses, Plaintiff and Defendant: Become familiar with your notes and add any other material that you think will flesh out your character that is consistent with the information provided. Become familiar with the description of the crime and with your character notes so that you will not need to refer to the handout while you are being questioned.
Judges - Read the facts and stats sheet found on the National Association of Youth Courts Web site (www.youthcourt.net/content/view/35), paying particular attention to the types of sentences given to defendants in youth courts. Determine which of these types of sentences might benefit the defendant and the community and what you will be looking for in the trial.
Prosecution and defense attorneys - Each legal team should split into three groups, and each one should then prepare for one of the three phases of the mock trial: opening statement, examination and cross-examination of witnesses, and closing statement. They should use both the character notes handout and the National Association of Youth Courts Web page (www.youthcourt.net/content/view/35) to prepare.
Clerk and bailiff - Work together to arrange the classroom and make a poster to display that informs the court of the ground rules and sequence of the proceedings. You may need to do some online research to complete this task. Good resources include www.19thcircuitcourt.state.il.us/bkshelf/resource/mt_conduct.htm, staff.hightechhigh.org/~tfehrenbacher/Trials/Trial%20Proceedings.htm, and www.nationalmocktrial.org/fullrules.cfm#D.%20%20%20%20THE%20TRIAL.
The teacher should be sure the students playing clerk and bailiff understand that because this is a sentencing trial, it will be slightly different from most mock trials.
Once all groups have completed their preparation assignments, have the bailiff and clerk present their poster to the class. The class will then conduct a mock trial following this order of events, with each student playing his or her assigned role as faithfully as possible.
At the end of the trial, after the sentence has been decided upon and announced by the judge(s), have the class come together to discuss whether they think the sentence would make a difference in Jude's life and in the life of the community as a whole.
4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Individually, students write letters to the city court arguing for or against the adoption of a youth court system in the community. If your locality already has a youth court system, the letter should be addressed to the school board arguing for a youth court to be adopted within the school system to deal with students who commit minor in-school offenses. Remind students to use the statistics and arguments from the article and other resources used in the activity to support their arguments.
Further Questions for Discussion:
- Do you think that being judged by your peers would make you more or less likely to take the court procedure seriously? Why?
- Do you believe that justice should mainly consist of punishment, or should it also involve reform and support for both the criminal and the community? Why?
- Do you think it is fair and right that defendants who choose the youth trial route avoid a criminal record? Why or why not?
Evaluation and Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on their initial journal entries, participation in the four corners debate, participation in class and small group discussions, in brainstorms and in their group's presentation to the class, thorough preparation for the mock trial, spirited participation in the mock trial, and thorough completion of a thoughtful letter to the school board or city court.
Vocabulary:
descends, gavel, prosecutor's, mock, bailiff, acknowledge, diverted, juvenile, convincing, promotes, delinquency, ensure, sentencing, mechanisms, sanctioned, underlying, external, probation, misdemeanors, vandalism, proverbial, overburdened, rehabilitate, recidivism, harnessing.
Extension Activities:
1. Conduct a mock trial of a similar case as it would be held in the regular court system. Have students prepare opening and closing statements as well as questions for examination and cross-examination of witnesses. Discuss how the verdict would differ from that of a youth court.
2. Create a trial timeline that follows the criminal trial process from the moment of arrest to the completion of sentencing. Include a job description for all people who play a role in the process.
3. Create a youth courts brochure that explains the process to young first-time offenders who are thinking about having their case heard in a youth court as opposed to the regular juvenile system.
4. Write a profile of your state's youth court system. Research where in your state there are youth courts or similar organizations and what role they play. Include in your profile a discussion of how to start new youth courts in your state and any and all relevant statistics you find. If you live in Connecticut, profile the juvenile review boards system.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
American History - Create a timeline of the history of the American juvenile court system, paying particular attention to how the definition of "minor" has changed over time and if and how it differs by state.
Global Studies - Research youth courts in Great Britain and New Zealand and make a comparison chart showing how their systems compare with youth courts in the United States. Include a discussion of how each system might learn from the other systems.
Journalism - Interview members of the youth court in your area and write a profile or feature for the school paper. Include an explanation of how other students at your school can get involved.
Teaching with The Times - Create a diagram of the United States justice system, using for illustration blurbs and graphics from articles you find in The Times that detail contemporary cases at the local, state and federal levels.
To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Other Information on the Web:
The National Association of Youth Courts has a Web site at www.youthcourt.net/.
The Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention is operated by the Justice Department and has a Web site at www.ojjdp.gov/.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades Six to Eight:
Civics Standard 3: Understands the sources, purposes and functions of law, and the importance of the rule of law for the protection of individual rights and the common good. Benchmark: Understands how and why the rule of law can be used to restrict the actions of private citizens and government officials.
Civics Standard 10: Understands the roles of voluntarism and organized groups in American social and political life. Benchmarks: Knows services that are provided by charitable, religious and civic groups in the community (e.g., health, child and elderly care; disaster relief; counseling; tutoring; basic needs like food, clothing and shelter); knows volunteer opportunities that exist in one's own school and community.
Civics Standard 18: Understands the role and importance of law in the American constitutional system and issues regarding the judicial protection of individual rights. Benchmarks: Understands the importance of the rule of law in establishing limits on both those who govern and the governed, protecting individual rights, and promoting the common good; Understands the advantages and disadvantages of the adversary system and the advantages and disadvantages of alternative means of conflict management (e.g., negotiation, mediation, arbitration and litigation); knows the basic principles of the juvenile system and the major differences between the due process rights of juveniles and adults; understands current issues regarding judicial protection of the rights of individuals.
Language Arts Standard 1: Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmark: Uses content, style and structure (e.g., formal or informal language, genre, organization) appropriate for specific audiences (e.g., public, private) and purposes (e.g., to entertain, to influence, to inform); writes business letters and letters of request and response (e.g., uses business letter format; states purpose of the letter; relates opinions, problems, requests or compliments; uses precise vocabulary).
Grades Nine to 12:
Civics Standard 3: Understands the sources, purposes and functions of law, and the importance of the rule of law for the protection of individual rights and the common good. Benchmark: Knows alternative ideas about the purposes and functions of law (e.g., regulating relationships among people and between people and their government; providing order, predictability, security and established procedures for the management of conflict; regulating social and economic relationships in civil society).
Civics Standard 10: Understands the roles of voluntarism and organized groups in American social and political life. Benchmark: Understands the relationship between American voluntarism and Americans' ideas about limited government.
Civics Standard 18: Understands the role and importance of law in the American constitutional system and issues regarding the judicial protection of individual rights. Benchmarks: Understands how the rule of law makes possible a system of ordered liberty that protects the basic rights of citizens; understands the effects of Americans relying on the legal system to solve social, economic and political problems rather than using other means, like private negotiations, mediation and participation in the political process.
Language Arts Standard 1: Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmark: Uses strategies to address writing to different audiences (e.g., includes explanations and definitions according to the audience's background, age or knowledge of the topic, adjusts formality of style, considers interests of potential readers); uses appropriate strategies (e.g., organizational pattern, format, language, tone) to write personal and business correspondence (e.g., informal letters, memos, job application letters, resumes).

        
Hey Judge, Aren't You in My Math Class?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUVENILE JUSTICE (95%); JUVENILE COURTS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); WRITERS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); JUVENILE CRIME (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); VOLUNTEERS (67%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); SHOPLIFTING (52%) Academic Skills; American Government; Civics; Collaboration and Cooperation; Crime; Individual Rights; Language Arts; Listening Comprehension; Presentations and Public Speaking

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011



360 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:
MERCK'S VIOXX STRATEGY None of the 45,000 people who have sued Merck, claiming that they or their loved ones suffered heart attacks or strokes after taking the painkiller Vioxx, have received money from the company, which is appealing guilty verdicts and avoiding payments in the meantime. As a result, Merck's stock is recovering nicely and its ultimate liability from Vioxx is decreasing. 
 FOREIGN INVESTMENT JITTERS The Bush administration is concerned that foreign governments increasingly are converting their dollar holdings into investment funds that could eventually destabilize markets or start a political backlash. [C1.] 
 AVERAGE INCOMES KEEP FALLING Americans earned a smaller average income in 2005 than in 2000, making 2005 the fifth consecutive year that they had to make ends meet with less money, government figures show. [C1.]
 WHAT ABOUT THE DEALS? The whispering continues to persist. Can the private equity firms that committed to all those super-sized leverage buyouts get out of them? That question is being asked all over Wall Street. [C1.]
 DVD FORMAT BATTLE HEATS UP The battle over which format will replace the DVD is heating up after Paramount, part of Viacom, and DreamWorks Animation say they will exclusively back the HD DVD format -- not Blu-ray -- for the release of high-definition movies like ''Transformers'' and ''Shrek the Third.'' [C1.]
 CAUTIOUS INVESTORS Investors shunning investments that carry even the slightest hint of risk helped send the price of short-term government debt soaring, and yields had their biggest drop since the stock market crash of 1987. [C1.]
 A MORE AGGRESSIVE APPROACH In contrast with the Bush administration's largely hands-off approach, Congressional Democrats are seeking more aggressive, interventionist moves to protect homeowners caught in the turmoil tied to subprime mortgages. [C3.]
 LIMITS ON VIDEO GAMES As video games have surged in popularity, politicians around the country have tried to outlaw the sale of some violent games to children. So far all such efforts have failed. New York may be next in line to try. [B1.]
 ASIAN LEADERS TO MEET Leaders of India and Japan will meet this week in what will be the highest-level meeting so far in what analysts say is a long-term effort to balance, if not contain, China's growing economic and political might. [C3.]
 GREENPOINT MORTGAGE CLOSING In yet another casualty of the fallout in the mortgage industry, the Capital One Financial Corporation will stop making residential mortgages and close GreenPoint Mortgage, its wholesale mortgage banking unit. About 1,900 people will lose their jobs. [C4.]
 MARKET FOR CHINESE INVESTORS The Chinese government has announced that it will allow mainland Chinese citizens to invest in the Hong Kong stock market, the most significant move to date by Beijing officials to dismantle the barriers that prevent most Chinese from making international investments. [C4.]
 NASDAQ ENDS BID FOR EXCHANGE Nasdaq is selling its stake in the London Stock Exchange, ending a 18-month effort to buy the rival, possibly to focus on buying the Swedish exchange operator OMX. [C3.]
 HSBC MAY BUY KOREAN BANK HSBC Holdings is in talks with Lone Star Funds, a Texas-based private equity fund, to buy a majority stake in Korea Exchange Bank, which would give HSBC a retail bank in Asia. [C5.]
 A NEW FORM OF AD SALES The September issue of Vogue arrives on newsstands with a record 727 advertising pages, along with the added value of a Web feature that offers links to purchase products while also showing videos of runway shows, fashion ad campaigns and serial shows. Advertising. [C8.]
 INDICATORS ROSE IN JULY The Conference Board says its index of leading economic indicators rose 0.4 percent in July. [C7.]
 PROFIT AT LOWE'S INCREASES The Lowe's Companies reported a higher-than-expected second-quarter profit and a gain in market share, saying that sales trends were improving in some regions despite the soft housing market. The home improvement retailer said it faced easier sales comparisons but still cut its full-year outlook. Lowe's said gross margin improved in the quarter on better management of imported products and distribution. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (85%); STROKES (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); POLITICS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (72%); FILM (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (68%); ANIMATION (67%); COMPUTER GAMES (67%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (67%); ANIMATED FILMS (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING (67%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (62%); VERDICTS (57%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (57%)

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (80%); VIACOM INC (55%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (55%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (80%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); DWA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (66%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



361 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Skittish Investors Rush to Buy Treasury Debt

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS; Vikas Bajaj, Jenny Anderson and Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The stock market was quiet yesterday, but debt markets were anything but.
 In a sign that investors are fleeing investments that carry even the slightest hint of risk, the price of short-term government debt soared, sending yields on their biggest drop since the stock market crash of 1987. The return on a three-month United States Treasury bill was 3.09 percent when trading closed yesterday. At the end of July, it was nearly 5 percent. 
 The rush to buy Treasuries offered an indication that the Federal Reserve, which on Friday unexpectedly reduced its rate for loans to banks, might need to do more to reassure investors about the credit markets. 
 The jolt to the market for government debt -- traditionally a safe haven for investors because it is backed by the United States Treasury -- came as share prices steadied in the wake of the Fed's action. 
 That move, widely viewed as an indication that the central bank was amenable to lowering its pivotal federal funds rate, propelled markets worldwide to hefty gains. 
 But trading on Wall Street was largely unremarkable yesterday. For most of the session, stocks hovered either slightly above or slightly below Friday's closing levels on light trading volume. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed at 1,445.55, essentially flat, down 0.03 percent from Friday. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 42.27 points to finish the day up 0.3 percent, at 13,121.35. The Nasdaq rose 0.14 percent. 
 The calm yesterday in stock trading masked what many Wall Street analysts said was still very much a market on edge.
 ''There's just a massive fear factor at play here,'' said Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab. ''Investors of every variety are just scrambling into the safety of Treasuries.''
 The flight into United States government debt reflects the uncertainty over the security of a short-term debt known as commercial paper that companies use to finance day-to-day operations. The stock market has tumbled sharply in recent weeks on fears that credit is evaporating for individuals and corporations alike. 
 Many companies have found it difficult to raise money by selling commercial paper. These markets began seizing up once it became known that some of the debt was backed by risky subprime mortgage loans.
 ''You're seeing a lot of people scrambling to raise cash,'' said Robert F. Millikan, director of fixed income at BB&T Asset Management in Raleigh, N.C. ''Nobody can actually quantify the risk right now, so investors are requiring a somewhat exaggerated level of compensation.''
 The yield on 30-day commercial paper that is backed by pools of assets like home loans and credit cards rose to 6 percent yesterday from 5.28 percent in mid-July, according to data from Bloomberg. Typically, the yield is close to the federal funds rate, which is 5.25 percent.
 ''Banks didn't expect to have to bail out the commercial paper market,'' said Christian Stracke, a senior strategist at CreditSights. ''It goes to the heart of the financial system when banks have to take on a lot more risk than they expected and offload it somewhere else.''
 When the Federal Reserve cut the lending rate last week at its so-called discount window -- where banks can go to receive a short-term loan if they find interest rates in the commercial paper market to be prohibitive -- it was an acknowledgment that the market had tightened too much.
 Yesterday the Fed took another step to help ease the disarray in the debt market. In a departure from its normal practice, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said it would cash out of about $5 billion in expiring Treasury bills on Thursday.
 Normally, the central bank would immediately use that cash to buy a comparable volume of new Treasury bills at auction. But in this case, the Fed's Open Market Trading Desk in New York will stay out of the auction and hold on to cash -- a move the bank said would give it ''greater flexibility.''
 As the markets continued to digest the Federal Reserve's interest rate reduction, investment strategists said the cut was having the desired effect for now. 
 ''Has it solved all the housing-related problems? Of course not,'' Ms. Sonders said. ''But it eliminated what was in the very near term just a total credit seizure.''
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: ''Flight to Safety'' With so much uncertainty in the credit markets, investors have rushed to buy short-term Treasury bills, causing their yields to plunge. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)
''The Dow minute-by-minute'' Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%)

COMPANY: BB & T ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (61%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



362 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
FIRST COMMERCIAL A380 FLIGHT Singapore Airlines will begin auctioning seats on eBay next Monday for the first commercial flight of the A380 superjumbo jet, scheduled for Oct. 25 from Singapore to Sydney. Proceeds will go to charity. Singapore will be the first airline to take delivery of the long-delayed Airbus double-decker aircraft, which is certified to hold 853 passengers in a single-class configuration. Singapore said it would configure its A380s with 471 seats in three classes: economy, business and what the airline calls ''a class beyond first.'' No United States carriers have ordered the planes, but international airlines that are buying A380s have all said they intend to fly them with no more than about 550 passengers in economy and premium cabins. Singapore, which has ordered 19 A380s, has not yet unveiled its new first-class cabins for the jets, but is expected to do so soon. A380s have previously flown passengers on noncommercial demonstration flights. 
 RECORD WORLD AIR TRAVEL A record 4.4 billion passengers flew on world airlines last year on 72.2 million flights, the Airports Council International said. That was 6.8 percent more than in 2005. 
 FLYING HIGH Travelers are buying more first- and business-class seats for international travel, especially on the highly competitive trans-Atlantic routes, according to the International Air Transport Association. Excluding flights classified as premium on international short routes within Europe, worldwide premium traffic was 5.7 percent higher in June than in June 2006. On the North Atlantic routes, premium traffic increased by 8.5 percent, the airline trade group said. 
 SIGN-UPS AT SAN FRANCISCO Clear, the expanding version of the Registered Traveler Program operated by Verified Identity Pass Inc., said it signed up 1,000 members in the first 30 hours of enrollment at San Francisco International Airport. It expects to open a lane at the airport in September. Clear, which has lanes operating at eight airports, said it had enrolled 59,000 members, who pay $99.95 a year for expedited passage through airport security. A spokeswoman for the Transportation Security Administration said that as of the first week in August, the program had about 40,000 active participants, with the rest enrolled but not yet fully processed by the security administration.
 ET CETERA Average airfares are down 3 percent for this fall compared with last fall, Travelocity says ... The Four Seasons Resort Lana'i in Honolulu now provides snorkeling masks in a variety of standard lens prescriptions for guests who wear glasses ... The budget lodging chain Motel 6 has redesigned its Web site, www.motel6.com, with new search and navigation features. Motel 6, with more than 850 locations in North America, is the top economy brand of Accor North America. JOE SHARKEY 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FARES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); AIRPORT OPERATION (71%); HOTEL CHAINS (68%); WATER SPORTS (65%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (63%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%)

COMPANY: ACCOR NORTH AMERICA INC (60%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (58%); AIRBUS SAS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (55%); INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (54%)

TICKER: C6L (SGX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (60%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (54%) SINGAPORE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



363 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: A Fear of Foreign Investments

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
For years, the Bush administration has shrugged off concerns about the trillions of dollars that the United States owes to China, Japan and oil-producing countries in the Middle East, arguing that these debts give no undue leverage to foreign governments.
 But at a time of global financial instability, the administration has started to worry that foreign governments are increasingly converting their dollar holdings into investment funds to acquire companies, real estate, banks and other assets in the United States and elsewhere. The fear is that these so-called sovereign wealth funds could destabilize markets or provoke a political backlash.
 In response, the Bush administration is pressing the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to examine the behavior of these funds, which control up to $2.5 trillion in investments, and develop possible codes of conduct for them. Among the proposed rules would be an obligation to disclose investment methods and to avoid interfering in a host country's politics. 
 Officially, the United States welcomes all investments, except those that could compromise national security. ''Money is naturally going to gravitate toward dollar-based assets because of the strength of our economy,'' the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said in an interview. ''I'd like nothing more than to get more of that money. But I understand that there's a natural fear that they're going to buy up America.''
 Still, a note of caution can be heard. One of the American concerns is philosophical. The United States has for years preached the gospel of privatization, calling on other countries to sell their government-owned industries.
 Now, with sovereign wealth funds, many experts are asking whether cross-border investment is evolving into cross-border nationalization, raising the prospect of government interference in free markets, only this time, in other countries' markets.
 Another concern is the sheer size and potential growth of these funds. Their estimated $2.5 trillion in assets exceeds the sum invested by the world's hedge funds. Moreover, Morgan Stanley, in a widely cited study, projects that these investment funds could grow to a staggering $17.5 trillion in 10 years.
 Though sovereign wealth funds do not appear to have played a role in the recent turmoil in global markets, experts say they could in the future, in favorable or unfavorable ways -- by selling assets abruptly and precipitating a crisis, or by bailing out funds or companies that are in trouble.
 ''They could become either the source of the problem or part of the solution,'' said Edwin M. Truman, senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''When you have foreign governments holding stocks and bonds, not just Treasury securities, you have to ask whether they will be a stabilizing force or a destabilizing force.''
 Mr. Truman said it would be easy to imagine that in a future global crisis, Mr. Paulson might be calling not just central bankers but also the directors of sovereign wealth funds. ''He may be calling them right now, for all we know,'' he added. 
 The funds are a product of decades of the United States importing more than it exports. High energy prices have yielded trillions for oil and natural gas producers, from Norway and Russia to the Middle East, while the American thirst for imports of other goods and services has built up the reserves of China, Japan and other Asian exporters.
 The political furor over these funds so far has been limited. Efforts this year by China and Singapore to buy stakes in Barclays Bank in Britain, and by Qatar to take over Sainsbury's supermarket chain in Britain, have caused little stir in Britain.
 Neither Dubai's bid for Barney's, the American retailer, nor China's purchase of nearly a 10 percent stake in Blackstone this year has produced an outcry in the United States, although there has been some repercussion in China over the recent losses in the Blackstone investment.
 But in Germany, where there is concern about Russia's buying up pipelines and energy infrastructure and squeezing Europe for political gain, Chancellor Angela Merkel has warned that purchases by foreign governments or government-controlled companies pose a risk.
 ''How do we actually deal with funds in state hands?'' Ms. Merkel said at a news conference in July. ''This is a phenomenon which until now has not existed on such a scale.''
 Probably the most political turbulence caused by a sovereign wealth fund occurred when Temasek Holdings, the state-owned investment branch of Singapore, purchased a stake in the company owned by the prime minister of Thailand, Thaksin Shinawatra. The deal fed antigovernment demonstrations that led to his ouster in a coup in 2006.
 The worry is that beyond the possibility of foreign funds pushing up prices on bonds, stocks and real estate, they might exercise inappropriate control politically or in the private sphere.
 Mr. Truman of the Peterson Institute is one of many experts urging the United States, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to draw up codes of conduct that would keep politics out of investment decisions and require the funds to share information about the composition of their portfolios and their investment strategies.
 ''A government is a different type of animal in the investing world,'' he said. ''We call them sovereign wealth funds, but once you're operating outside your own borders, you're not sovereign in the same sense.''
 Others favor requiring the funds to place their investment decisions in the hands of nonpolitical managers.
 ''As Asian countries and petro states get rich, they certainly have the money to try to exert influence,'' said Kenneth S. Rogoff, professor of politics and public policy at Harvard. ''We don't want that influence to be channeled in a reckless way. There has to be transparency in company governance and financial governance to protect against it.''
 Mr. Paulson and the deputy Treasury secretary, Robert M. Kimmitt, have traveled to China, Russia and the Persian Gulf to urge top financial officials to adopt greater disclosure of their investment practices and to ban government subsidies or other forms of incentives for their overseas investment activities.
 The administration is also telling these countries they must open their properties to American investments if they want to invest in the United States.
 In an interview, Mr. Kimmitt said sovereign funds seemed to be acting on sound financial practices and not political motivations, at least so far. ''When I was in China and Russia, I was struck by the degree to which, although I was talking to government officials, it was like talking to asset managers,'' he said.
 Sovereign wealth funds have been around for decades. The Kuwait General Reserve Fund was established in 1960. The Abu Dhabi Investment Authority was established in the 1970s and today has investments totaling roughly $800 billion, making it the world's largest such fund.
 With $300 billion in its fund, Norway is seen by many financial experts as a model for disclosure of portfolio strategy, holdings and methods. But it is also unabashedly political, recently withdrawing its investment in Wal-Mart, citing accusations that the company has violated child-labor laws and scuttled efforts by employees to unionize.
 But China and Middle East countries have a long way to go before they are as transparent as Norway is. Some experts wonder what would happen if China took over an American pharmaceutical company and pressed for changes in prescription drug programs. Likewise, what would the reaction be if an Arab government demanded a bailout or tax break for its company in return for supporting peace talks in Iraq or Israel?
 ''If these funds buy into a big Fidelity mutual, they make standard kinds of investments that the Yale endowment makes,'' said Lawrence H. Summers, the economist who served as Treasury secretary and president of Harvard. ''But if they make more direct investments, they become meaningful actors in the economy, and that raises many more questions.''
 President Bush recently signed a bill to streamline the process of screening and possibly rejecting purchases of American companies by foreigners on national security grounds. But these account for only about 10 percent of such purchases, the Treasury Department says.
 A huge outcry resulted when a company controlled by Dubai tried to take over the management of several ports in the United States and when a Chinese-government-owned oil company sought to buy Unocal, suggesting that Americans might not accept increasing amounts of foreign government purchases.
 In both cases, the concern of American politicians was that national security assets were at stake. But in the 1980s, national security was not at risk when Americans recoiled over Japanese companies' purchases of high-profile properties like movie studios and Rockefeller Center.
 ''The Bush administration is right to look at this phenomenon, not with alarm but some attention,'' said Stephen Jen of Morgan Stanley. ''What needs to be more transparent is the strategy and governance of these funds, so you don't suspect of them some dark geopolitical strategy in their investments.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The chart shows the estimated sovereign investment funds controlled by government officials in the United Arab Emirates and in China. (Source: Peterson Institute for International Economics)(pg. C1) ''Largest Sovereign Funds'' Funds established since 2000 are in bold. Figures are from the end of 2006 or the most recent date available. *Estimates. Alaska Permanent Fund Many foreign governments have converted their debt into sovereign investment funds controlled by government officials. A look at funds worth $10 billion or more. (Source: Peterson Institute for International Economics)(pg. C5) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); DIVESTITURES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BONDS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); POLITICS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



364 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: More Students Finish School, Given the Time

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
Faced with 70,000 students or more who are years behind in obtaining the credits needed to graduate from high school, New York City is at the forefront of a movement to recognize that for a significant number, high school might stretch into five, six, even seven years. 
 In an effort that has expanded across Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's second term, the city has spent nearly $37 million to identify and cater to students who are at the biggest risk of dropping out and has already contracted for $31 million more in programs.
 The staggering numbers of those who are far behind cover almost a quarter of the city's public high school population -- students like Sunil Ragoonath, who at 18 had passed barely enough courses at John Adams High School in Queens to be considered a sophomore. He routinely skipped school. ''All I had to do was walk out the door,'' Mr. Ragoonath said recently.
 To get younger students who have failed many classes back on track, Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein has created more than two dozen ''transfer schools,'' and plans to open as many as 30 more over the next five years. The city also offers them intensive remedial courses. 
 For students past the traditional graduation age, the city has established special centers to provide counseling, night classes and an environment designed to avoid the stigma of being college age but in class with 14-year-olds. Some students also earn credits through summer school and community college classes.
 When the programs began in 2004, they were serving roughly 2,000 students. That number has since ballooned to more than 7,000. Many students will graduate this week, after spending the summer earning final credits.
 Mr. Ragoonath, now 19, plans to be one of them. Prodded by a guidance counselor, he enrolled last September in a center that runs night classes and promised him one last chance. Within months, he had earned a year's worth of credits. This summer, he toiled over economics online and attended a fiber optics class at Queensborough Community College. ''At last, I think I can say I am done,'' he said. 
 New York is not unique in the vast number of students who are at risk of dropping out. In many large urban school systems, students, particularly poor minority students, can be as likely to drop out as to graduate, a decision that can have lifelong consequences. The earnings of high school dropouts have declined nearly a third over the past three decades, according to Achieve Inc., a nonprofit group that helps states raise academic standards. For those with no diploma, median family income was $32,379 in 1974, compared with $22,476 in 2004, measured in 2004 dollars.
 Portland, Ore., Chicago and Boston are all using grants from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to study their own dropouts to start programs for students who have fallen woefully behind. 
 But nowhere is the effort as far along as in New York City. ''The first thing we had to understand was how many kids were over age and off track -- just to know the real size of the challenge we are dealing with,'' said Adam Tucker, a program officer with the Gates Foundation, which gave New York a grant to study dropouts. Most of the city's programs for dropouts are financed with taxpayer dollars. 
 New York officials acknowledge that students should complete high school in four years. But they consider every diploma a victory since the city's four-year graduation rate hovers at 50 percent despite an uptick in recent years. For all students, the efforts end at 21, when the school system is no longer required by state law to educate them. 
 The push for alternatives came in part because of a lawsuit from a nonprofit group, Advocates for Children, which charged that many lagging students were being pushed out of school against their will. The suit was settled, and schools now conduct ''exit interviews'' with students who want to leave the system and suggest alternatives. 
 When officials began studying the problem in detail two years ago, there was only sketchy information about who these failing students were. New York commissioned a $2.6 million effort by the Parthenon Group, a Boston consulting firm, to find out more about those who left without diplomas. 
 With its data in hand, the officials roughly divide students into two groups. Younger students who are far behind enter the transfer schools, where smaller class sizes allow for personal attention. Students older than 17 who have enough credits to be considered at least a sophomore are sent to ''young adult borough centers.'' They take classes in traditional high schools, but at night, and with more individual attention. 
 ''If I have a problem in class, I can go to the teacher and talk about it, not just sulk around,'' said Monica Lopardo, 18, who transferred to the center affiliated with Lincoln High School in Brooklyn last year and expects to graduate in January. 
 School officials are convinced that with enough creativity, they can cobble together schedules to give the students the full platter of classes. ''The transcripts come in a bit of a mess,'' said Michele Cahill of the Carnegie Corporation, who created these alternative programs when she worked for Mr. Klein. ''There are some who are missing all their gym classes but have passed three years of math.'' 
 For those who work with these students, one of the most difficult tasks is convincing them that they can, and should, finish high school. ''These are students who are really frustrated and ready to be out,'' said Edita Volovodovskaya, who runs the John Adams Young Adult Borough Center, which is attached to John Adams High School. ''But it takes a lot of work. They weren't always willing to take a full load; they weren't always willing to show up to class.'' 
 That was precisely how David Dorsey behaved when he first started at the center. He was already 19 and half-heartedly thought he would have another shot at a diploma. But there were long stretches when he did not bother to show up. Then his phone would begin to ring. His counselor, a social worker from a local community center, called every day that he was absent. 
 ''Finally I decided to pick up the phone, and this woman is on the other end saying, 'Where are you? Get in here,' '' Mr. Dorsey said. ''I just decided to show up to get her off my back -- otherwise she was going to be on my phone bill a lot.'' He graduated at 21 and has now finished a semester at La Guardia Community College. 
 Night school also helps with the frustration of being older than classmates in traditional high schools. ''You start to feel like an old man with little kids,'' said Christian Alvarenga, who moved from regular school at John Adams to the night program after his fifth year of high school.
 The embarrassment diminishes when students attend the borough centers. But they are still keenly aware that they are behind schedule. 
 Camry Petillo, 21, who finished the John Adams program in June, decided to forgo graduation. ''I didn't feel like I had a lot to celebrate,'' she said. ''I knew I should have been up there years ago.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Dorsey, 22, with a diploma, and his mother, Lydia. He said of a counselor, ''I just decided to show up to get her off my back.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



365 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: '05 Incomes, On Average, Still Below 2000 Peak

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Americans earned a smaller average income in 2005 than in 2000, the fifth consecutive year that they had to make ends meet with less money than at the peak of the last economic expansion, new government data shows.
 While incomes have been on the rise since 2002, the average income in 2005 was $55,238, still nearly 1 percent less than the $55,714 in 2000, after adjusting for inflation, analysis of new tax statistics show. 
 The combined income of all Americans in 2005 was slightly larger than it was in 2000, but because more people were dividing up the national income pie, the average remained smaller. Total adjusted gross income in 2005 was $7.43 trillion, up 3.1 percent from 2000 and 5.8 percent from 2004. 
 Total income listed on tax returns grew every year after World War II, with a single one-year exception, until 2001, making the five-year period of lower average incomes and four years of lower total incomes a new experience for the majority of Americans born since 1945.
 The White House said the fact that average incomes were smaller five years after the Internet bubble burst ''should not surprise anyone.'' 
 The growth in total incomes was concentrated among those making more than $1 million. The number of such taxpayers grew by more than 26 percent, to 303,817 in 2005, from 239,685 in 2000. 
 These individuals, who constitute less than a quarter of 1 percent of all taxpayers, reaped almost 47 percent of the total income gains in 2005, compared with 2000. 
 People with incomes of more than a million dollars also received 62 percent of the savings from the reduced tax rates on long-term capital gains and dividends that President Bush signed into law in 2003, according to a separate analysis by Citizens for Tax Justice, a group that points out policies that it says favor the rich.
 The group's calculations showed that 28 percent of the investment tax cut savings went to just 11,433 of the 134 million taxpayers, those who made $10 million or more, saving them almost $1.9 million each. Over all, this small number of wealthy Americans saved $21.7 billion in taxes on their investment income as a result of the tax-cut law. 
 The nearly 90 percent of Americans who make less than $100,000 a year saved on average $318 each on their investments. They collected 5.3 percent of the total savings from reduced tax rates on investment income.
 The I.R.S. data showed that the number of Americans making less than $25,000 a year shrank, down by 3.2 million, or 5.5 percent. 
 Nearly half of Americans reported incomes of less than $30,000, and two-thirds make less than $50,000.
 The number of taxpayers making more than $100,000 grew by nearly 3.4 million and accounted for more than two-thirds of the growth in the number of returns filed in 2005 compared with those in 2000.
 The fact that average incomes remained lower in 2005 than five years earlier helps explain why so many Americans report feeling economic stress despite overall growth in the economy. Many Americans are also paying a larger share of their health care costs and have had their retirement benefits reduced, adding to their out-of-pocket costs.
 The White House noted that during the same five years, income tax rates have been cut under a series of laws sponsored by President Bush. Mr. Bush has delivered a steady stream of upbeat assessments of the economy, saying last fall, for example, ''I'm pleased with the economic progress we're making.''
 Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman, attributed the drop in average incomes to ''the significant wrenching hits that our economy took in 2001 and 2002, so no one should be surprised that what a bubble economy created in the late 1990s and 2000, where economic data were skewed, would take some time to recover.''
 Mr. Fratto said the fact that nearly all of the growth in incomes was among those in the upper reaches of the income ladder and that the majority of investment tax breaks went to those making more than $1 million ''is not a very interesting story.''
 ''There is no question that you will always have distributional concerns with a tax rate, a broad-based tax rate, at the very top of the income scale,'' Mr. Fratto said. 
 He said the more significant issue was the reduction in taxes for middle-class Americans that Mr. Bush won from Congress.
 Robert S. McIntyre, the director of Citizens for Tax Justice, said that even though he expected a few very wealthy people to reap most of the tax savings generated by lower tax rates on dividends and capital gains, the size of the savings ''still takes your breath away.''
 He said the tax savings at the top, combined with lower average incomes after five years, ''shows that trickle down doesn't work.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''Lagging Behind'' Average incomes in 2005 were still below where they were in 2000, after adjusting for inflation. (Source: Internal Revenue Service)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); LEGISLATION (72%); WORLD WAR II (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



366 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Up in July, Offsetting Decrease in June

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Conference Board said yesterday that its index of leading economic indicators, a closely watched gauge of future economic activity, rose 0.4 percent in July, after falling 0.3 percent in June. 
 The report aims at forecasting economic activity over the next three to six months.
 The index has bounced over the last few months, reflecting uncertainty in an economy roiled by a credit squeeze. The offsetting gains and drops suggest that economic growth is likely to continue, but at a slower pace. With the latest report, the cumulative change in the index over the last six months is a 0.1 percent increase.
 The movement of the index over the last few months mirrors the volatility of the financial markets, said Aaron Smith, senior economist with Moody'sEconomy.com.
 While July's pickup is in line with the 3.4 percent growth of United States economic output in the spring, the main drivers for the latest index -- consumer confidence and jobless claims -- may dip in August, Mr. Smith said.
 The recent crisis in the financial markets ''has yet to manifest itself in the data,'' he said.
 Yesterday's upbeat report follows the Federal Reserve's decision on Friday to cut its discount rate by a half-percentage point. The move was meant to stabilize financial markets pummeled by a rapidly spreading credit crisis. 
 The Conference Board report tracks 10 economic indicators. The advancing components in July were consumer expectations, vendor performance, unemployment claims, real money supply, stock prices and manufacturers' orders for consumer goods and materials.
 The negative contributors were housing permits, manufacturers' new orders for nonmilitary capital goods and interest rate spread. Weekly manufacturing hours held steady.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''Leading Indicators'' An index of 10 economic indicators of the Conference Board that are intended to predict overall economic activity
 1996 =100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); NEW ORDERS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



367 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Trade Panel Supports Request To Put Duties on Chinese Tires

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
Titan International, the biggest American maker of off-road tires, won an initial ruling from the federal government in its bid to have duties imposed on $340 million worth of similar tires from China. 
 The United States International Trade Commission, in a 6-to-0 vote, said Titan and other American producers, as well as union workers, were being harmed by the low-cost Chinese imports. The decision is the first of four that must go in favor of domestic producers before duties, of as much as 210 percent, are levied.
 The companies say the Chinese producers of the tires, which are used on irrigation equipment and tractors and other vehicles, are dumping their product at cheap prices in the United States and are getting illegal subsidies from the Chinese government.
 The case shows how American manufacturers are using a change in policy to ask for higher duties on many imports.
 That change came in March, when the Commerce Department said it would allow the imposition of countervailing duties to balance subsidies for products in nonmarket economies like China.
 ''Petitioners had been gun-shy, but now the path has been cleared for them,'' said Daniel J. Ikenson, a trade policy analyst at the Cato Institute in Washington. 
 Titan, based in Quincy, Ill., was supported in its petition by the American arm of Bridgestone, the world's largest tire maker, and by the United Steelworkers union, which represents workers at tire factories.
 The commission's ruling is preliminary, and the panel will have to vote again next year on whether to affirm that decision.
 The Commerce Department will also decide this year whether those Chinese companies are dumping their products and getting subsidies, and, if so, how steep the duties should be. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TIRES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); TIRE MFG (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); PETITIONS (77%); IMPORT PRICES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%)

COMPANY: TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); CATO INSTITUTE (55%)

TICKER: TWI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



368 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: HSBC in Talks to Acquire Big Stake in a Korean Bank

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
HSBC Holdings said Monday that it was in talks with a Texas-based private equity fund, Lone Star Funds, to buy a majority stake in Korea Exchange Bank, which would give HSBC a long-sought retail banking network in one of Asia's largest economies.
 In a short statement posted with the Hong Kong stock exchange, HSBC said that its subsidiary, the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, was in talks ''about the possible acquisition of a majority stake in Korea Exchange Bank.'' 
 Lone Star had no immediate comment, although it had said earlier that it was talking with several potential buyers.
 HSBC's announcement of the potential deal -- valued at about $4.5 billion -- is a vote of confidence in Asian markets and banks, which have been rocked recently by the subprime mortgage crisis in the United States, analysts said. 
 The negotiations suggest that the exposure of South Korean banks to investments linked to risky mortgages in the United States is limited, said Lee Jun-jae, an analyst at Korea Investment and Securities.
 ''Recent market uncertainty over subprime mortgages must have been a concern for HSBC in its talks over Korea Exchange,'' Mr. Lee said. ''It is noteworthy that it still went ahead and announced its intention. It means HSBC doesn't see a big problem there.''
 Lone Star is one of several private equity funds that bought distressed South Korean companies in the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. Lone Star bought 50.5 percent of Korea Exchange for $1.5 billion in 2003 and later increased its total stake to 64.6 percent, reaping huge gains as the economy recovered. In June, it sold a 13.6 percent stake worth $1.3 billion to buyers including the Hana Financial Group of South Korea. It still holds 51 percent.
 Lone Star has been trying to cash out its investment, but it has been engaged in protracted legal battles with South Korean prosecutors. 
 Last November, Lone Star canceled a $7.4 billion deal to sell its entire stake to South Korea's top lender, Kookmin Bank, complaining about an investigation of its operations here by local prosecutors. DBS, a Singapore bank, had held talks with Lone Star about a possible purchase but ended negotiations, hinting at legal issues. 
 South Korean prosecutors brought charges against six people last year, including a former Korea Exchange president, accusing them of manipulating the bank's financial data to help Lone Star acquire the bank in 2003 at a price that was less than fair. 
 Lone Star denies any involvement. South Korean financial regulators say they will wait for a final court ruling before deciding whether to approve any sale of Korea Exchange.
 Hong Jin-pyo, an analyst at Good Morning Shinhan Securities, said the local regulators would probably approve Lone Star's sale of its stake, regardless of the outcome of the court case. 
 ''But if the case drags on, it will help HSBC in its negotiations,'' Mr. Hong said.
 Foreign banks have recently sought acquisitions as a means to expand in South Korea. Standard Chartered beat out HSBC to acquire Korea First Bank in 2005. 
 ''HSBC wants to expand its presence in Asia,'' said Ku Yong-uk, an analyst at Daewoo Securities in Seoul. ''But in South Korea it could not get a full banking operation license and was only able to open branch offices mainly for individual customers. This deal, if it goes through, will give HSBC a network to enter full-fledged banking service in South Korea.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (85%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); RETAIL BANKING (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (94%); KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (93%); LONE STAR FUNDS (91%); KB FINANCIAL GROUP INC (63%); HANA FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); KOOKMIN BANK (52%); GOOD MORNING SHINHAN SECURITIES CO LTD (50%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (94%); HSB (PAR) (94%); HBC (NYSE) (94%); 0005 (HKSE) (94%); 004940 (KSE) (93%); KB (NYSE) (63%); 105560 (KSE) (63%); 086790 (KSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (91%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (56%) TEXAS, USA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); HONG KONG (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



369 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; ; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-11
 Chinese Business in Africa Is Double-Edged Sword
 China's hunger for resources has helped push some of Africa's poorest countries up the ladder of development. But China is also exporting finished manufactured goods to those same countries, hampering their ability to develop diverse economies. A1 
 Iraq Governor Assassinated 
 An Iraqi provincial governor, Mohammed Ali al-Hassani, was assassinated by a roadside bomb in an attack that officials said was a result of an internal power struggle with rival Shiite militias. A11 
 The chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, completing a two-day tour of Iraq, said that the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki should be voted from office because it has proved incapable of reaching the political compromises required to end violence there. A11 
 Storm Reaches Category 5
 Hurricane Dean gained strength, attained category 5 and surged toward Mexico, after battering the south coast of Jamaica and leaving a trail of destruction across the Caribbean. A8 Talks on Border Provisions
 President Bush met with Prime Minister Stephen Harper of Canada and President Felipe Calderon of Mexico to discuss trade and border issues, but major accomplishments appeared unlikely as Mr. Calderon planned to leave the meeting to deal with the hurricane. A7 
 Korean Party Picks Candidate
 South Korea's main opposition party chose a former mayor of Seoul, Lee Myung-bak, as its presidential candidate, making him the front-runner to succeed President Roh Moo-hyun. A8 
 Civics by Way of the Koran
 The British government hopes that a pilot civics curriculum now being taught in mosques in Bradford will eventually replace the sometimes hard-core religious lessons taught in many mosques across England and will help prevent Islamic extremism. A3 
 NATIONALA12-17 
 New Standards May Limit Child Health Care Program
 The Bush administration, continuing its fight to stop states from expanding the Children's Health Insurance Program, has adopted new standards that would make it more difficult for New York, California and others to extend coverage to children in middle-income families. A1 Indiana Fair Bans Trans Fats
 The Great Indiana State Fair has banned oils with trans fats, the latest in a string of similar measures. But this is perhaps the most unlikely locale yet: the nation's classic summer fair, long seen as one final haven from the health police. A1 
 Storms Kill at Least 20
 Fierce storms that deluged widely separated parts of the country from the upper Mississippi to Texas have caused at least 20 deaths since last week, the authorities said. New rain threatened further flooding in southeastern Minnesota and adjacent Wisconsin. A12 
 Illegal Immigrant Deported
 Federal authorities said the deporting of a Mexican woman who had sought refuge in churches while being an advocate for illegal immigrant families did not signal a crackdown on religious groups that provide aid to illegal immigrants. A14 Senator Warns White House
 Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, threatened to pursue possible contempt charges against the White House next month over its slow response to a subpoena for documents on the National Security Agency's domestic surveillance program. A16 Clinton Speaks to Veterans
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton told an audience of war veterans that some elements of the strategy in Iraq appeared to be achieving success but said a military solution was unattainable and that the best way to honor the service of American troops was to ''bring them home.'' A16 
 NEW YORK/REGIONA19-20
 On the Five-Year Plan, And Still in High School
 New York City's schools, faced with 70,000 students who are years behind in obtaining the credits needed to graduate from high school, are at the forefront of a movement to recognize that for a significant number of students, high school might stretch into five, six, even seven years. A1 
 Closed Valve Aided Fire
 Investigators have found that a standpipe valve between the basement and the first floor of the Deutsche Bank building was shut, effectively cutting off the only source of water for firefighters battling Saturday's blaze on the upper floors, according to a fire official. A19 
 SPORTSTUESDAYC11-14
 N.F.L. Star Pleads Guilty
 Michael Vick, the star quarterback of the Atlanta Falcons, agreed to plead guilty to dogfighting charges on Monday in a deal with federal prosecutors that most likely will land him in prison while he is in the prime of his N.F.L. career. A1 
 SCIENCE TIMESD1-8
 New Gender Theory Inflames
 A psychologist at Northwestern University, has promoted a theory that some people born male who want to cross genders are driven by an erotic fascination with themselves as women. It is a theory that critics, including a few prominent transgendered academics, think is inaccurate and potentially damaging to transgender women.D1
 Maya Agriculture Uncovered
 Archaeologists, excavating a buried Maya village in El Salvador, reported the discovery of the remains of a field of cultivated manioc that grew 1,400 years ago. They said this might explain how the Classic Maya supported such dense populations.D2
 Health & FitnessD5
 BUSINESS DAYC1-10
 Vioxx Suits in Limbo
 The drug maker Merck has yet to give any money to anyone who sued it claiming its painkiller, Vioxx, caused the death of a family member. The lawsuits are in a state of legal limbo, with little prospect of resolution. A1 
 Business DigestC2
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: Not paying for medical errors; another deadly tower downtown; losing patience; Carolyn Curiel on the smackdown between speechwriters for President Bush.
 Columns: Bob Herbert and Gail Collins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); FAMILY (89%); RELIGION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (87%); OILS & FATS (85%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); CURRICULA (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); WEATHER (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (64%); HEALTH CARE (62%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (62%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (87%); FELIPE CALDERON (66%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); STEPHEN HARPER (54%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (76%) INDIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CANADA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAMAICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



370 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Democrats, Blaming a Hands-Off Approach, Press for Action to Aid Homeowners

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
Democrats in Congress and on the presidential campaign trail are seizing on the turmoil in mortgages to criticize the Bush administration's laissez-faire approach to what they believe is a spreading crisis.
 In contrast with the administration's largely hands-off approach, Democrats are seeking more aggressive, interventionist moves to protect homeowners. 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, the chairman of the Banking Committee who is seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, has summoned Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and the chairman of the Federal Reserve to a meeting on Tuesday to discuss steps to stabilize the markets and stave off home foreclosures. 
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, the Democratic front-runner, recently proposed a $1 billion fund to help distressed families catch up on their mortgage payments. In an open letter to President Bush, Mrs. Clinton attacked the president for appearing to minimize the magnitude of problems facing homeowners.
 John Edwards, the former senator from North Carolina, is proposing a similar bailout fund and has argued that federal regulators should force mortgage lenders to restructure the terms on many of their loans.
 In Congress, Democratic lawmakers are pushing for changes -- and potentially big clashes with the Bush administration -- on at least two broad fronts.
 Many lawmakers want to let Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant government-sponsored lenders that bundle mortgages into tradable securities, to buy and hold more mortgages than they are now allowed. 
 The Bush administration and the Federal Reserve have both pushed in the opposite direction for years, arguing that the two companies had been borrowing money at dangerously high levels by exploiting an implied guarantee of federal support in the event of a financial meltdown.
 Democrats are also pressing for much tougher regulation of mortgage lenders and brokers. Some have called for stricter rules against what they call deceptive and unfair practices, such as big penalties for paying off a loan early or ''teaser'' interest rates that start off low but rise sharply after two or three years.
 Others have proposed rules that would shield homeowners from foreclosure if they declare bankruptcy, or that would allow regulators to force mortgage lenders into rewriting the terms of loans that prove impossible to meet.
 For the most part, Democrats complain that the administration is being overly passive about the credit crunch. 
 ''I am concerned that your public statements may belie the significance of the current challenges,'' Mrs. Clinton wrote in her letter to Mr. Bush, dated Friday. ''Your statements may signal an unwillingness from the administration to consider even modest and sensible options that could help bring some stability to the housing market.''
 At a meeting with reporters on Aug. 8, Mr. Bush said the housing market was in the midst of a ''necessary reaction'' to a flood of cheap money in recent years that had pumped up housing prices to excessive levels.
 In general, the Bush administration and the Fed have supported a hands-off regulatory policy as banks and mortgage lending companies developed an array of subprime mortgages for people with poor credit and exotic loans that allowed people to borrow without putting any money down, or to qualify for mortgages without documenting their incomes. 
 Although the Fed and other bank regulatory agencies have recently tightened their guidelines for underwriting mortgages, the regulators have been reluctant to restrict what they viewed as potentially important sources of financing that could benefit people with low incomes.
 Congressional Democrats have been ratcheting up calls for tighter regulation, and even the possibility of bailouts for distressed homeowners. 
 Although Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Edwards have both proposed a fund to help homeowners, the focus in Congress has been on expanding the ability of government-sponsored companies like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to finance more home loans.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York and Senator Dodd have both proposed raising the caps on the volume of mortgages that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can hold in their own portfolios.
 Both companies package mortgages into securities that can be sold on Wall Street and into world financial markets. But the companies also hold millions of mortgages in their own portfolios. Under current regulations, the companies are each allowed to keep about $700 billion in mortgages, and neither has much room to acquire more loans. Democrats contend that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could provide a crucial source of refinancing for people trying to extricate themselves from unmanageable loans. 
 But the Fed and the Treasury Department have argued that the two companies' portfolios have effectively become government-sponsored behemoths that crowd out private lenders and could pose big risks to taxpayers if their holdings plunged in value.
 The Democrats' broader agenda is to impose tougher regulation on lenders and the giant financial institutions that supply them with capital
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said the ''silver lining'' of the implosion in mortgage lending was that it had demolished the reflexive opposition to regulation of almost any kind.
 ''Anyone opposing more regulation can no longer say, 'if it ain't broke, don't fix it,' '' Mr. Frank told reporters last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); HOME PRICES (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (59%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



371 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Letters: Risky Loans and a Jittery Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Credit Time Bomb Ticked, but Few Heard'' (front page, Aug. 19):
 We in the United States, at the middle-class level, are conditioned to live beyond our means.
 ''We have a great economy'' -- the slogan of any administration of any stripe -- is based on our entrenched credit living. 
 Just wait a few years, and we'll see how the debt we've incurred for the war in Iraq -- which has filled the pockets of the few -- will blow up in the face of our self-proclaimed prosperous economy and devastate the backbone of this nation. 
 Brahama D. Sharma Pismo Beach, Calif., Aug. 19, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Frankly, I don't feel much sympathy for those financiers who are suffering as a result of the subprime mortgage mess.
 After all, they are the financial sophisticates who went along, knowing that the emperor had no clothes: mortgages were being offered to people who could qualify only for the initial teaser rates, and payments were virtually guaranteed to rise to budget-busting levels for these vulnerable consumers.
 Now comes the prospect of 1.7 million households losing their homes to foreclosures this year and next. It seems clear that the holders of these financially nonviable mortgages should bear some degree of responsibility. 
 As our government considers a response, why not go back to the sanity of reasonable mortgage underwriting from the past, limiting mortgage payments to 28 percent of gross income, based on a current tax return.
 Mark Silberman Chappaqua, N.Y., Aug. 19, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Fearing Slide in Economy, Fed Cuts Its Discount Rate'' (front page, Aug. 18):
 In a matter of days, the Federal Reserve can cut interest rates and pump billions of dollars into the system to protect hedge funds, disproportionately benefiting the wealthiest investors.
 Why is it that redressing the situations of Katrina victims, people living in poverty, people working for minimum wages, the homeless, the uninsured and the unemployed (to mention but a few) takes years, even decades, of effort, if it ever does happen? 
 How did attention to our common good become such a low priority in the United States? 
 The spin that protecting ''free markets'' and the liquidity of the wealthy leads to a healthier economy is not borne out by the facts, but the societal costs of having millions living in poverty and despair are quite apparent and documented. 
 Marion L. McCoy Rockville, Md., Aug. 18, 2007
 To the Editor:
 The only people who benefit from a rate cut by the Federal Reserve are billionaires on Wall Street. 
 I was recently informed that the rate on my credit card was jumping from 9.9 percent to 19.24 percent. When I tried to cancel the card, the bank then informed me that the account would remain open until the balance was zero. 
 Congress does nothing to protect the working person, but everything to protect the big banks. How come consumers, who prop up our debt economy, do not receive the same rate of borrowing as do the banks? 
 And why doesn't Congress enact laws against predatory lending and usurious interest rates by these institutions? 
 Victoria Minetta Hollywood, Calif., Aug. 18, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Watershed'' (editorial, Aug. 19):
 My perhaps naive take is that the Federal Reserve should have raised, rather than lowered, its lending rate, for two reasons:
 First, we need to issue a warning to financiers that they won't get away with injudicious lending, and that the Fed will let the markets fall to punish them.
 Second, we need to reward savers and encourage those willing to buy debt. 
 John P. Tiernan Bedford, N.Y., Aug. 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); BUDGETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); IRAQ WAR (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FORECLOSURE (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); MINIMUM WAGE (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009



372 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1983 words

HEADLINE: Criticism of a Gender Theory, And a Scientist Under Siege

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
In academic feuds, as in war, there is no telling how far people will go once the shooting starts.
 Earlier this month, members of the International Academy of Sex Research, gathering for their annual meeting in Vancouver, informally discussed one of the most contentious and personal social science controversies in recent memory. 
 The central figure, J. Michael Bailey, a psychologist at Northwestern University, has promoted a theory that his critics think is inaccurate, insulting and potentially damaging to transgender women. In the past few years, several prominent academics who are transgender have made a series of accusations against the psychologist, including that he committed ethics violations. A transgender woman he wrote about has accused him of a sexual impropriety, and Dr. Bailey has become a reviled figure for some in the gay and transgender communities.
 To many of Dr. Bailey's peers, his story is a morality play about the corrosive effects of political correctness on academic freedom. Some scientists say that it has become increasingly treacherous to discuss politically sensitive issues. They point to several recent cases, like that of Helmuth Nyborg, a Danish researcher who was fired in 2006 after he caused a furor in the press by reporting a slight difference in average I.Q. test scores between the sexes. 
 ''What happened to Bailey is important, because the harassment was so extraordinarily bad and because it could happen to any researcher in the field,'' said Alice Dreger, an ethics scholar and patients' rights advocate at Northwestern who, after conducting a lengthy investigation of Dr. Bailey's actions, has concluded that he is essentially blameless. ''If we're going to have research at all, then we're going to have people saying unpopular things, and if this is what happens to them, then we've got problems not only for science but free expression itself.''
 To Dr. Bailey's critics, his story is a different kind of morality tale.
 ''Nothing we have done, I believe, and certainly nothing I have done, overstepped any boundaries of fair comment on a book and an author who stepped into the public arena with enthusiasm to deliver a false and unscientific and politically damaging opinion,'' Deirdre McCloskey, a professor of economics, history, English, and communication at the University of Illinois at Chicago, and one of Dr. Bailey's principal critics, said in an e-mail message.
 The hostilities began in the spring of 2003, when Dr. Bailey published a book, ''The Man Who Would Be Queen,'' intended to explain the biology of sexual orientation and gender to a general audience. 
 ''The next two years,'' Dr. Bailey said in an interview, ''were the hardest of my life.''
 Many sex researchers who have worked with Dr. Bailey say that he is a solid scientist and collaborator, who by his own admission enjoys violating intellectual taboos. 
 In his book, he argued that some people born male who want to cross genders are driven primarily by an erotic fascination with themselves as women. This idea runs counter to the belief, held by many men who decide to live as women, that they are the victims of a biological mistake -- in essence, women trapped in men's bodies. Dr. Bailey described the alternate theory, which is based on Canadian studies done in the 1980s and 1990s, in part by telling the stories of several transgender women he met through a mutual acquaintance. In the book, he gave them pseudonyms, like ''Alma'' and ''Juanita.''
 Other scientists praised the book as a compelling explanation of the science. The Lambda Literary Foundation, an organization that promotes gay, bisexual and transgender literature, nominated the book for an award. 
 But days after the book appeared, Lynn Conway, a prominent computer scientist at the University of Michigan, sent out an e-mail message comparing Dr. Bailey's views to Nazi propaganda. She and other transgender women found the tone of the book abusive, and the theory of motivation it presented to be a recipe for further discrimination. 
 Dr. Conway did not respond to requests for an interview.
 Dr. Ben Barres, a neurobiologist at Stanford, said in reference to Dr. Bailey's thesis in the book, ''Bailey seems to make a living by claiming that the things people hold most deeply true are not true.'' 
 At a public meeting of sex researchers shortly after the book's publication, Dr. John Bancroft, then director of the Kinsey Institute for Research in Sex, Gender and Reproduction, said to Dr. Bailey, ''Michael, I have read your book, and I do not think it is science,'' according to accounts of the meeting. Dr. Bancroft confirmed the comment.
 The backlash soon turned from the book to its author. 
 After consulting with Dr. Conway, four of the transgender women who spoke to Dr. Bailey during his reporting for the book wrote letters to Northwestern, complaining that they had been used as research subjects without having given, or been asked to sign, written consent. 
 One wrote a letter making another accusation against Dr. Bailey: she claimed he had had sex with her.
 Dr. Conway and Dr. McCloskey also wrote letters to Northwestern, accusing Dr. Bailey of grossly violating scientific standards ''by conducting intimate research observations on human subjects without telling them that they were objects of the study.'' 
 They also wrote to the Illinois state regulators, requesting that they investigate Dr. Bailey for practicing psychology without a license. Dr. Bailey, who was not licensed to practice clinical psychology in Illinois, had provided some of those who helped him with the book with brief case evaluation letters, suggesting that they were good candidates for sex-reassignment surgery. A spokesman for the state said that regulators took no action on the complaints.
 In an interview, Dr. Bailey said that nothing he did was wrong or unethical. ''I interviewed people for a book,'' he said. ''This is a free society, and that should be allowed.''
 But by the end of 2003, the controversy had a life of its own on the Internet. Dr. Conway, the computer scientist, kept a running chronicle of the accusations against Dr. Bailey on her Web site. Any Google search of Dr. Bailey's name brought up Dr. Conway's site near the top of the list. 
 The site also included a link to the Web page of another critic of Dr. Bailey's book, Andrea James, a Los Angeles-based transgender advocate and consultant. Ms. James downloaded images from Dr. Bailey's Web site of his children, taken when they were in middle and elementary school, and posted them on her own site, with sexually explicit captions that she provided. (Dr. Bailey is a divorced father of two.) Ms. James said in an e-mail message that Dr. Bailey's work exploited vulnerable people, especially children, and that her response echoed his disrespect. 
 Dr. Dreger is the latest to arrive at the battlefront. She is a longtime advocate for people born with ambiguous sexuality and has been strongly critical of sex researchers in the past. She said she had presumed that Dr. Bailey was guilty and, after meeting him through a mutual friend, had decided to investigate for herself. 
 But in her just-completed account, due to be published next year in The Archives of Sexual Behavior, the field's premier journal, she concluded that the accusations against the psychologist were essentially groundless. 
 For example, Dr. Dreger found that two of the four women who complained to Northwestern of research violations were not portrayed in the book at all. The two others did know their stories would be used, as they themselves said in their letters to Northwestern. 
 The accusation of sexual misconduct came five years after the fact, and was not possible to refute or confirm, Dr. Dreger said. It specified a date in 1998 when Dr. Bailey was at his ex-wife's house, looking after their children, according to dated e-mail messages between the psychologist and his ex-wife, Dr. Dreger found. 
 The transgender woman who made the complaint said through a friend that she stood by the accusation but did not want to talk about it.
 Moreover, based on her own reading of federal regulations, Dr. Dreger, whose report can be viewed at www.bioethics.northwestern.edu, argued that the book did not qualify as scientific research. The federal definition describes ''a systematic investigation, including research development, testing and evaluation.''
 Dr. Bailey used the people in his book as anecdotes, not as the subjects of a systematic investigation, she reported.
 ''The bottom line is that they tried to ruin this guy, and they almost succeeded,'' Dr. Dreger said.
 Dr. Dreger's report began to circulate online last week, and Dr. Bailey's critics already have attacked it as being biased.
 For their part, Northwestern University administrators began an investigation of Dr. Bailey's research in later 2003 (there is no evidence that they investigated the sex complaint). 
 The inquiry, which lasted almost a year, brought research to a near standstill in Dr. Bailey's laboratory, and clouded his name among some other researchers, according to people who worked with the psychologist. 
 ''That was the worst blow of all, that we didn't get much support'' from Northwestern, said Gerulf Rieger, a graduate student of Dr. Bailey's at the time, and now a lecturer at Northwestern. ''They were quite scared and not very professional, I thought.''
 A spokesman for the university declined to comment on the investigation, which concluded in 2004.
 One collaborator broke with Dr. Bailey over the controversy, Dr. Bailey said. Others who remained loyal said doing so had a cost: two researchers said they were advised by a government grant officer that they should distance themselves from Dr. Bailey to improve their chances of receiving financing. 
 ''He told me it would be better if I played down any association with Bailey,'' said Khytam Dawood, a psychologist at Pennsylvania State University. 
 Dr. Bailey said that the first weeks of the backlash were the worst. He tried not to think about the accusations, he said, but would wake up in the middle of the night unable to think of anything else. He took anti-anxiety pills for a while. He began to worry about losing his job. He said that friends and family supported him but that some colleagues were afraid to speak up in his defense. 
 ''They saw what I was going through, I think, and wanted no part of it,'' he said. 
 The fog of war, which can overwhelm the senses of real soldiers, can also descend on academic feuds, and it seems to have done so on this one. 
 In October 2004, Dr. Bailey stepped down as chairman of the psychology department. He declined to say why, and a spokesman for Northwestern would say only that the change in status had nothing to do with the book. 
 These unknowns seem if anything to have extended the life of the controversy, which still simmers online. 
 ''I think for me, for the work I do, honestly, I don't really care what his theories are,'' said Mara Keisling, executive director of the National Center for Transgender Equality, of Dr. Bailey. ''But I do want to feel like any theories that affect the lives of so many people are based in good science, and that they're presented responsibly.''
 But that, say supporters of Dr. Bailey, is precisely the problem: Who defines responsible? And at what cost is that definition violated?
 It is perhaps fitting that the history of this conflict, which caught fire online, is being written and revised continually in the online encyclopedia Wikipedia, which is compiled and corrected by users. The reference site provides a lengthy entry on Dr. Bailey, but a section titled ''Research Misconduct,'' which posts some of the accusations Dr. Dreger reviewed, includes a prominent warning. 
 It reads: ''The neutrality of this section is disputed.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: J. Michael Bailey's book about gender enraged some transgender women. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F1)
Alice Dreger, an ethics scholar, investigated the accusations against Dr. Bailey.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Some colleagues distanced themselves from Dr. Bailey after the accusations began. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Deirdre McCloskey called opposition to Dr. Bailey's theory ''fair comment.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ETHICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (89%); HISTORY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SEX SCANDALS (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); WRITERS (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (68%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Man Who Would Be Queen, The (Book)>; Man Who Would Be Queen, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



373 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Releases a Suspect Accused of Ties to Al Qaeda

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20 

 BODY:
A Pakistani man accused of aiding Al Qaeda and imprisoned in his home country for three years, has been released, according to The Associated Press, and American officials made clear their dismay at the news on Monday. 
 The Americans declined to speak for the record about the release of the man, Muhammad Naeem Noor Khan, apparently out of reluctance to criticize Pakistan, which has generally worked closely with the United States in counterterrorism efforts. 
 ''He most definitely had terrorist links,'' an American intelligence official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the American case against Mr. Khan was classified.
 No reason was given for Mr. Khan's release, and it was unclear whether the government freed him because it did not believe he had committed a crime. 
 Mr. Khan was arrested in Lahore in July 2004 during a joint Pakistani-British raid. Soon after his arrest, Pakistani and American authorities said they had found files on his computer that led to the raising of the terrorism alert level in the United States. 
 The authorities said the files included surveillance information on the World Bank and International Monetary Fund in Washington, the Citigroup Tower and New York Stock Exchange in Manhattan and the Prudential Building in Newark.
 Gonzalo Gallegos, a State Department spokesman, said Monday that the department had no comment for now about the Pakistani action.
 It appeared unlikely that the United States would try to take unilateral action to take Mr. Khan into custody. Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the United States has on several occasions arrested terrorism suspects in Pakistan and taken them to secret prisons run by the Central Intelligence Agency. 
 But those prisons for high-level terrorist suspects have generally been reserved for detainees believed to have intelligence about terrorist plots in the works, not for people like Mr. Khan, who has been in custody. Pakistani officials have said that information from Mr. Khan led them to a Tanzanian wanted in connection with the 1998 bombings of American embassies in East Africa, which killed more than 200 people, The A.P. reported.
 Pakistan's deputy attorney general, Naheeda Mehboob Ilahi, said Monday in court that Mr. Khan, believed to be in his late 20s, was released and returned to his home in the southern city of Karachi, according to The A.P.
 The news agency said that Mr. Khan's lawyer, Babar Awan, confirmed that his client had returned to his family but said he had not been able to speak to him. Mr. Awan said Mr. Khan was never charged or brought before any court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (51%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); CITIGROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (71%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2007



374 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: Eligible for Health Insurance, Many Families Have No Idea

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

DATELINE: GREENSBORO, N.C. 

 BODY:
During the four years that her children were uninsured, Cassie O. Hall used the emergency room as their pediatrician. When Tayana had an asthma attack or Darren developed a stubborn rash, they would head to the hospital and settle in for a long wait.
 The children never got physical exams or booster shots. And as the unpaid hospital bills stacked up, the threshold for a visit grew higher. ''They would have to be half-dead before I would take them,'' said Ms. Hall, a day care operator who could not afford private insurance.
 It was only in May that Ms. Hall learned that her family qualified for the State Children's Health Insurance Program, which provides subsidized insurance to children of the working poor. That she had never heard of the joint state and federal program made her typical of countless parents of the estimated eight million uninsured children.
 Despite a decade of marketing efforts by governments and private foundations, nearly 30 percent of children who are eligible for the health insurance program and are not covered by private plans have yet to enroll, according to a new government study. 
 Late last week, the Bush administration published new standards intended to prevent states from expanding eligibility for the program to cover children from middle-class families. But a more fundamental debate over the program has been raging in Washington for months: how to find and enroll the 1.7 million low-income children who are already eligible but have not signed up. 
 That hard-to-reach population is the focus of a showdown over reauthorizing the 10-year-old program, the largest single extension of government-subsidized health insurance since the Great Society health initiatives of 1965. 
 The challenge of enrolling those already eligible demonstrates how difficult it will be for states to meet the new standards. The policy says that states can expand eligibility only if they have first enrolled 95 percent of those who now qualify. Few states have come close to doing that; the national enrollment rate in 2004-2005 was 72 percent, according to the study. 
 The Democratic-controlled House and Senate passed varying bills earlier this month that would vastly increase financing for the program, which expires on Sept. 30. Almost all of the new money would be dedicated to finding and covering children who are already eligible.
 The federal government shares financing for the program with the states, picking up about 70 percent of total costs. The Senate measure would add an average of $7 billion a year to the $5 billion currently being spent. The House version is even richer, adding an average of $10 billion a year for five years.
 President Bush, who proposed a much smaller increase of $1 billion a year, depicts both measures as a major step toward nationalized health coverage and has vowed to veto them. 
 Administration officials warn that the expansion envisioned by Congress would transform the program into a broad entitlement. Many families, they predict, would cancel private insurance in favor of government coverage (one study found that 14 percent of enrollees did).
 Though eligibility varies by state, the 6.6 million children covered by the program typically come from families between 100 percent and 200 percent of the poverty level (between $20,650 and $41,300 for a family of four). Another 29.5 million children, most living below the poverty line, are covered by Medicaid. Studies have found that about two-thirds of all uninsured children are eligible for one of the two programs.
 There is little dispute among experts that the program has been instrumental in reducing the rate of uninsurance among low-income children by almost a third, even as the rate for adults has climbed. About 16 percent of children from families with incomes below 200 percent of the federal poverty level were without insurance in 2005, down from 23 percent in 1997, according to a federal government analysis. 
 But the persistence of so many children without insurance frustrates both policy experts and frontline social service workers. 
 ''We've beat the bushes every which way but loose to find these kids,'' said Janice G. Cardin, the supervisor here in Guilford County for North Carolina Health Choice, as the state's program is called. ''But we know there are still a lot of them out there.''
 In this county, as across North Carolina, outreach workers are once again distributing fliers as school starts. They have used radio advertisements and refrigerator magnets, and have partnered with minority groups like Lumbee Indians and Hmong refugees.
 They have staffed tables at health fairs and plants that are shedding workers. They have eliminated waiting periods, simplified application and income verification procedures, and provided translators to immigrants.
 And yet, the rate of children without insurance in the state recently reversed course and began rising, to 12.5 percent in 2005 from 10.6 percent in 2004, according to the North Carolina Institute of Medicine. Though the Health Choice program now covers about 113,000 North Carolina children, the rate of uninsurance today is the same as in 1999. 
 Researchers at the Urban Institute, an independent group that studies economic and social issues, recently calculated that 5.4 million children nationwide were uncovered at some point each year despite being eligible for government insurance. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office endorses the calculation.
 But the Bush administration has embraced a finding by a different set of Urban Institute researchers that only 1.1 million children fall into that category, a figure based on those without insurance for an entire year.
 ''My perspective is that all states have been extremely successful, which is why we have so few left who are eligible but have not been found,'' said Dennis G. Smith, director of the Center for Medicaid and State Operations.
 As it is, administration officials say, the creation of the program, along with increased use of Medicaid and a decline in employer-based coverage, has resulted in a significant shift to government insurance. Forty-five percent of all children were covered by the insurance program or Medicaid in 2005, up from 28 percent in 1998, according to the Health and Human Services Department. 
 They are families like the Neelys of nearby High Point, N.C., a city still recovering from losses in its textile and furniture industries. After 15 years as an account manager for American Express, Cynthia L. Neely found herself laid off last December, and her husband could not afford his employer's insurance.
 Ms. Neely said she was relieved and surprised to learn this month that her 8-year-old son had qualified for Health Choice.
 ''I've worked since I was 15 and I never thought I would need this,'' she said. ''I always thought if you had any income at all in your household that you wouldn't qualify.'' 
 That misconception is among the obstacles to signing up children of working parents. For Hispanic parents, there may be barriers of language and immigration status. In other instances, parents may struggle with the stigmatizing perception that they might be taking welfare. 
 The Bush administration complains that many states have distorted the original intent of the program by raising eligibility limits to as high as 350 percent of poverty (New Jersey, with New York seeking federal approval to go to 400 percent).
 Enrollment in the program grew rapidly in its early years, but slowed in 2003 and dipped briefly in 2004 before recovering the next year. Various studies have blamed state budget cuts for the slowdown, which prompted some states to restrict eligibility and make enrollment cumbersome. In North Carolina, budget-cutters temporarily froze Health Choice enrollment in 2001. In Texas, where one of every five children is uninsured, officials began requiring parents to requalify for the program every six months rather than annually. 
 But as fiscal pressures eased in the last two years, states have revived efforts to increase enrollment through measures like allowing applicants to mail in forms and requiring less documentation of income. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cynthia Neely was surprised to learn that her son, Anthony, was eligible for coverage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 Cassie O. Hall's children, Darren and Tayana, qualify for a plan that provides subsidized insurance to families of the working poor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEREMY M. LANGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) CHART: ''Insurance Coverage'' Among those eligible for the State Children's Health Insurance Program and Medicaid, the percentage with public health insurance decreased from 1996 to 2000 but increased after 2001. (Source: Julie L. Hudson and Thomas M. Seldenfrom Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); FAMILY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); VETO (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ASTHMA (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



375 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: In Beijing, Orwell Goes to the Olympics

BYLINE: By ROSS TERRILL. 
Ross Terrill, an associate in research at Harvard's Fairbank Center, is the author of ''The New Chinese Empire: And What it Means for the United States.''

 BODY:
Beijing
 IN China, language has long been a test of political orthodoxy. In Mao Zedong's era, to confuse evil ''bourgeois'' with virtuous ''proletarian'' was to face a prison cell. Write the Chinese character for a leader's name at a wrong angle and you were a class enemy. Now, as Beijing begins the final year of its preparations for the 2008 Olympic Games, a mistake with an English word is taboo.
 Some lapses are harmless. ''Don't Bother'' as a privacy request on a hotel door, for example, or ''Chop the Strange Fish'' on a restaurant menu. Others could lead to minor trouble. ''Please take advantage of the chambermaids,'' says a resort brochure.
 The penalty for ''Chinglish'' is usually humiliation, not incarceration. Still, citizens are asked to snitch, Mao-era style, on people who shame China with their shaky English. An outfit called the Beijing Speaks Foreign Languages Program issues prefabricated foreign phrases to workers who cannot converse in any foreign tongue. The Olympics have become one more tool in the authoritarian state's box of tricks. 
 Yes, curbing Chinglish -- along with current efforts to eliminate spitting, littering and pushing to enter a bus or train -- shows the better side of authoritarianism. Clean streets are agreeable, and Beijing's may now be better than New York's. The city's Spiritual Civilization Office has begun a monthly ''Learn to Queue Day,'' surely welcome to all who have been victims of the scramble to board a Chinese bus. It reminds one that China could have a government far worse than it has now.
 Yet behind the attack on Chinglish lies an Orwellian impulse to remake the truth. Banished from Beijing for the Olympics will be not only fractured English, but disabled people, Falun Gong practitioners, dark-skinned villagers newly arrived in the city, AIDS activists and other ''troublemakers'' who smudge the canvas of socialist harmony. 
 This summer, around the time of the 18th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square protests, the government honed house arrest as a device to smoothly eliminate dissidents. Hu Jia and Zeng Jinyan, a young couple who often speak up for rights granted in China's Constitution, and who were already veterans of hundreds of days of house arrest, were again locked up just minutes before they were to fly to Europe to show their documentary film ''Prisoner of Freedom City,'' which depicts the gap between fact and fiction in the political life of Beijing.
 Fictions will abound for the month of August 2008. On all fronts the party-state will pull the rabbit of harmony from the hat of cacophony -- ''What do you mean by dissidents?'' Scientists have been told to produce a quota of ''blue days'' with a clear sky, perpetuating a Chinese Communist tradition of defying natural as well as human barriers to its self-appointed destiny. Mao vowed to plant rice in the dry north of China as well as the lush south, to prove the power of socialism. ''We shall make the sun and moon change places,'' he cried. None of this occurred.
 Likewise, in 2001, arguing before the world to get the Olympic Games, the vice president of Beijing's bid committee said, ''By allowing Beijing to host the Games, you will help the development of human rights.'' Yet the opposite danger looms: Games preparation has spurred repression. 
 Every day, government censors send news organizations a list of forbidden topics and guidelines for covering acceptable ones. The price for ignoring the list: dismissal of an editor or closure of the publication. Last spring, government supervisors even instructed the TV producers of ''Happy Boys Voice,'' a Chinese version of ''American Idol,'' to eliminate ''weirdness, vulgarity and low taste.'' No wonder Dai Qing, a journalist who was imprisoned after Tiananmen in 1989, says the only thing she believes in China's press is the weather report.
 Truth and power are both headquartered in the Communist party-state. ''Truth'' (socialism sparkles, people adore the party) is not only enforced by the party-state but created by it. Stamp out Chinglish; ban ''unhealthy thinking''; just keep the picture pretty -- or else. 
 Some Americans overlook Beijing's manipulations because our culture and politics go their separate ways. The upheavals of the 1960s pulled American culture to the left, yet Richard Nixon took the White House in 1968. Today, university faculties are on the left in many states where Republicans dominate politics. Americans display an invigorating inconsistency that is beyond the imagination of the Chinese, both Communists and dissidents. 
 Alas, few Americans visiting Beijing next August will realize that the drinking water from the faucets of their five-star hotels is unavailable to 99 percent of the city's residents. In fact, this city's water is not safe to drink; the water for the athletes and tourists will be piped in from neighboring Hebei Province. 
 Next year's Olympics are far more important for China than the Los Angeles Games of 1984 were for the United States or Sydney's 2000 Games were for Australia. A regime may be at stake. With Marxism largely evaporated and Leninism fraying at the edges, the Chinese Communist Party's fate hinges on 10 percent annual economic growth and visions of national glory. 
 For years, the party hopes, it will be able to flaunt photographs of Tibetan farmers cheering at a Chinese gold medal in table tennis, videos of Muslims in Xinjiang Province fainting with joy as the women's high jump goes to China by half an inch over Japan, and documentaries in which Beijing taxi drivers speak in perfect English to tourists from New York.
 The Games will likely be well run and successful, and that should not disappoint Westerners. Politicizing the Olympics in any fashion is shortsighted. Boycotting Beijing's 2008 show over Darfur would not usher in a humane Chinese foreign policy toward Africa. Disrupting it because of China's Orwellian fictions would not free the political prisoners. 
 The Chinese state, for better and for worse, knows exactly what it's doing, in Africa and at home. Still, a brilliant Olympic Games will be no more of a clue to the future of Chinese Communist rule than the spectacular 1936 Berlin Games were a sign of Nazism's longevity. Correct language, like a gold medal, is desirable in itself. But neither guarantees glory for a state that pursues them for political ends (ask the Soviet Union). Sport should just be sport. The democracies should insist on that and leave political manipulation to the dictatorships.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAULA SCHER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); AIDS POLICY (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); HOUSE ARREST (77%); PRISONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (75%); RESTAURANTS (70%); CULTS & SECTS (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); AIDS & HIV (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (96%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



376 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ONLINE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 622 words

 BODY:
THE FED'S DILEMMA The Fed finds itself between a rock and hard place when it comes to dealing with the current credit crunch. 
 In 2004, former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan encouraged borrowers to take out more adjustable-rate mortgages. Last year, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke predicted that housing would ''most likely experience a gradual cooling rather than a sharp slowdown.'' It has become clear that the chairmen were wrong. Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [C1.]
 Wall Street ended the day mixed as investors await the Federal Reserve's next move to steady the markets. [C9.] 
 A SHOWDOWN OVER INSURANCE Democrats in Congress want to reauthorize and add funding to get more of those qualified to enlist in an underused insurance program intended to help 1.7 million children of the working poor. The Bush administration, however, proposes a much smaller increase and new rules for the program. [A1.]
 A NEW LEADER FOR DELTA Delta has named Richard H. Anderson, the former head of Northwest Airlines, as its next chief executive, raising speculation about new ties in the future for the two airlines, which have a global alliance and share marketing operations. Mr. Anderson, 52, will succeed Gerald Grinstein, 75, on Sept. 1. [C1.]
 PROBLEMS FOR MACKLOWE? There is much speculation in the commercial real estate market that Harry Macklowe, the New York developer, is in trouble -- so much so that he could lose control of his newly acquired portfolio. [C1.]
 CASHING IN ON YOUTUBE Google thinks it has discovered a formula using small video ads to cash in on YouTube's potential as a magnet for online video advertising and keep its audience loyal at the same time. [C1.]
 Google, the Internet search tool that brought us Google Earth, is beginning a new service today for stargazers, called Sky. [C7.]
 FEDEX ON THE FAIRWAY The FedEx Cup golf playoffs that start at the Westchester Country Club tomorrow are part of a long and expensive campaign by FedEx to lure fans by purchasing naming rights, a chunk of television advertising time and tickets and hospitality opportunities at the events. [C7.]
 SEARCH ENGINE QUESTIONS Three years ago, former President Bill Clinton helped introduce a new Internet search engine, Accoona. Now an underwriter says it has pulled out of an initial public offering after performing due diligence. [C1.] 
 GIVE US THIS DAY... In the last few years, protecting the environment has emerged as a religious issue. Now, something similar is taking place in the way people of faith view their daily bread. [D1.]
 NEW CHIEF AT MEDTRONIC When Arthur D. Collins Jr. steps down as chief executive of Medtronic at the company's annual meeting tomorrow, some wonder if his successor, William A. Hawkins, will usher in a new attitude or even a new outlook for a company that seems to have it all going for it but can't make investors happy. [C4.] 
 HARVARD ENDOWMENT GAINS The Harvard Management Company that oversees the endowment of Harvard University says the fund gained 22.4 percent in the year that ended June 30. [C3.]
 GOOD NEWS FOR 2 RETAILERS Target's profits met analysts' expectations and Saks lost less money than anticipated, the two retailers have reported. [C2.] 
 CHINA TO RAISE INTEREST RATES China says it will raise interest rates for a fourth time this year to slow its fast-growing economy and corral soaring consumer prices. [C5.]
 A STEP CLOSER FOR TRIBUNE Shareholders overwhelmingly approved an $8.2 billion buyout of the Tribune Company led by the real estate billionaire Samuel Zell. The transaction still has some big obstacles to overcome, like the decrease in the Tribune's stock price that has raised doubts about the viability of the package Mr. Zell has put together. [C3.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); AIRLINES (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); INTERNET VIDEO (69%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); CHILDREN (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); GOLF (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (62%); RELIGION (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (69%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (56%); WESTCHESTER COUNTRY CLUB INC (53%); B2BCOMPASS LTD (52%); MEDTRONIC INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (69%); MDT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (69%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (53%); SIC7997 MEMBERSHIP SPORTS & RECREATION CLUBS (53%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (52%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%)

PERSON: WILLIAM A HAWKINS III (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); ARTHUR D COLLINS JR (70%); RICHARD H ANDERSON (66%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); BILL CLINTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



377 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Ford Stays the Course, Wherever It May Lead

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Aug. 21 

 BODY:
What has changed in the year since Alan R. Mulally left Boeing to be chief executive at Ford Motor?
 In a sense, everything and nothing.
 Since his appointment last September made him the first outsider in recent memory named to run a Detroit auto company, Mr. Mulally has brought discipline to a company known for rivalries and infighting. 
 An admirer of the development team that created the Taurus sedan, he revived the nameplate, most recently relegated to a rental car. He mortgaged virtually all of Ford's assets to amass the billions of dollars the company needs for its restructuring, and he has put up for sale Ford's British luxury nameplates: Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin.
 Despite that, Mr. Mulally, who turned 62 this month, has not dispelled concerns about the future of Ford, which Toyota passed this year for second place in the American market. 
 ''Ford's turnaround is still in its infancy,'' said Shelly Lombard, a senior analyst at Gimme Credit, which follows corporate bond markets.
 Indeed, around Detroit and on Wall Street, one question is often raised about Mr. Mulally: When is he going to turn up the heat?
 It is a legitimate question in a city known for corporate drama, especially at Ford, which spawned -- and spurned -- dynamic executives like Lee A. Iacocca and Jacques A. Nasser. Each ran the company like his own personal kingdom, and each was ousted.
 ''There's little on the surface that says they've turned 180 degrees,'' said Ed Hellwig, the editor of Inside Line, an online magazine published by the consumer advice company Edmunds.
 To some experts, that is worrisome because this year, with gasoline at $3 a gallon in parts of the country and a housing slump putting pressure on vehicle sales, auto companies are predicting the weakest industry sales since 1998. And Ford, which earned a surprise profit of $750 million during the second quarter, expects the rest of this year to be difficult.
 Yet Mr. Mulally said in an interview Tuesday that he would stick with the restructuring program that was in place when he arrived nearly a year ago. ''I believe we have a really good plan,'' he said, adding that his goal is to return Ford's North American operations to profitability by 2009.
 He is also sticking with the managers already here. Unlike some chief executives, who arrive with trusted lieutenants, Mr. Mulally has recruited just one Boeing official as a consultant. 
 Instead, he reorganized duties and promoted two Ford executives: Derrick M. Kuzak, who is in charge of global product development, and Susan M. Cischke, the senior vice president for sustainability, environment and safety engineering, who became the industry's first executive to have the word ''sustainability'' in her job title.
 Mr. Mulally's biggest change, executives at the company say, has been to push Ford's leaders to look at competition across the industry, not just across town at General Motors or Chrysler. 
 His model is Toyota, known much less for executive personalities than for its conservative lineup of vehicles focused on high quality and its regimented approach to manufacturing.
 Mr. Mulally raised eyebrows last December when he flew to Japan to call on Toyota's chairman, Fujio Cho. The trip telegraphed Mr. Mulally's regard for the Japanese carmaker, whose production system he emulated at Boeing when he developed the 777 jet.
 ''I look at Toyota, and I have never seen such consistency of purpose,'' Mr. Mulally said. Referring to an industry adage, ''sell the sizzle and not the steak,'' he went on, ''you don't hear anything about the sizzle.''
 But Ford, analysts say, could badly use some. The automaker, which held 16 percent of the American market upon Mr. Mulally's arrival last year, had just 13.7 percent in July, according to statistics from Autodata, a firm that tracks industry statistics. 
 Although the Edge crossover vehicle started well last year, Ford is still plagued by the slump in sales of profitable big vehicles like the Explorer sport utility and the F-series pickup. Mr. Mulally says sales are now divided equally between cars and light trucks. 
 Analysts say it will be 2011 before Ford completes a top-to-bottom makeover of its lineup, drawing from the vehicles it builds around the world, like the C-Max crossover in Europe, based on the European Focus. Ford will introduce yet another crossover, the Flex, next year. A crossover is a sport utility vehicle built on a car chassis.
 ''There is very clearly now a priority around leveraging the products we have globally,'' Mr. Kuzak said this week. 
 Its global cars will help Ford fill out an American lineup that lacks a small car to compete with gas-sipping models like the Toyota Yaris, the Honda Fit and the Chevrolet Aveo, although Mr. Mulally says one is coming.
 Mr. Mulally says he is not concerned about the sales decline, much of it a result of cutting back on sales to rental companies. Ford signaled the decline last year, when it announced it was cutting more than 30,000 jobs by 2012 and closing more than a dozen factories. 
 ''This is not only what we expected, this is the plan,'' Mr. Mulally said.
 Indeed, Mr. Mulally, in his carefully worded answers, seems to exude only optimism about his company. 
 And little wonder: he earned $28 million in his first four months on the job last year, including a $7.5 million signing bonus and $11 million paid by Ford to offset benefits he lost when he left Boeing. Mr. Mulally's base salary is $2 million a year, and he has received stock grants and options. His predecessor, William Clay Ford Jr., did not accept a salary last year, although he received $10.5 million in stock awards. 
 What has Mr. Mulally's pay bought Ford? An executive who reads and promptly answers (or forwards) every e-mail message, sends notes of praise and has spent a year immersing himself in the automobile industry.
 Ms. Cischke said she had spent hours tutoring Mr. Mulally about the nuts and bolts of corporate average fuel economy, an issue in the spotlight this summer in Washington. Mr. Kuzak, for his part, said Mr. Mulally quickly grasped the need to update the company's lineup.
 ''Alan is a very quick learner,'' Mr. Kuzak said. ''You wouldn't be in the position Alan is in if you weren't.'' 
 Thursday has become the day top executives meet with Mr. Mulally each week to review the company's business plan. Such meetings used to happen irregularly, and the business plan was an amorphous document amended to reflect shifts in the marketplace -- a forecast as much as a plan, Mr. Kuzak said. Executives spent as much time explaining why they were off target as they did outlining goals.
 Now, the business plan is set, and instead of making executives defend shortfalls, Mr. Mulally asks other managers to offer ideas and help. ''The expectation is that outside the meeting, you will work on corrective measures to get back on plan,'' Mr. Kuzak said.
 Ms. Cischke said Mr. Mulally began at a disadvantage, given his outsider status. 
 But Ford's new approach, she said, ''ends up being a real testimony to his leadership style and skill to take people who are real knowledgeable about the business and get us to work the way we would like to work.''
 Like the executives he emulates at Toyota, Mr. Mulally sees his challenge as a long-term one. Once he pushes the company up the slope to North American profitability, his goal is to make sure that it will ''be profitable forever,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jaguar and Land Rover are two of the three luxury brands Ford's chief, Alan R. Mulally, has put up for sale as part of restructuring. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Recent Upturn Since Alan R. Mulally became chief executive of Ford Motor last September, the company has reported an increase in revenue and an unexpected profit for this year's second quarter. But its North American operations have not become profitable. (Sources: company reports
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SEDANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (72%); BONDS (72%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); SPORTS CARS (69%); BOND MARKETS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); ENGINEERING (60%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



378 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2337 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan and Bernanke: Evolving Views

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Here are excerpts from some of the comments that Alan Greenspan and Ben S. Bernanke have made about the housing market over the last six years.
 It's also worth reading an article by Nell Henderson -- ''Bernanke: There's No Housing Bubble to Go Bust'' -- that appeared in The Washington Post in October 2005.
 The excerpts come from transcripts released by CQ Congressional Testimony and Federal News Service.
 Joint Economic Committee Meeting, April 17, 2002: 
 Mr. GREENSPAN: The ongoing strength in the housing market has raised concerns about the possible emergence of a bubble in home prices. However, the analogy often made to the building and bursting of a stock price bubble is imperfect. First, unlike in the stock market, sales in the real estate market incur substantial transactions costs and, when most homes are sold, the seller must physically move out. Doing so often entails significant financial and emotional costs and is an obvious impediment to stimulating a bubble through speculative trading in homes. Thus, while stock market turnover is more than 100 percent annually, the turnover of home ownership is less than 10 percent annually--scarcely tinder for speculative conflagration. Second, arbitrage opportunities are much more limited in housing markets than in securities markets. A home in Portland, Oregon, is not a close substitute for a home in Portland, Maine, and the ''national'' housing market is better understood as a collection of small, local housing markets. Even if a bubble were to develop in a local market, it would not necessarily have implications for the nation as a whole.
 These factors certainly do not mean that bubbles cannot develop in house markets and that home prices cannot decline: Indeed, home prices fell significantly in several parts of the country in the early 1990s. But because the turnover of homes is so much smaller than that of stocks and because the underlying demand for living space tends to be revised very gradually, the speed and magnitude of price rises and declines often observed in markets for securities are more difficult to create in markets for homes.
 Senate hearing, June 15, 2004:
 SEN. EVAN BAYH (D-Ind.): Before my time expires, Mr. Chairman, let me just mention one other risk that's popularly thrown out there, and we've asked you about it before and you've responded. But things have changed some since your last response. And that's with regard to housing and the fact that housing prices have outstripped the growth in incomes over the last several years. Now, the effect of that was ameliorated by the lower interest rates, which enabled people to afford these higher prices. Interest rates may now be in the process of adjusting some. And your response previously had been that immigration and that land scarcity would help to sustain these higher prices. Are you concerned about housing prices at this point, and perhaps the effect that that will have on consumer spending if prices prove not to be justified at current levels?
 Mr. GREENSPAN: Well, it is certainly the case, as you point out, Senator, that prices have been moving up faster than they have been, but remember that because productivity growth in residential construction has historically been moving more slowly than the average over the longer run, largely because there's a good deal of custom- house building -- in other words, we like our own idiosyncratic house -- means you can't have mass production that you can have in the general area of manufacturing mainly. so that there is a gradual long-term updrift in the price of homes relative to the price of everything else. But, to be sure, there's been a faster pace today, but not enough in our judgment to raise major concerns. It could become a problem, if it were to accelerate further. We see little evidence that that's likely to happen, largely because we perceive that the very strong expansion in new and existing home sales is now flattening out, and the really quite unexpected boom in home sales over the recent years is unlikely to be continued. Our forecast is generally flat -- not in prices but in aggregate volumes. Where house prices go, I'm not sure, but I would be quite surprised if they showed continued acceleration on the up side.
 Remarks at America's Community Bankers Annual Convention, Oct. 19, 2004:
 Mr. GREENSPAN: These concerns cannot be readily dismissed. Debt leverage of all types is often troublesome when one judges the stability of the economy. Should home prices fall, we would have reason to be concerned about mortgage debt; but measures of household financial stress do not, at least to date, appear overly worrisome.
 About three-fourths of all outstanding first-lien mortgages were originated with a loan-to-value ratio of 80 percent or less, and in aggregate, the current loan-to-value ratio is estimated to be around 45 percent. Even though some down payments are borrowed, it would take a large, and historically most unusual, fall in home prices to wipe out a significant part of home equity. Many of those who purchased their residence more than a year ago have equity buffers in their homes adequate to withstand any price decline other than a very deep one.
 Housing price bubbles presuppose an ability of market participants to trade properties as they speculate about the future. But upon sale of a house, homeowners must move and live elsewhere. This necessity, as well as large transaction costs, are significant impediments to speculative trading and an important restraint on the development of price bubbles.
 Council on Foreign Relations event, March 10, 2005:
 Mr. GREENSPAN: In a related concern, a number of analysts have conjectured that the extended period of low interest rates is spawning a bubble in housing prices in the United States that will, at some point, implode. Their concern is that, if this were to occur, highly leveraged homeowners would be forced to sharply curtail their spending. To be sure, indexes of house prices based on repeat sales of existing homes have significantly outstripped increases in rents, suggesting at least the possibility of price misalignment in some housing markets.
 But a destabilizing contraction in nationwide house prices does not seem the most probable outcome. To be sure, the recent marked increase in the investor share of home purchases suggests rising speculation in homes. (Owner occupants are rarely home speculators because to sell, they must move.) However, nominal house prices in the aggregate have rarely fallen and certainly not by very much. And even should more-than-average price weakness occur, the increase in home equity as a consequence of the recent sharp rise in prices should buffer the vast majority of homeowners.
 House prices, however, like those of many other assets, are difficult to predict, and movements in those prices can be of macroeconomic significance.
 Economic Club of New York event, May 20, 2005:
 Mr. GREENSPAN: Without calling the overall national issue a bubble, it's pretty clear that it's an unsustainable underlying pattern.
 Mr. Bernanke's Senate confirmation hearing, Nov. 15, 2005:
 SEN. PAUL SARBANES (D-Md.): You're on record as opposing the use of monetary policy to control asset bubbles, as I understand it, whether in the stock market or in the housing market.
 Instead, you stated, ''A far better approach is to use micro-level policies to reduce the incidence of bubbles to protect the financial system against their effects.''
 Now, The Wall Street Journal ran an article recently entitled, ''Concerns Mount About Mortgage Risks,'' which reported -- and I quote the Journal -- ''In the latest sign of how frothy the housing market has become, new data show the degree to which people are stretching to buy homes in a hot housing market. The data from the Mortgage Bankers Association show that adjustable rate and interest-only mortgages accounted for nearly two-thirds of mortgage originations in the second half of last year.
 ''Allen Fishbein, the director of Housing and Credit Policy to Consumer Federation of America, called it a game of musical chairs. 'Somebody is going to have the chair pulled out from under them when they find prices have leveled out, and then try to sell, only to find they can't sell for what they paid for it.' ''
 Are you concerned about the potential for a bubble in the housing market? And specifically, does the drastic increase in the use of risky financing schemes, including interest-only and even negative amortization mortgages, concern you?
 Mr. BERNANKE: Senator, as I understand it, the Federal Reserve is reviewing these practices with the idea of issuing guidance about so-called nontraditional mortgages. I think it is important to make sure that mortgages of the nontraditional type -- whether they're interest-only, option ARMs or other similar types of mortgages -- that first, that they are consistent with safety and soundness on the part of the lenders; and secondly, that consumers who are using these mortgages fully understand the implications of holding these mortgages should, for example, housing prices decline or interest rates rise. I think it's very important to look at these instruments, and I believe that doing so would have on the margin some beneficial effects in reducing speculative activity in some local markets. However, over all, I think the main reason to look at these instruments is to make sure that banks are protected and that the consumers are protected against the potential risks of these instruments.
 House of Representatives hearing, Feb. 15, 2006:
 Mr. BERNANKE: The housing market has been very strong for the past few years. Housing prices have been up quite a but. Residential investment has been very strong.
 It seems to be the case -- there are some straws in the wind that housing markets are cooling a bit. Our expectation is that the decline in activity or the slowing in activity will be moderate; that house prices will probably continue to rise but not at the pace that they had been rising.
 So we expect the housing market to cool but not to change very sharply.
 If the housing market does cool, more or less as expected, that would still be consistent with a strong economy. In 2006 and 2007, in particular, capital investment and other forms of demand would take up the slack left by residential investment.
 Senate hearing, Feb. 16, 2006:
 Mr. BERNANKE: Not all of the risks to the economy concern inflation. For example, a number of indicators point to a slowing in the housing market. Some cooling of the housing market is to be expected and would not be inconsistent with continued solid growth of overall economic activity. However, given the substantial gains in house prices and the high levels of home construction activity over the past several years, prices and construction could decelerate more rapidly than currently seems likely. Slower growth in home equity, in turn, might lead households to boost their saving and trim their spending relative to current income by more than is now anticipated. The possibility of significant further increases in energy prices represents an additional risk to the economy; besides affecting inflation, such increases might also hurt consumer confidence and thereby reduce spending on non-energy goods and services.
 House of Representatives hearing, April 27, 2006:
 Mr. BERNANKE: At this point, the available data on the housing market, together with ongoing support for housing demand from factors such as strong job creation and still-low mortgage rates, suggests that this sector will most likely experience a gradual cooling rather than a sharp slowdown.
 However, significant uncertainty attends the outlook for housing, and the risk exists that a slowdown more pronounced than we currently expect could prove a drag on growth this year and next. The Federal Reserve will continue to monitor housing markets closely.
 House of Representatives hearing, July 20, 2006:
 REPRESENTATIVE GARY G. MILLER (R-Calif.): You've also indicated in testimony that there's been a gradual cooling in the housing market. And I think that might be an understatement, but that's the statement
 Mr. BERNANKE: The main factor is that housing prices have rising at double-digit rates for about five years. I think that quantitatively is the main reason that people have been getting priced out in some markets. And that obviously, arithmetically, can't go on forever, because affordability begins to bite.
 House of Representatives hearing, July 18, 2007:
 Mr. BERNANKE: To a considerable degree, the slower pace of economic growth in recent quarters reflects the ongoing adjustment in the housing sector. Over the past year, home sales and construction have slowed substantially and house prices have decelerated. Although a leveling-off of home sales in the second half of 2006 suggested some tentative stabilization of housing demand, sales have softened further this year, leading the number of unsold new homes in builders' inventories to rise further relative to the pace of new home sales. Accordingly, construction of new homes has sunk further, with starts of new single-family houses thus far this year running 10 percent below the pace in the second half of last year. 
 The pace of home sales seems likely to remain sluggish for a time, partly as a result of some tightening in lending standards and the recent increase in mortgage interest rates. Sales should ultimately be supported by growth in income and employment as well as by mortgage rates that -- despite the recent increase -- remain fairly low relative to historical norms. However, even if demand stabilizes as we expect, the pace of construction will probably fall somewhat further as builders work down stocks of unsold new homes. Thus, declines in residential construction will likely continue to weigh on economic growth over coming quarters, although the magnitude of the drag on growth should diminish over time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (95%); REAL ESTATE (93%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); TESTIMONY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); BEN BERNANKE (90%); EVAN BAYH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (54%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (54%) OREGON, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



379 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Fed Seeks a Delicate Balance As Investors Clamor for Action

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
Wall Street thinks the Federal Reserve is running short of time. 
 After another day of restless anxiety in the world's credit markets, most lenders and investors remained fearful of all but the very safest Treasury securities, and new figures showed that the rate of foreclosures in the housing market in July was almost double that of a year ago. 
 Analysts now say that the central bank's move last Friday to restore confidence by encouraging banks to borrow directly from the Fed at a lower cost has had only limited impact so far and that the Fed will need to take more drastic action by cutting its benchmark interest rate soon if it fails to see more progress.
 ''I would calibrate it in days, not weeks,'' said Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley. ''If the money markets are still in disarray a few days from now, I would think the Fed is going to have to take additional steps.'' 
 But the central bank's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and most other Fed policy makers are extremely reluctant to have the Fed jump to the rescue with an interest rate cut simply to relieve the woes of investors on Wall Street or to bail out hedge funds and others that many blame for the current problems caused by excessive investment in risky mortgages. Instead, the Fed is much more closely watching for clues to whether the housing market itself and consumer spending are weakening before deciding that it needs to cut interest rates. 
 That means an imminent reduction in the Fed's key policy tool, the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks, is still far from a sure bet. 
 The big issue facing the Fed -- whether or not to cut the federal funds rate by a quarter point or even half a point from its current level of 5.25 percent and when to do so if it decides a cut is warranted -- poses major risks for Mr. Bernanke. Since taking over the Fed in February 2006, Mr. Bernanke's hallmark has been a cool patience and willingness to stick with his economic game plan even when it clashed with the expectations on Wall Street.
 But Mr. Bernanke does not have the luxury of time. Lessons from the last big credit crunch, which came after Russia's financial meltdown in August 1998, show that timid action has little effect, while a quick and decisive follow-up move can make a major difference.
 On the other hand, any sign that the central bank has itself become overly nervous about the situation by moving precipitously could compound the anxiety that has paralyzed investors about everything from mortgages to commercial bonds.
 The Federal Reserve rarely changes its benchmark interest rate between its official policy meetings, and only when it faces an unexpected shock. The last time it did so was a week after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. The Fed's next meeting is not scheduled to occur until Sept. 18.
 But the Fed is under time pressure in part because it pointedly raised expectations of a broader rate cut last Friday when it declared that it was ''prepared to act as needed'' to help the economy weather disruptions in the markets. 
 The Fed's first move -- to entice banks into borrowing through its so-called ''discount window'' -- has done almost nothing to jumpstart lending, many analysts now say.
 ''It's not clear that the discount window was a viable option,'' said Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor who is now vice chairman at Macroeconomic Advisers. ''It just doesn't seem like it is going to be a very effective tool in adding liquidity.'' 
 Fed officials and top Treasury officials continued on Tuesday to talk by telephone with major banks, encouraging them to borrow from the discount window and repeating that there was no stigma associated with such loans. Traditionally, banks have only resorted to the Fed's discount window when they had no other place to borrow money. 
 In a separate move, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York cut in half the fee it charges banks to borrow Treasury securities. Fed officials described the move as ''purely technical,'' though it dovetailed with investors' rush to find safety in Treasury bills.
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the banking committee, met with Mr. Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. on Tuesday morning. He said the Fed chairman told him that he would use ''all available tools'' to head off a surge in mortgage foreclosures.
 If Wall Street regains even a small part of its past willingness to finance mortgages and commercial loans, Fed policy makers could gain enough breathing room to postpone a decision until their next scheduled policy meeting.
 Fed officials would probably prefer to wait until their Sept. 18 meeting, by which time they will have more information on whether the fear in financial markets has in fact translated to problems in the real economy.
 Indeed, there were signs Tuesday of an internal debate about the need to cut rates at all.
 Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, said in a speech to risk managers in North Carolina on Tuesday that turmoil in financial markets was not a reason in itself to reduce rates.
 ''Interest rate policy needs to be guided by the outlook for real spending and inflation,'' Mr. Lacker said, adding that many of the market's problems are simply a reaction to previous ''misjudgments'' about the exotic mortgages.
 There were hints on Tuesday that such fears, stemming in large part from the meltdown in mortgage markets, were ebbing slightly. The stock market was relatively tranquil for the second day on Tuesday and while investors continued to cling to short-term Treasury bills, a sign of risk aversion, rates moved up later in the day, suggesting that some of those anxieties were easing. And prices of credit swaps tied to Countrywide Financial, the giant but struggling mortgage lender, declined slightly. 
 But Fed officials had little cause for cheer. Banc of America Securities downgraded the stocks of two major homebuilders -- Toll Brothers and Hovnanian Enterprises -- because of the growing number of customers canceling contracts for new homes.
 And RealtyTrac, a publisher of databases on foreclosures, said on Tuesday that the number of foreclosure filings jumped 9 percent in July, to 179,599, and was 93 percent higher than in July 2006. 
 More than half of those threatened foreclosures were in California, Florida, Michigan, Ohio and Georgia, RealtyTrac reported. But 43 states experienced an increase in such filings compared with one year ago.
 Though many big pending leverage buyouts have run into problems with financing, Fed officials have long been skeptical about the economic impact of such difficulties.
 The real issue for policy makers is whether companies are investing less in new equipment and construction, or whether consumer spending is being seriously undermined.
 To that end, Mr. Bernanke appears to be paying especially close attention to the health of the housing market. Fed officials have recently acknowledged that the downturn in housing over the last 18 months has been deeper and more protracted than they expected, and the Fed was clearly startled by the recent panic associated with subprime mortgages and other exotic home loans.
 Until two weeks ago, Fed officials had steadfastly contended that they saw little spillover from woes in the housing market to the broader economy. And while they had acknowledged acute problems among people with weak credit who took out subprime loans, officials contended that subprime mortgages were a small part of all home loans.
 But Fed officials now concede that problems in the mortgage market are broader than they once thought, with problems surfacing in so-called ''Alt-A'' mortgages, from interest-only loans to ''no-doc'' loans in which borrowers do not need to document their incomes. Fears about the hidden risks in mortgages have now prompted many investors to back away even from conventional mortgages.
 Fed officials were pleasantly surprised earlier this year that the plunge in home building, which began more than a year ago, has not led to higher unemployment or lower consumer spending. But they repeatedly cautioned that uncertainties about housing still posed the biggest risk to their forecast for a ''soft landing.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Christopher J. Dodd, chairman of the Banking Committee, met yesterday with the Federal Reserve chairman and the Treasury secretary and said the Fed chief planned to use ''all available tools'' to head off a surge in mortgage foreclosures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BONDS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BAILOUTS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



380 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: China Raises Interest Rates, Renewing Effort to Ease Prices

BYLINE: By DAVID LAGUE

DATELINE: BEIJING, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
China announced Tuesday that it would raise interest rates for a fourth time this year in an effort to contain its racing economy and rein in soaring consumer prices.
 The People's Bank of China, the central bank, said on its Web site that the benchmark one-year lending rate would rise 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage points, to 7.02 percent, as of Wednesday, and that the rate for deposits would rise 27 basis points, to 3.6 percent. 
 Analysts said the rate increase was also aimed at cooling the Chinese stock market, which has so far escaped the turmoil that the subprime mortgage problem in the United States has unleashed on global financial markets.
 China's decision, coming after the Federal Reserve cut its discount rate on Friday, demonstrates how the world's fastest-growing major economy sometimes appears to be insulated from global forces.
 ''China is now counteracting the U.S. cycle,'' said Connie Leung, chief economist at ERA Economic Research Analysis, a research and advisory business in Hong Kong. ''China is one of the few markets in the world to be raising rates rather than holding or cutting rates.''
 The ruling Communist Party fears that rising prices fueled by an overheated economy could hurt millions of poor Chinese, particularly in rural areas, where economic hardship or dissatisfaction with the government often leads to protests and unrest.
 But the authorities must avoid too sharp a slowdown because rapid economic growth is needed to provide jobs for millions of surplus rural workers.
 Ms. Leung and other analysts say they expect China to raise rates further before the end of the year, perhaps more than once, as part of a sustained campaign to bring growth under control.
 In addition to raising rates, the central bank has ordered lenders six times this year to increase the amount of funds held in reserve, as a way to tighten the supply of credit.
 Many economists had expected China to raise rates further after official statistics showed that inflation jumped to 5.6 percent in July, the biggest monthly increase since 1997, mainly owing to steep increases in the cost of food, including pork, and other household goods. The official target for inflation for 2007 is 3 percent. 
 But China's top economic planning agency and price monitor, the National Development and Reform Commission, said the country was not in danger of entering a period of ''full scale'' inflation, the official China Daily newspaper reported Tuesday.
 With limited options for investment outside bank deposits, millions of Chinese savers have turned to the stock market in recent years, driving a surge in share prices. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index has risen 80 percent this year, after a 130 percent increase last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); BANKING IN CHINA (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); FOOD PRICES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); WEB SITES (57%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (55%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) EAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



381 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Climb for Target, and Saks Narrows Its Losses

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Target's profits were as good as analysts had expected, and Saks lost less money than expected. These days, that is good news.
 Investors have been nervously watching for results from Target since last week, when a bigger rival, Wal-Mart Stores, posted a higher quarterly profit but cut its 2007 earnings forecast because of weak consumer spending. 
 Target was not totally immune to that weakness.
 ''As we look to the remainder of the year, we are planning our business more conservatively to reflect this climate,'' Target's president, Gregg W. Steinhafel, said in a conference call.
 Mr. Steinhafel said Target would be especially careful to manage inventory on discretionary goods like clothing and seasonal items.
 For the quarter that ended Aug. 4, the Target Corporation, based in Minneapolis, said yesterday that it earned $686 million, or 80 cents a share, up 12.6 percent from $609 million, or 70 cents a share, a year ago. Revenue rose 9.5 percent, to $14.62 billion, from $13.35 billion a year ago.
 Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial were expecting Target to earn 80 cents a share on revenue of $14.67 billion.
 Target said same-store sales, those at stores open at least a year, rose 4.9 percent for the quarter. The company said it expected same-store sales growth in the mid-single digits for the second half of the year.
 Target said its previous estimate of $3.60 a share for full-year earnings ''remains within the range of likely outcomes.'' Analysts were expecting $3.63 a share.
 Saks Inc., the operator of upscale department stores, reported a narrower loss as its same-store sales jumped 13.2 percent and its margins expanded on reduced markdowns. But its shares fell because it said margins would be flat for the rest of the year.
 The company reported a second-quarter loss of $24.6 million, or 17 cents a share, compared with a loss of $51.9 million, or 38 cents a share, during the period last year. Second-quarter sales rose 15 percent, to $694.1 million, from $603.8 million in the prior-year period.
 Saks's loss would have been 14 cents a share if not for one-time charges. On that basis, analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial were expecting a loss of 15 cents a share on sales of $684.6 million.
 The chairman and chief executive, Stephen I. Sadove, said during a conference call with analysts yesterday that he believed that customers were ''responding to our focused merchandise assortment, as well as our customer service and marketing initiatives.''
 He said, however, that the company faced a tougher comparison in the third and fourth quarters. He predicted ''relatively flat'' gross margins for the rest of the year.
 Target shares rose $1.01, or 1.7 percent, to $60.10. Saks shares fell $1.11, or 6 percent, to $16.83.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Miu Miu shoe, $415 a pair, at Saks Fifth Avenue in New York last week. Saks Inc. said lower markdowns had aided results. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (94%); WAL-MART STORES INC (90%); SAKS INC (85%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (94%); WMT (NYSE) (90%); SKS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (94%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (94%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (90%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%)

PERSON: GREGG STEINHAFEL (74%); STEPHEN I SADOVE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (59%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



382 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Of Church And Steak: Farming For the Soul

BYLINE: By JOAN NATHAN

 BODY:
Howard, S.D. 
 NEAR a prairie dotted with cattle and green with soy beans, barley, corn and oats, two bearded Hasidic men dressed in black pray outside a slaughterhouse here that is managed by an evangelical Christian. 
 What brought these men together could easily have kept them apart: religion. 
 The two Hasidim oversee shehitah, the Jewish ritual slaughtering of meat according to the Book of Leviticus. The meat is then shipped to Wise Organic Pastures, a kosher food company in Brooklyn owned by Issac Wiesenfeld and his family. When Mr. Wiesenfeld sought an organic processor that used humane methods five years ago, he found Scott Lively, who was just beginning Dakota Beef, now one of the largest organic meat processors in the country.
 Mr. Lively adheres to a diet he believes Jesus followed. Like Mr. Wiesenfeld, he says the Bible prescribes that he use organic methods to respect the earth, treat his workers decently and treat the cattle that enter his slaughterhouse as humanely as possible. 
 ''We learn everything from the Old Testament,'' Mr. Lively said, ''from keeping kosher to responsible capitalism.''
 Humane, sustainable practices like Mr. Lively's are articles of faith for many Americans concerned with the way food gets from farm to plate. But they are even more deeply held matters of faith for a growing number of farmers and religious groups. In the past few years protecting the environment has emerged as a religious issue. Now, something similar is taking place in the way people of faith view their daily bread.
 Christians, Jews and Muslims who see food through a moral lens are increasingly organized and focused on showing their strength. The Religious Working Group on the Farm Bill, a national coalition of more than a dozen religious organizations, is lobbying Congress for legislation to help small farms. The National Catholic Rural Life Conference is helping congregations and universities in the Midwest buy local produce from family farmers. 
 Environment-minded Jews are asking the leaders of Conservative Judaism to rewrite their kosher certification rules to incorporate ethical concerns about workers, animals and the land. Hazon, the Jewish environmental organization, has set up community-supported agriculture programs, or C.S.A.'s, in which customers purchase shares of a farm's harvest.
 ''This is the first time I have seen such a deep and growing involvement of the faith community,'' said Brother David Andrews, who is on sabbatical from his job as executive director of the National Catholic Rural Life Conference and has followed these kinds of issues for 30 years. 
 If this nascent cause was taken up by large numbers of churches and synagogues, the economic effect alone could be profound. ''The religious movement is a huge force,'' said Arlin S. Wasserman, the founder of Changing Tastes, a consulting firm in St. Paul that advises food companies and philanthropic organizations on trends in food and agriculture. ''Already, religious institutions oversee the production of $250 billion per year in food if you bundle together halal, kosher, and institutional buying. 
 ''Religious leaders have been giving dietary advice for decades and centuries, telling us to eat fish on Friday or to keep kosher in your home. What we are seeing now are contemporary concerns like the fair treatment of farm workers, humane treatment of animals and respect for the environment being integrated into the dietary advice given by the churches.'' 
 Religious officials say agricultural issues seem to be particularly appealing to younger people.
 ''Food and the environment is the civil rights movement for people under the age of 40,'' said the Rev. John Wimberly, pastor of the Western Presbyterian Church in Washington.
 The church recently helped restore a small farmers' market called the Fresh Farm Market at Foggy Bottom, using its facility to house tents, signs and carts. At the end of the day parishioners glean the food left at the market for their soup kitchen. 
 The ideas behind faith-based farming relate to the principles of several popular diet books that take inspiration from the Bible, like ''Holy Cow! Does God Care About What We Eat?'' by Hope Egan (First Fruits of Zion, 2005); ''What Would Jesus Eat?'' by Don Colbert (Thomas Nelson, 2002); and ''The Maker's Diet,'' by Jordan S. Rubin (Siloam Press, 2004). All advocate a return to what they see as the healthy eating practices and humane livestock treatment described in the Bible. 
 Mr. Lively, who follows the Maker's diet, slaughters about 45 steer a day at Dakota Beef. Larger facilities will slaughter 2,000 or more. 
 ''We take time to be sure the animal has been processed humanely,'' he said. ''This is not only important for our humane handling standards, but it is also very much biblical in our minds.''
 The slaughterhouse weds ancient practices with modern insights and technology. Much of the plant was planned with the help of Dr. Temple Grandin, a designer of humane livestock facilities and professor of animal sciences at Colorado State University. She suggested changes like shielding the animals from humans milling about and nestling them in a comfortable head-holder as Tal Ginter, the shohet, or kosher slaughterer, wields the knife that slices their jugular vein, rather than first stunning the animals, as is a common commercial practice. 
 ''It is not a horrible thing,'' said Mr. Ginter, who worked in the slaughterhouse until recently under the supervision of Crown Heights Kosher and the Orthodox Union. ''It looks bloody, but according to the Bible and the Torah, you have to be mindful of the animal and let it die as fast as you can, to cause less pain.'' 
 Many of the ideas in the faith-based agriculture movement were expressed 30 years ago by advocates of eco-kashrut, a Jewish environmental consciousness movement. Jewish groups like Kosher Conscience in New York and blogs like the Jew & the Carrot (jcarrot.org), which is sponsored by Hazon, are still in the forefront. Two years ago the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, which has long been involved in agriculture issues, gave the Alliance for Jewish Renewal a two-year, $200,000 grant to start the Sacred Foods Project, which developed ethical guides to food buying. 
 For some religious people, change starts from the ground up, beginning with the way they treat the land. Dr. Adnan Aldayel, a Saudi Arabian financial consultant living in New Rockford, N.D., runs what he believes is the nation's only organic halal producer, Dakota Halal. ''We try to raise our animals the proper way, the right way,'' he said. ''We are the custodians of the ground.''
 Environmentally sensitive farming has been taken up by at least 50 orders of nuns in the United States and Canada. Their number has increased about fivefold in the past decade, said Sarah McFarland Taylor, who recently published a book about this movement, ''Green Sisters: A Spiritual Ecology'' (Harvard University Press, 2007).
 Among them is Sisters Hill Farm, a seven-acre organic farm in Stanfordville, N.Y., operated by the Sisters of Charity of New York. When they began working the land in 2000, it had not been cultivated since 1940. The sisters sell some of their vegetables at a stand on the farm and some through a C.S.A. based at the College of Mount Saint Vincent in the Bronx. 
 ''We decided to revive this farm so that the sisters could have a place to go to from the city to do something in a sustainable way to care for the earth,'' said Sister Mary Ann Garisto, director of ecological concerns for the Sisters of Charity. 
 For many who farm according to religious principles, the treatment of animals is a great concern. Catherine and Myron Horst of Dickerson, Md., wrote about the problem on their Bible study Web site, biblicalresearchreports.com, in an article called ''Farming Based on the Word of the God.''
 ''The secular corporate business world and the state universities have dismissed God from the farming picture,'' they wrote. The Horsts wanted to alter that picture when they took over a 38-acre farm seven years ago.
 ''We asked the Lord what we were to do with the farm,'' said Mr. Horst, a born-again Christian. 
 So he and his wife put their chickens out to pasture during the day, gather the eggs by hand, and move them back to shelters at night. It is far more work then keeping them cooped up or caged, but for the Horsts the Bible's promise of dominion ''over every living thing'' entails responsibilities as well as rights.
 Faith-based farming can also mean taking responsibility for the hired hands. Roy Brubaker, a Mennonite who grows strawberries, blueberries and vegetables on his 20-acre farm near Mifflintown, Pa., said: ''My faith tells me that workers should be fairly paid. I have never paid the minimum wage. That is not the biblical standard for a living wage.'' 
 Joel Salatin, who is considered a guru of organic agriculture, said he has seen a change in the people who visit his Polyface farm in Virginia.
 ''Ten years ago most of my farm visitors were earth muffin tree-hugger nirvana cosmic worshipers,'' Mr. Salatin said. ''And now 80 percent of them are Christian home schoolers.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FARMING AS FAITH: Scott Lively, left, a Christian, raises cattle in South Dakota for a kosher food company. Above, ceremonial washing of meat at his company, Dakota Beef. Far left, Sister Mary Ann Garisto farms in Stanfordville, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVE EGGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LEFT, PHIL MANSFIELD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F2)
 GOD'S WORK: Sister Mary Ann Garisto farms organically at Sisters Hill Farm in Dutchess County, N.Y. (PHIL MANSFIELD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (91%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MAMMALS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); MEATS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (76%); TRENDS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); ETHICS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FAMILY FARMS (70%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); LOBBYING (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); CHARITIES (60%); PHILANTHROPY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



383 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SAN DIEGO JOURNAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: The Weather's Fine, Hence the Invasion From Arizona

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO 

 BODY:
Phoenix and Tucson have been evacuated because of summer heat and monsoonal moisture. The emergency shelter is here, or so it seems, for the displaced Arizonans. 
 Here they come, seemingly all of southern Arizona -- Zonies in the local vernacular -- with their children, their friends, their cars, their strange folkways, a mass exodus from one kind of sand to another, as if propelled by desert winds into ocean breezes.
 Make that hot desert winds. ''Because it's like a thousand degrees in Phoenix,'' said Haley Holland, 11, walking in from a morning on the beach as her father and friends sipped drinks on the deck of their rental cottage atop the Crystal Pier. 
 The joke in Arizona is that if you are trying to find your friend in July or August, look on the beach here. In some hotels, three-quarters or more of the summer guests are Arizonans, who fly one hour or drive five or six to exchange triple-digit temperatures for San Diego's breeze-kissed 70s and 80s.
 ''You can sit on this sand and not burn your butt off,'' said Jim Phelps of Phoenix, who regularly settles into an oceanfront hotel.
 Calling them Zonies is done with only the utmost affection, of course: the bad driving, crowded beaches and restaurants, jammed parking lots, clueless ocean swimming, touristy attire and endless requests for directions.
 ''Zonies go home'' bumper stickers are a thing of years past, or so says the San Diego Convention and Visitors Bureau, which smiles through the invasion.
 Arizonans account for 11 percent of overnight visitors, more than any other state but California. They spend $970 million annually, a hefty chunk of the $6.9 billion in annual tourist spending. 
 Or as Richard Holland, Haley's father, put it: ''They loan us their city for a couple of months, we pay them to enjoy it, we leave. It's a nice deal.''
 All the economic support, Mr. Holland suggested, justifies any inconvenience he and his lot may impose. ''When I cut across seven lanes of traffic to make that exit in 100 yards or less, I figure my Arizona plates give me diplomatic immunity,'' he said.
 The ribbing follows the longstanding American tradition practiced by residents of many tourist zones, to poke fun at visitors and blame them for ills (think of the ''bennies,'' a term of disputed origin, that Jersey Shore residents gripe about all summer).
 The San Diego-Arizona connection, though, pits two fast-growing Sun Belt regions jockeying for stature. It seemed easier to make fun of Phoenix before it surpassed San Diego in population, in 1997, according to the Census Bureau. Phoenix is now the nation's fifth-largest city, with 1.5 million residents, and San Diego the eighth, with 1.26 million, the latest census estimates say.
 David Moye, a San Diego writer who has blogged about the annoyances posed by Zonies (as a teenager, the Zonie girls didn't always go for ''townies'' like him, he said), attributed picking on Arizonans as an effort by San Diegans to feel superior.
 ''There is a lot of angst, aggression, seething personalities among natives, partly because we are always in the shadow of L.A.,'' Mr. Moye said.
 ''When you have good weather all the time,'' he added, ''you have to find something to be cranky about, if you can't blame the weather.''
 Jason Smith, a waiter in Coronado, just across the San Diego Bay, said the Arizonans were ''nice enough'' -- got to keep those tips coming -- but ''sometimes they act like they are locals, like they've been coming here so long they feel like they own the place and don't care if they crowd the natives out.''
 And they have been coming for a long time.
 Of course, there is also somewhat of a reverse flow; legions of Southern Californians have relocated to southern Arizona, seeking relief from exorbitant housing costs. And Phoenicians and Tucsonans have been known to make sport of ''snowbirds'' descending on their region from the Midwest and the East in the winter.
 Nicole Nottoli, proprietor of the Big Kahuna's ice cream stand on the Pacific Beach boardwalk here, estimates 60 percent of her business comes from Arizonans, and she can easily pick them out. 
 ''Those big hats, touristy dress, pale skin,'' Ms. Nottoli said. 
 And there is the matter of air-conditioning. Arizonans just love it; coastal San Diegans prefer the natural kind. So imagine the looks when the Zonies ask for the AC to be turned on or up at restaurants and hotels -- and then search for the heat when the ''bone-chilling'' nighttime temperature dips below 70.
 Mr. Phelps pleads guilty. He said he was staying in one of the few oceanfront hotels that provide air-conditioning: ''That's the reason I like that place.''
 As he and his friends talked and joked in a shopping mall elevator recently, a longtime San Diegan turned and asked, ''You're from Arizona, aren't you?''
 ''We still don't know how she knew,'' said Mr. Phelps, who, for the record, was wearing a dark print shirt tucked into khaki shorts that, well, did not quite completely blend in with the T-shirts-and-jammers crowd.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 4, 2007

 CORRECTION:
The San Diego Journal article on Aug. 22 about the influx of Arizona residents into Southern California as summer guests referred incorrectly in some copies to one area near San Diego that is a popular destination. Coronado is a peninsula, not an island (although it is referred to colloquially as such).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: San Diego has long drawn summer visitors from Arizona like Richard Holland and his 11-year-old daughter, Haley, of Phoenix. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); BEACHES (90%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); TOURISM (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); RESTAURANTS (68%); CITY LIFE (67%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (64%); IMMUNITY (63%); CENSUS (61%); DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%) ARIZONA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



384 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: Where Investing $154 Billion Is One Man's Job

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
Warren E. Buffett may be a multibillionaire and a legend among investors, but he cannot do everything by himself. His holding company, Berkshire Hathaway, has 13 directors on its board besides Mr. Buffett, the chairman, to watch over its $269 billion in assets.
 In Albany, State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli concedes he is no Warren Buffett; he owns just a handful of telecom stocks, an I.R.A. and some mutual fund shares. But he professes few doubts about whether he, as comptroller, can ably serve as the sole trustee of the state pension fund, with assets of $154 billion. 
 ''As comptroller, the ultimate accountability is at the ballot box,'' Mr. DiNapoli said in a recent interview, echoing a sentiment widely heard across Albany. If the voters, including hundreds of thousands of pension participants, believe he has failed to protect their interests in the fund, they can throw him out in the next election, he said. It would be much harder to unseat an entire board. 
 Many in the Legislature agree, and show no sign of wanting to use their authority to increase the oversight of the state pension fund, the nation's second-largest. Still, only two other states, Connecticut and North Carolina, rely on sole trustees to safeguard their workers' retirement money. Most have boards. 
 The idea of a single trustee draws the disdain of many academics, governance experts and a few pension officials in other states, who argue that sole trusteeships are a risky anachronism. They doubt whether one person should be responsible for such a big block of other people's money -- especially an elected official, who may have party loyalties and personal or political goals that could conflict with the best interests of the pensioners. By law, pension trustees have a duty to put the interests of the participants first.
 Sole trustees ''are relics of the past,'' said Richard Koppes, a former general counsel of California's big public pension fund, known as Calpers, which has a 13-member board. 
 Scandals in various states have raised doubts about putting so much money into one set of hands. In Connecticut, one former sole trustee, Paul J. Silvester, was sentenced to a federal prison term of four years and three months after pleading guilty in 1999 to corruption charges involving misuse of the office for personal gain. New Jersey added a pension oversight board after a scandal in the late 1940s. But corruption scandals have also hit pension funds overseen by boards of directors.
 Mr. Koppes said sole trusteeships may have made sense decades ago, when pension assets were smaller and invested almost entirely in simple investments like bonds. 
 But the officials responsible for investing the giant pension funds of today must evaluate complex derivatives and hedging strategies not dreamed of a generation ago. Many are struggling to re-evaluate arcane mortgage-backed securities that once appeared safe. Pension trustees must also oversee decisions on disclosures to the public, and on adequate funding levels. They can expect to be lobbied regularly to invest in special interests of politicians, citizens or campaign contributors.
 Governor Eliot Spitzer and Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo are questioning whether one person should wield so much financial clout, but they are unlikely to find support for change in the current Legislature. After the previous comptroller was forced to resign, lawmakers rebuffed the governor's choice and went with Mr. DiNapoli, who they say should now have his own chance. ''I don't think the system is broken and requires a fix at this point,'' said Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the Legislature's top Democrat.
 Mr. Cuomo and the district attorney in Albany are conducting parallel investigations into whether the last trustee, Alan G. Hevesi, traded on his position to win favors for friends and family. Mr. Hevesi resigned in December after pleading guilty to defrauding the government by having state workers act as chauffeurs for his ailing wife, but he has denied any wrongdoing outside that case.
 Keith P. Ambachtsheer, director of the International Centre for Pension Management at the University of Toronto's Rotman School of Management, said the issue is not of one person's character but of a model that is simply not workable.
 He said pension trustees need a working knowledge of many disciplines: law, accounting, risk management, strategic planning, human resources and economics. 
 One person is unlikely to possess all those skills. Nor can one person be reasonably expected to acquire them if he or she is also cultivating a political profile or building a campaign war chest, which happens when a pension trustee is also an elected official, like the New York State comptroller.
 ''If you're a politician, you're a politician,'' said Mr. Ambachtsheer, who helped establish boards at two of Canada's largest public pension funds. ''You can't be a trustee. It's just a contradiction.'' In Canada, he pushed for retired finance professionals on the pension boards, people with adequate time and experience. He also advocated paying them so they would take the role more seriously.
 ''The statement is made that their work is valued,'' Mr. Ambachtsheer said.
 David B. Wescoe, chief executive of the San Diego pension fund, said he saw ''an inherent conflict'' when a trustee was also an elected official, between the fiduciary duty to the pension plan members on the one hand, and the separate duty to the state and its taxpayers on the other. 
 San Diego recently reconfigured its pension board after a scandal in which such conflicts played a role. Its board was dominated by city officials and employees who wanted to simultaneously rein in government spending and to offer ample pensions to workers. Unable to do both, they ended up with accounting fraud. 
 Elected officials who are pension trustees also tend to cite their funds' annual investment returns to show voters that they are doing a good job. These statistics can sound impressive, but in fact they provide little meaningful information about a trustee's stewardship of the fund, since pension returns generally follow the broader ups and downs of the stock market. 
 Mr. Hevesi, for instance, recently issued a statement through a lawyer calling his record as sole trustee ''impeccable,'' and citing the fund's growth to $150 billion from $95 billion during his four-year tenure. But total market returns during this bullish period were roughly the same or a little better.
 The lack of meaningful information is particularly acute in New York State because the pension fund has been using an unusual accounting method that has made it look perfectly balanced at all times, even in years like 2001, when it lost billions of dollars. 
 The Governmental Accounting Standards Board, an independent body that sets the rules for state and local governments, recently disallowed that accounting method, after articles in The New York Times questioned it. Mr. DiNapoli said the pension fund had already changed to an accepted method, which showed the fund had a small surplus.
 But the improvement still does not reassure many economists, who say that virtually all public pension funds understate their obligations, whatever accounting method they use. 
 Pension trustees do not generally invest workers' retirement money themselves, but farm it out to professional money managers. These professionals compete aggressively for the business. A small slice of a big pension fund can produce millions of dollars in management fees. 
 Any time a money manager contributes to a pension trustee's election campaign fund, and then receives pension money to invest, it raises the question of whether the manager might have ''bought'' the contract when another money manager would have done a better job. These questions, about what is called pay-to-play activity, have swirled around the New York State pension fund for years. 
 Investigators are looking at the campaign contributions made by various money managers to Mr. Hevesi, trying to learn whether they influenced his decisions about how to invest the fund's assets. They are also examining whether money managers improperly provided things of value to Mr. Hevesi's sons and former senior aides.
 Mr. Hevesi's lawyer said that all investment decisions on Mr. Hevesi's watch ''were made strictly on the merits.''
 The Stanford Institutional Investors' Forum, which has been trying to identify the qualities of successful pension boards, issued a report in May saying that members of an effective board had to be ready to dismiss a colleague, in case any board member acted against the pensioners' exclusive interests. A sole trustee could not do that, because it would mean firing himself.
 Mr. DiNapoli said he was well aware of the pension fund's need for strong, independent oversight. He said he had already created an inspector general to provide a new layer of internal control over the fund. And because campaign contributions by money managers have been such a sore point over the years, he has recommended that the comptroller's election campaign be at least partially financed with public money. 
 Still, Mr. DiNapoli said he believed a sole trustee could provide more accountability than a board, and cited cases in other states where board members had failed to act independently of the governors or unions that had appointed them.
 He said there was a long bipartisan tradition in New York State of governors and legislatures trying to raid the pension fund when money got tight -- and of sole trustees beating them back. Arthur Levitt Sr., a past comptroller, withstood pressure to use the pension fund to bail New York City out of its fiscal crisis in the 1970s. His successor, Edward V. Regan, and later H. Carl McCall, blocked efforts by governors to reduce the state's contributions to the fund to balance the budget. 
 Political realities make it unlikely that New York State's sole trusteeship will be abolished any time soon. Doing so would take an amendment to the State Constitution, an arduous process that requires two subsequent Legislatures to enact a bill to that effect.
 Senator Dale M. Volker, a Republican from the Buffalo area, sponsored a bill in 2002 that would have taken the sole trusteeship away from the comptroller but said he would not propose such a measure now. He said he had told Mr. DiNapoli he would give him a chance ''to see how you'll do.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas P. DiNapoli is the pension fund's sole trustee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5)
 Alan G. Hevesi resigned as comptroller in December. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON DECROW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); CORRUPTION (85%); SCANDALS (85%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SENTENCING (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); LITIGATION (66%); GUILTY PLEAS (65%); LAWYERS (64%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (63%); PRISONS (60%)

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



385 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Reversing Course, France Seeks an Active Role in Iraq

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 21 

 BODY:
After years of shunning involvement in a war it said was wrong, France now believes that it may hold the key to peace in Iraq, proposing itself as an ''honest broker'' between the Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish factions there.
 During a three-day visit to Baghdad that ended Tuesday, the French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, said the time had come for France, and Europe, to play a greater role in Iraq. 
 ''I believe this is the moment. Everyone knows the Americans will not be able to get this country out of difficulty alone,'' Mr. Kouchner told the French radio station RTL on Tuesday before returning to Paris. 
 ''This is about having an opinion and knowing what positive things one can do and what role France can play in this region,'' he said, adding that Iraq was ''expecting something'' from France.
 The shift was one of the most concrete signs yet of the thaw in French-American relations after the election in May of President Nicolas Sarkozy, whose administration no longer feels bound by the refusal to play a role in Iraq that characterized the reign of his predecessor, Jacques Chirac.
 The United States broadly welcomed Mr. Kouchner's visit to Baghdad this week, saying it was evidence that the world was increasingly intent on bringing stability to Iraq. British and German diplomats also hailed greater French involvement in the country.
 A senior official close to Mr. Kouchner said that France sought a role in political mediation in Iraq, and that it had no intention of entering the military conflict.
 One of the options under consideration, the official said, would be a peace conference that would bring Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish representatives to one table, modeled on a similar gathering Mr. Kouchner organized for Lebanese factions last month. Such a conference could be organized in France or in one of Iraq's neighbors, said the official, who declined to be identified because the issue was still under discussion.
 Another possibility was for Mr. Kouchner to embark on shuttle diplomacy among the factions, the official said.
 The French move carries the personal mark of Mr. Kouchner, who was one of the few French politicians to back the forcible removal of Saddam Hussein before the American-led invasion in 2003, and whose longstanding relations with Kurdish and Shiite leaders have earned him credibility in the region. During his visit to Iraq, he held talks with religious and political leaders, including Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and President Jalal Talabani, whom he has known for three decades.
 ''France in general and Bernard Kouchner in particular are uniquely placed to be an honest broker in Iraq,'' the French official said.
 He did not rule out the possibility that France would at some point help train more Iraqi security forces or that French companies might participate in the country's reconstruction as part of a larger European initiative, but he stressed that this was not the focus of the current proposal.
 Mr. Kouchner's trip, the first to Iraq by a French minister since the invasion, renewed interest in reports that the French oil company Total may seek a stake in Iraqi oil fields. This month, the French news media reported that Total and one of its American rivals, Chevron, were seeking to jointly explore Iraq's fourth largest oil field.
 But Mr. Kouchner's office said that no oil executives had accompanied him to Iraq and that economic interests were not the focus of the trip.
 Previously, France had limited its involvement in postwar Iraq to forgiving almost $5.5 billion in debt that Iraq owed it and using its permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council to vote for a greater role for the international body.
 Selling the idea of increased involvement in Iraq to the French people may prove difficult. Even within Mr. Kouchner's Foreign Ministry, some diplomats remain skeptical of his initiative, warning that it could put France at greater risk of a terrorist attack.
 As one diplomat explained, ''The prevailing view in a significant part of the French diplomatic community is that mediation in Iraq is futile and that the civil war needs to run its course and hand a decisive victory to one faction before the violence can end.''
 Political opponents of the French leadership jumped at the opportunity to criticize Mr. Kouchner, a founder of the aid organization Doctors Without Borders and a former United Nations administrator for Kosovo.
 Jean-Pierre Chevenement, a former Socialist minister and former presidential candidate, accused Mr. Kouchner of ''repenting'' before President Bush for France's opposition to the war and said the trip risked destroying France's diplomatic standing in the Arab world.
 Nonetheless, in the French news media a cautious consensus is emerging on both sides of the political divide that it might be in the French interest to take a role in Iraq.
 ''France owed it to itself to return to Iraq,'' the conservative newspaper Le Figaro said in an editorial on Tuesday. ''You can shut yourself off for four years in the conviction to have been right, but that doesn't increase the role our country plays on the international scene.''
 Or, as the left-leaning Le Monde put it, ''It's time to stop lecturing the Americans about their errors and start contributing to a solution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari of Iraq, Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner of France and President Jalal Talabani of Iraq, yesterday during Mr. Kouchner's visit to Baghdad. PHOTO (POOL PHOTO BY HADI MIZBAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICS (72%); RELIGION (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%)

PERSON: BERNARD KOUCHNER (90%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (77%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); JALAL TALABANI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%) FRANCE (99%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2007



386 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Trade Surplus Narrowed in July

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Japan's trade surplus narrowed more in July than economists had forecast as automobile exports cooled, heightening concern that growth in Japan, the world's second-largest economy, might slow. 
 The surplus shrank 21.1 percent in July from a year earlier, to 671.2 billion yen ($5.9 billion), the first drop since January, the Finance Ministry said in Tokyo yesterday. The median estimate of 35 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for 844 billion yen.
 Export growth to the United States slowed to 1.3 percent, a fifth of the pace of the previous month, underlining concern that a slump in the American housing market is damping demand for Japanese cars and electronics. The yen's 3.7 percent gain against the dollar this month could further depress sales overseas.
 Exports rose 11.7 percent, to 7.06 trillion yen, last month, less than the 13 percent expected by economists. The increase in June was 16 percent. Growth in shipments to Europe and China also slowed.
 Imports climbed 16.9 percent, to a record 6.39 trillion yen, as a weaker yen in July drove energy costs higher. July oil prices in yen terms were 8.7 percent more than in the corresponding month a year earlier and the highest since September. Japan imports virtually all of its oil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); SHIPMENTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



387 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 832 words

 BODY:
DRUGSTORE CHECKUP Call it urgent care lite: patients who tire of waiting to see a doctor go to a clinic in their neighborhood drugstore instead. Several companies are looking for new sites in the New York City market, and some states are looking for better ways to monitor these clinics. 
 MINING METHOD IS QUESTIONED The Bush administration is on the verge of enshrining the practice by coal-mining companies of removing mountaintops, a 20-year-old technique that involves blasting off the tops of mountains and dumping the rubble into valleys. Not surprisingly, environmentalists oppose the plan. [A1.] 
 SUICIDE IN CHINA The death of a Chinese businessman, Zhang Shuhong, made international headlines not long after Mattel, the world's largest toy maker, blamed his company for the recall of one million toys coated in toxic lead paint. But Mr. Zhang's suicide may have resulted in part from the pressures and contradictions of its loosely regulated brand of Chinese capitalism. [C1.]
 PROFIT PLUNGES FOR TOLL BROS. Toll Brothers, the biggest builder of luxury homes in the United States, has reported that its third-quarter profit plummeted nearly 85 percent as the housing downturn and credit worries resulted in cancellations and hefty write-downs. [C10.]
 A HURDLE FOR COUNTRYWIDE Troubled homeowners seeking to decrease their interest rates or make other changes to their mortgage loans are already finding it more difficult to do so because their loans have been pooled and sold to investors. But borrowers who received loans from Countrywide Home Loans may find it even more difficult. [C1.] 
 SUBPRIME LENDING CHANGESLehman Brothers intends to close its subprime unit, BNC Mortgage, and lay off 1,200 workers. The bank said it would take a $52 million hit to third-quarter earnings. Also, Accredited Home Lenders, a subprime lender based in San Diego, has stopped making loans through brokers and laid off 1,600 people. [C1.]
 AT ODDS OVER GAMBLING The United States is doing just about everything it legally can to keep Americans from gambling online. The actions, however, violate a World Trade Organization ruling and could call into question the agency's effectiveness. [C1.] 
 PROGRAMMABLE KEYS How about this for a timesaver? Macro keys can memorize steps so that all a user has to do is punch a key to perform a specific function normally requiring several strokes. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.] 
 BIG BANKS SET AN EXAMPLECitigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Wachovia have borrowed $500 million each from the Federal Reserve's discount window in a largely symbolic gesture to encourage its use by other banks. [C10.]
 Wall Street advanced, its first substantial move higher after the Fed lowered its discount rate Friday. [C12.]
 IPHONE BILLING CHANGES AT&T, the service provider for iPhones, says it will reduce the 300-page itemized bills owners have been receiving by snail mail. Instead, consumers will be billed online, and if you want a detailed bill, you'll have to pay for it. [C2.]
 PRIZED ROOTS In Asia, wild ginseng's roots have been prized for their supposed healing powers, properties believed to be missing in the farmed variety. So in South Korea, armies of ginseng seekers forage in the country's thickly forested mountains to find wild ginseng. After all, there's money to be made. [A4.]
 NO LIFT FOR PONTIAC The Pontiac Solstice, a low-slung, head-turning roadster, seemed the perfect antidote for the General Motors brand. But sales of the Solstice, which are down 19 percent this year through July and have failed to help revive the brand. [C3.]
 NYMEX SALE APPEARS LIKELY Wall Street has shown its approval of a possible takeover of the commodities exchange operator Nymex, which has said it was in discussions with a possible buyer. But who? [C4.]
 CASINO DEAL Dubai World, the Dubai state-owned investment firm, will invest more than $5 billion in MGM Mirage, making the company a major player in the biggest gambling destination in the United States. [C4.]
 TALK WITH, AND SEE AUNT BETTY Don't just talk to your relatives, see them. Now it is easy and inexpensive to add video to your next telephone call to the cousins, using off-the-shelf products and a PC. [C7.]
 OIL DISPUTE RESOLVED A 15-month dispute over an offshore oil project involving several big oil companies and the Canadian provinces of Newfoundland and Labrador has ended, setting the $5.6 billion development of the Hebron oil field back in motion. [C3.]
 JAPAN'S OVERTURES TO INDIA Japan is trying to strengthen economic ties with India by sending one of its largest business delegations, led by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, left, to visit its neighbor. ''The two largest democracies in Asia share basic values,'' Mr. Abe said. Stronger cooperation by the nations is ''important for the peace and prosperity of the entire world,'' he added. Mr. Abe said that trade between the countries would reach $20 billion over the next three years, triple its current levels. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); LAYOFFS (88%); MINES & MINING (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); SUICIDE (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); LEAD (72%); COAL MINING (72%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%); LOAN BROKERS (65%); ACCREDITATION (62%); SMARTPHONES (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (55%); LEAD PAINT (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



388 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: Place Your Bet

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

 BODY:
With long blond hair reaching his shoulders and dozens of cloth bracelets peeking out from under his sleeves, Mark E. Mendel hardly conjures up the image of a typical lawyer.
 But then there is nothing run-of-the-mill about the case that Mr. Mendel, a Texan who was born and raised in Southern California, has been waging against his own government before the World Trade Organization, the body in Geneva that sets the ground rules for global trade. It is a clash that at once challenges Washington's effort to prohibit online gambling while simultaneously testing the ability of the W.T.O. to enforce its own standards.
 The dispute stretches back to 2003, when Mr. Mendel first persuaded officials in Antigua and Barbuda, a tiny nation in the Caribbean with a population of around 70,000, to instigate a trade complaint against the United States, claiming its ban against Americans gambling over the Internet violated Antigua and Barbuda's rights as a member of the W.T.O. 
 Antigua is best known to Americans for its pristine beaches and tourist attractions like historic English Harbor. But the dozens of online casinos based there are vital to the island's economy, serving as its second-largest employer. 
 More than a few people in Washington initially dismissed as absurd the idea that the trade organization could claim jurisdiction over something as basic as a country's own policies toward gambling. Various states and the federal government, after all, have been deeply engaged for decades in where and when to allow the operation of casinos, Indian gambling halls, racetracks, lotteries and the like.
 But a W.T.O. panel ruled against the United States in 2004, and its appellate body upheld that decision one year later. In March, the organization upheld that ruling for a second time and declared Washington out of compliance with its rules. 
 That has placed the United States in a quandary, said John H. Jackson, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center who specializes in international trade law. 
 Complying with the W.T.O. ruling, Professor Jackson said, would require Congress and the Bush administration either to reverse course and permit Americans to place bets online legally with offshore casinos or, equally unlikely, impose an across-the-board ban on all forms of Internet gambling -- including the online purchase of lottery tickets, participation in Web-based pro sports fantasy leagues and off-track wagering on horse racing.
 But not complying with the decision presents big problems of its own for Washington. That's because Mr. Mendel, who is claiming $3.4 billion in damages on behalf of Antigua, has asked the trade organization to grant a rare form of compensation if the American government refuses to accept the ruling: permission for Antiguans to violate intellectual property laws by allowing them to distribute copies of American music, movie and software products, among others.
 For the W.T.O. itself, the decision is equally fraught with peril. It cannot back down because that would undermine its credibility with the rest of the world. But if it actually carries out the penalties, it risks a political backlash in the United States, the most powerful force for free-flowing global trade and the W.T.O.'s biggest backer.
 ''Think of this from the W.T.O.'s point of view,'' said Charles R. Nesson, a professor at Harvard Law School. ''They're this fledgling organization dominated by a huge monster in the United States. People there must be scared out of their wits at the prospects of enforcing a ruling that would instantly galvanize public opinion in the United States against the W.T.O.'' 
 In April 2005, the trade body gave the United States one year to comply with its ruling, but that deadline passed with little more than a statement from Washington that it had reviewed its laws and decided it has been in compliance all along. The case is now before an arbitration body charged with assessing damages. 
 ''The stakes here are enormous,'' Professor Nesson said.
 If anything, the Bush administration raised those stakes in May when it announced it was removing gambling services from existing trade agreements. John K. Veroneau, a deputy trade representative, said that the federal government was only ''clarifying our view'' that it had never meant to include online gambling in any free trade agreements.
 ''It is truly untenable to think that we would knowingly bargain away something that has been illegal for decade upon decade in this country,'' Mr. Veroneau said, adding that Washington is not defying the W.T.O. but simply pursuing its case through all legal channels.
 The W.T.O. allowed that Washington probably had not intended to include online gambling when it agreed to the inclusion of ''recreational services'' and other similar language in agreements reached during the early 1990s, when the W.T.O. was first established. But the organization says it has no choice but to enforce the plain language of the pacts.
 ''Geneva is certainly buzzing about this case,'' said Lode Van Den Hende, an international trade lawyer with the firm of Herbert Smith in Brussels.
 One reason for all the interest is the David-and-Goliath aspect of the case. Another is that the dispute, as the trade organization's first to deal with the Internet, is likely to serve as a major precedent in establishing rules of commerce in an online age and dealing with such prickly issues as China's attempts to block online content it finds offensive. 
 Yet another reason the fraternity of trade lawyers and experts are so closely watching the case, Mr. Van Den Hende said, is ''that the U.S. is not behaving as one would expect.''
 ''One day they're out there saying how scandalous it is that China doesn't respect W.T.O. decisions,'' he said. ''But then the next day there's a dispute that doesn't go their way and their attitude is: The decision is completely wrong, these judges don't know what they're doing, why should we comply?'' 
 It's not clear that Mr. Mendel knew just how much of a hornet's nest he would stir up with this case. But he certainly seems to be enjoying the attention. 
 In 2002, Mr. Mendel -- who does not gamble and knew little about international trade -- was little more than a corporate lawyer in El Paso specializing in securities law. His law partner, though, was friends with Jay Cohen, an operator of an offshore sports betting operation in Antigua who had been sentenced to 21 months in prison for taking bets over the Internet from Americans. Mr. Cohen asked his friend to see if there was anything his firm could do.
 ''I had not done any trade law whatsoever, but for whatever reason this issue really struck my curiosity,'' Mr. Mendel said. Beyond the intellectual challenge, the case also offered the prospect of a set of deep-pocketed clients -- the online casinos doing business out of Antigua.
 So Mr. Mendel, 51, who recently moved his family and his practice to Ireland to be closer to Geneva, jumped in enthusiastically. 
 Washington responded to Antigua's complaint by claiming it was within its rights to seek to block online gambling on moral grounds, just as any Muslim country would be within its rights under international trade agreements to ban the import of alcoholic beverages. The W.T.O. rejected this argument as inconsistent with American policy.
 The general rule in the world of international trade agreements is that a country must treat foreign goods and services in the same manner as it treats domestic ones. The United States, the trade body found, permits online wagering through sites like Youbet.com, a publicly traded company that allows visitors to place bets at horse racing tracks around the globe. 
 And, of course, some form of casino gambling is legal in more than 30 states, and even local governments advertise gambling services when states encourage people to buy a lottery ticket.
 ''This isn't a case of forcing gambling on a population that has decided they don't like it,'' Mr. Mendel said. ''This is the world's biggest consumer and exporter of gambling services trying to prohibit a small country from developing its economy by offering these same services. And we find that deeply hypocritical.''
 Indeed, despite all the obstacles Washington has imposed, including making it a crime for banks and credit card companies to handle Internet gambling payments, millions of Americans still manage to play poker and place sports bets online. Many more would certainly do so if the obstacles were removed. 
 The United States has exhausted its appeals, so Mr. Mendel and lawyers for the United States are arguing over the extent of damages that Antigua has suffered.
 Antigua presents a particularly thorny challenge. To balance the scales, a country that wins a W.T.O. case typically demands trade penalties equal to its losses as compensation. But Antigua is so small that any ordinary trade sanctions would barely register in the United States. 
 ''Compensation is not a check in the mail,'' Professor Jackson of Georgetown said. ''It's the right to raise trade barriers against the country in violation.'' Whatever trade barriers Antigua imposed, he said, ''would feel like a pin prick.'' 
 To get around that limitation, Antigua is seeking the right under international law to violate American intellectual property laws.
 Only once has the trade organization done so, with Ecuador, though Ecuador never actually took advantage of that power. It was used instead as a cudgel to force Ecuador's opponents to back down.
 ''This is all new territory,'' said Simon Lester, who worked in the appeals unit of the W.T.O. before helping to found WorldTradeLaw.net, which provides legal analysis of trade law disputes.
 Mr. Lester expects Hollywood, the music industry and software makers like Microsoft to press Washington to work things out with Antigua.
 ''But the question,'' he said, ''is whether that would be enough to make Congress do something.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John K. Veroneau is a deputy U.S. trade representative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN CEDENO/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. C9)
 Mark E. Mendel represents Antigua and Barbuda in its trade complaint against the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED MERZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1) GRAPH: ''AMERICA CRACKS DOWN'' Last October, Washington made it a crime for Americans to use credit cards and online payments for Internet gambling, slowing the growth of the global industry. (Source: Christiansen Capital Advisors)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); GAMING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); BEACHES (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (67%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (66%); HORSE RACING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); LOTTERIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (98%); SWITZERLAND (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



389 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Rule to Expand Mountaintop Coal Mining

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is set to issue a regulation on Friday that would enshrine the coal mining practice of mountaintop removal. The technique involves blasting off the tops of mountains and dumping the rubble into valleys and streams.
 It has been used in Appalachian coal country for 20 years under a cloud of legal and regulatory confusion. 
 The new rule would allow the practice to continue and expand, providing only that mine operators minimize the debris and cause the least environmental harm, although those terms are not clearly defined and to some extent merely restate existing law. 
 The Office of Surface Mining in the Interior Department drafted the rule, which will be subject to a 60-day comment period and could be revised, although officials indicated that it was not likely to be changed substantially.
 The regulation is the culmination of six and a half years of work by the administration to make it easier for mining companies to dig more coal to meet growing energy demands and reduce dependence on foreign oil.
 Government and industry officials say the rules are needed to clarify existing laws, which have been challenged in court and applied unevenly. 
 A spokesman for the National Mining Association, Luke Popovich, said that unless mine owners were allowed to dump mine waste in streams and valleys it would be impossible to operate in mountainous regions like West Virginia that hold some of the richest low-sulfur coal seams. 
 All mining generates huge volumes of waste, known as excess spoil or overburden, and it has to go somewhere. For years, it has been trucked away and dumped in remote hollows of Appalachia.
 Environmental activists say the rule change will lead to accelerated pillage of vast tracts and the obliteration of hundreds of miles of streams in central Appalachia. 
 ''This is a parting gift to the coal industry from this administration,'' said Joe Lovett, executive director of the Appalachian Center for the Economy and the Environment in Lewisburg, W.Va. ''What is at stake is the future of Appalachia. This is an attempt to make legal what has long been illegal.'' 
 Mr. Lovett said his group and allied environmental and community organizations would consider suing to block the new rule.
 Mountaintop mining is the most common strip mining in central Appalachia, and the most destructive. Ridge tops are flattened with bulldozers and dynamite, clearing all vegetation and, at times, forcing residents to move.
 The coal seams are scraped with gigantic machines called draglines. The law requires mining companies to reclaim and replant the land, but the process always produces excess debris. 
 Roughly half the coal in West Virginia is from mountaintop mining, which is generally cheaper, safer and more efficient than extraction from underground mines like the Crandall Canyon Mine in Utah, which may have claimed the lives of nine miners and rescuers, and the Sago Mine in West Virginia, where 12 miners were killed last year. 
 The rule, which would apply to waste from both types of mines, is known as the stream buffer zone rule. First adopted in 1983, it forbids virtually all mining within 100 feet of a river or stream. 
 The Interior Department drafted the proposal to try to clear up a 10-year legal and regulatory dispute over how the 1983 rule should be applied. The change is to be published on Friday in The Federal Register, officials said.
 The Army Corps of Engineers, state mining authorities and local courts have read the rule liberally, allowing extensive mountaintop mining and dumping of debris in coal-rich regions of West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia. 
 From 1985 to 2001, 724 miles of streams were buried under mining waste, according to the environmental impact statement accompanying the new rule. 
 If current practices continue, another 724 river miles will be buried by 2018, the report says.
 Environmental groups have gone to court many times, with limited success, to slow or stop the practice. They won an important ruling in federal court in 1999, but it was overturned in 2001 on procedural and jurisdictional grounds.
 The Clinton administration began moving in 1998 to tighten enforcement of the stream rule, but the clock ran out before it could enact new regulations. The Bush administration has been much friendlier to mining interests, which have been reliable contributors to the Republican Party, and has worked on the new rule change since 2001.
 The early stages of the revision process were supported by J. Stephen Griles, a former industry lobbyist who was the deputy interior secretary from 2001 to 2004. Mr. Griles had been deputy director of the Office of Surface Mining in the Reagan administration and is knowledgeable about the issues and generally supports the industry.
 In June, Mr. Griles was sentenced to 10 months in prison and three years' probation for lying to a Senate committee about his ties to Jack Abramoff, the lobbyist at the heart of a corruption scandal who is now in prison. 
 Interior Department officials said they could not comment on the rule because it had not been published. But a senior official of the Office of Surface Mining said the stream buffer rule was never intended to prohibit all mining in and around streams, but rather just to minimize the effects of such work.
 Even with the best techniques and most careful reclamation, surface or underground mining will always generate mountains of dirt and rock, he said.
 ''There's really no place to put the material except in the upper reaches of hollows,'' the official said. ''If you can't put anything in a stream, there's really no way to even underground mine.''
 He said the regulation would explicitly state that the buffer zone rule does not apply for hundreds of miles of streams and valleys and that he hoped, but did not expect, that the rule would end the fight over mine waste.
 Mr. Lovett of the Appalachian Center said the rule would only stoke a new battle. 
 ''They are not strengthening the buffer zone rule,'' he said. ''They are just destroying it. By sleight of hand, they are removing one of the few protections streams now have from the most egregious mining activities.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mountaintop coal mining at Hale Gap, Va. Appalachian mines have used technique for 20 years under a cloud of confusion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL TEMCHINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (93%); MINES & MINING (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); MINING ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); MINE WORKERS (78%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); UNDERGROUND MINING (73%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



390 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Deal Restarts Newfoundland Oil Project

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
A 15-month standoff between the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador and several major oil companies over an offshore oil project ended Wednesday, putting the $5.6 billion development back in motion. 
 Last year, the province's premier, Danny Williams, walked away from talks with a consortium that includes Exxon Mobil and is led by Chevron Canada after the companies rejected his demands for an equity stake and additional royalties when oil prices are high.
 On Wednesday Mr. Williams, a Conservative and a multimillionaire, announced that he now had an agreement that would give his province a 4.9 percent stake in the Hebron oil project for 110 million Canadian dollars ($103.8 million).
 The tentative pact with the oil companies, he added, also includes an extra 6.5 percent royalty, on top of a 30 percent base rate, and removes the special investment tax credits that the oil industry had demanded.
 ''This is a happy day for the province,'' Mr. Williams said by telephone from the provincial capital of St. John's. ''We're entering into a whole new era.''
 The deal largely fulfills Mr. Williams's demands from 2006, with the exception of the addition of an oil-processing operation in the province. 
 Exactly what broke the impasse is unclear. James C. Bates, a vice president in charge of asset development at Chevron Canada, which is based in Calgary, Alberta, declined to comment on what had closed the gaps between the sides. Mr. Bates characterized the outcome as ''a win-win situation.'' The Hebron oil field contains an estimated 731 million barrels of oil. As with most energy projects in Canada, the vast majority of its production will most likely flow to the United States.
 Some analysts estimate that construction may begin in 2010.
 Hebron will be Newfoundland's fourth offshore oil project. Mr. Williams said that given the agreement's terms and expected high oil prices, Hebron would be unusually lucrative, generating about 16 billion Canadian dollars ($15.1 billion) for Newfoundland over 25 years as well as 7 billion Canadian dollars for the federal government.
 Newfoundland struggled economically even before joining Canada in 1949. The collapse of cod stocks in recent years devastated its main industry, fishing and fish packing.
 But Wade Locke, an economist at Memorial University in St. John's, said that oil royalties and energy industry spending meant that Newfoundland would no longer qualify for financial assistance from the federal government by the end of 2009.
 ''Hebron, combined with everything else, will turn Newfoundland into a province of opportunity, like Alberta,'' he said, referring to the affluent and oil-rich western province.
 While Mr. Williams's tough stand last year drew criticism from parts of Canada's business community, it contributed to his party's 75 percent approval rating among Newfoundland voters in opinion polls. The announcement of a Hebron agreement is expected to help sustain the Conservatives' position as they head into an election in October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); SEAFOOD PROCESSING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); CHEVRON CANADA LTD (57%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (96%); ALBERTA, CANADA (90%) CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



391 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1697 words

HEADLINE: Behind 9/11 Demolition Work, Obscure Name and Slim Record

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI, DAVID W. DUNLAP and WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

 BODY:
The John Galt Corporation of the Bronx, hired last year for the dangerous and complex job of demolishing the former Deutsche Bank building at 130 Liberty Street, where two firefighters died last Saturday, has apparently never done any work like it. Indeed, Galt does not seem to have done much of anything since it was incorporated in 1983.
 Public and private records give no indication of how many employees it has, what its volume of business is or who its clients are. There are almost no accounts of any projects it has undertaken on any scale, apart from 130 Liberty Street. Court records are largely silent. Some leading construction executives in the city say they have never even heard of it.
 That may not be as surprising as it seems. John Galt, it appears, is not much more than a corporate entity meant to accommodate the people and companies actually doing the demolition job at the emotionally charged and environmentally hazardous site at the edge of ground zero. 
 The companies and project managers who have been providing the expertise, the workers and the financing for the job are Regional Scaffolding and Hoisting Company, which is not in business to demolish skyscrapers, and former executives from Safeway Environmental Corporation, a company that was already removed from one contract at 130 Liberty because of concerns about its integrity.
 Using a separate corporation to insulate the assets of a parent company from the enormous potential liabilities of demolition work is not itself unusual. And challenging construction projects in the city often have several companies come together in a joint effort.
 The arrangement involving Galt -- achieved after multiple companies that had bid on the Deutsche Bank contract were eliminated for one reason or another -- is nonetheless odd for such a momentous job, one that is expected ultimately to cost roughly $150 million. 
 The arrangement, never fully publicly disclosed, was proposed by the general contractor charged with overseeing the demolition, Bovis Lend Lease, and approved by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, which owns 130 Liberty Street.
 Yesterday, Bovis announced that it had declared Galt in default on the bank building contract, saying the outfit Bovis had selected had failed ''to live up to terms of its contract with respect to site supervision, maintenance and project safety.'' One person who has spoken to Bovis executives, but who was not authorized to speak for the company, said it was likely that Galt would be formally fired within the week.
 When officials at the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation approved Galt's participation, they even allowed two former senior Safeway executives to join the operation at the Deutsche Bank building on several conditions, including that they cooperate with an investigation being conducted by the city's Department of Investigation.
 In the 17 months since Galt took shape -- and as problems mounted at the demolition site, including repeated safety violations -- city and state officials have made announcements about the work and problems at 130 Liberty referring to John Galt as if it were a fully established corporation, and never mentioning by name the more controversial and less than perfectly qualified people and companies doing the work.
 (John Galt, by the way, is a central character, an engineer, in Ayn Rand's novel ''Atlas Shrugged.'' The book begins with this line: ''Who is John Galt?'')
 John Galt's stationery puts its headquarters at 3900 Webster Avenue in the Bronx, near Woodlawn Cemetery, the same address as Regional Scaffolding's. The two companies also share many of the same officers.
 Greg Blinn, who is shown in city records as the president of the John Galt Corporation, said in a telephone interview: ''I'm not really sure how I can help. My contract precludes me from talking to the media. I have to refer all questions or inquiries to the L.M.D.C.''
 Daniel L. Doctoroff, the city's deputy mayor for economic development, who was a member of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation at the time it approved the Galt contract, said through a spokesman this week that safeguards had been put in place to make sure that the former Safeway executives did nothing inappropriate -- like funnel money back to Safeway.
 Those safeguards included enlisting the help of an integrity monitor who would scrutinize, among other things, Galt's hiring, purchases and financial transactions. 
 The complicated nature of the arrangement on the demolition job resulted to a great extent from the difficulty Bovis and the state had in attracting any contractors interested in, or capable of, performing the novel and high-profile job.
 It is not hard to understand why most contractors -- particularly during a building boom, when they can pick and choose work -- would balk at doing a job involving hazardous materials under microscopic regulatory scrutiny for a governmental client whipsawed by demands that demolition go faster (so that ground zero redevelopment could proceed) and slower (to ensure that contaminants were not released into the neighborhood).
 Add to that the extremely high cost of obtaining insurance for the work, and the lack of any meaningful precedent for the operation, and most companies would see a recipe for delay, escalating costs and shrinking profits.
 Safeway first surfaced on the scene at 130 Liberty when it, along with Regional Scaffolding, won a $13 million scaffolding contract in 2005 for the bank building.
 But Safeway, its former owners, Harold Greenberg, 61, and Stephen Chasin, 56, and another company they long operated, Big Apple Wrecking and Construction Corporation, had a troubled history.
 Mr. Greenberg, of Staten Island, has gone to federal prison twice for crimes related to the industry.
 Identified by federal investigators as a Gambino crime family associate, he was convicted in 1988 of bribing a federal inspector to overlook asbestos-removal violations while Big Apple was demolishing Gimbels department store on East 86th Street in Manhattan. Three years later he pleaded guilty to mail fraud in a bid-rigging scheme involving other contractors.
 Safeway's failure to disclose his criminal history and the accusations of mob ties led the authorities to bar the company from working on city schools in 2003. School investigators contended that Mr. Greenberg and his partner in Big Apple and Safeway, Mr. Chasin, sought to disguise their roles in companies in order to obtain public contracts and other work from which his convictions would bar them.
 (Safeway Environmental was one of the subcontractors used in the development of a new headquarters for The New York Times, across Eighth Avenue from the Port Authority Bus Terminal.)
 Neither Mr. Greenberg nor Mr. Chasin could be reached for comment. Calls left at their offices and homes were not returned.
 The two former Safeway executives, Mitchel Alvo and Don Adler, declined to comment.
 At the city's insistence, Safeway was ultimately bounced from the scaffolding contract at the bank building.
 Meanwhile, the effort to take down the building moved slowly, as litigation and fights over costs and responsibility dragged on.
 By early 2006, though, Bovis, a multibillion-dollar global operation, had won the giant contract to oversee the demolition of the bank building. Seven contractors submitted bids to Bovis to do the demolition work under Bovis's direction. Some, though, were deemed not qualified. Others dropped out. 
 That all opened the way for what was known as the John Galt Corporation.
 ''There was only one contractor willing to work on taking down the building, as far as I know,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said on Tuesday.
 Thus began the negotiations to allow Galt to go forward and tackle the contaminated building. According to an agreement between the state and Bovis, John Galt was allowed to take on Mr. Alvo and Mr. Adler, the two former Safeway executives. 
 ''A series of conditions were included in the contract at the direction of L.M.D.C. that prevented questionable individuals from working at this job or from having any association with John Galt,'' said Mr. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor. ''Once Galt and Bovis agreed to these stipulations, representatives on the L.M.D.C. board from the city joined their state counterparts and voted to approve the contract amendment to Bovis.''
 According to the agreement, portions of which were shared with a reporter, neither John Galt nor Bovis could employ or use the services of any other senior executives, principals or owners of Safeway Environmental or two other companies, one of them Big Apple Wrecking.
 The contractors also agreed to allow Mr. Alvo and Mr. Adler to cooperate with the city's Department of Investigation in what was described in the agreement -- without elaboration -- as an ongoing investigation.
 The presence of Mr. Alvo and Mr. Adler on the 130 Liberty Street project was not mentioned in the development corporation's March announcement but was highlighted in a Daily News article on April 16, 2006.
 John Galt, having done little, if any, work before the 130 Liberty Street project, did actually try to win another project shortly after starting work at the bank building.
 It was the winning bidder for the demolition contract at the Bronx House of Detention in the summer of 2006. But it failed to obtain approval through the city's contract review process and lost the job because, officials say, they learned that the city's Department of Investigation had opened an investigation into John Galt.
 ''In July 2006, E.D.C. and the developer were made aware that D.O.I. had initiated an investigation of Galt that might delay a background clearance, so the developer instead used the next lowest bidder,'' said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 Galt's work at the Deutsche Bank building, however, went on unaffected.
 Deputy Mayor Doctoroff said the city's decision to deny Galt the Bronx contract did not obligate the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation to re-examine whether Galt was the right company to be working at ground zero.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Thursday about the John Galt Corporation, the demolition subcontractor working on the Deutsche Bank building at ground zero, gave an erroneous attribution for statements about the safeguards under which Galt was hired and about Galt's failed bid for another city job in the Bronx. The statements -- both in paraphrase and in direct quotation -- were by John Gallagher, a spokesman for Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, not by Mr. Doctoroff himself. (Mr. Gallagher was speaking in his own right, not for Mr. Doctoroff.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Regional Scaffolding and Hoisting Company in the Bronx is one of the companies behind the John Galt Corporation, the demolition contractor for the Deutsche Bank building. Regional Scaffolding is not in the business of demolishing skyscrapers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SITE PREPARATION CONTRACTORS (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (76%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (75%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); APPROVALS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (55%)

COMPANY: GALT CORP (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (84%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (84%); DBK (FRA) (84%); DBK (BIT) (84%); DBETN (JSE) (84%); DBA (ASX) (84%); DB (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



392 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Asian Stocks Up in Early Trading, Buoyed by Rise on Wall St.

BYLINE: By DOW JONES

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Thursday, Aug. 23 

 BODY:
Asian stocks pushed higher early Thursday, as a strong showing on United States markets inspired investors to unwind some of the recent damage.
 In China, the benchmark Shanghai composite index crossed the 5,000 mark for the first time shortly after opening. 
 The main Australian stock gauge rose 2.6 percent in early trading, to 6,159, the highest level in nearly two weeks. The Kospi index in South Korea fared still better, rising 3.2 percent to 1,816, coming close to recovering the ground lost during the rout last Thursday and Friday.
 Japan's benchmark Nikkei index of 225 stocks gained 2.6 percent, to 16,314, helped by a weaker yen and its impact on exports. In New Zealand, shares were up 1.2 percent.
 Traders are looking for word from the Japanese central bank, which is to announce a decision on interest rates around midday. Expectations of a rate increase have faded in recent weeks because of rising concern about the economic fallout of the global crisis in the credit markets.
 If the central bank decides not to raise rates, the Nikkei could recover to its high of last Thursday, 16,296, said Kazuhiro Takahashi, general manager at Daiwa Securities.
 Traders in Australia said they were encouraged by late news that Bank of America had made an equity investment of $2 billion in Countrywide Financial, the biggest American mortgage lender. Only last week, analysts were questioning whether the company would have to declare bankruptcy because it was unable to obtain additional financing sources.
 Asian traders also took their lead from their counterparts in the United States after the re-emergence of an old friend of stock buyers: merger news. The discount broker TD Ameritrade Holding and Nymex Holdings each said it was in early talks with prospective buyers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MERGERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (63%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (53%); CME GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); AMTD (NYSE) (53%); CME (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); JAPAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



393 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Drugstore Clinics Spread, and Scrutiny Grows

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW; Colin Moynihan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The concept has been called urgent care ''lite'': Patients who are tired of waiting days to see a doctor for bronchitis, pinkeye or a sprained ankle can instead walk into a nearby drugstore and, at lower cost, with brief waits, see a doctor or a nurse and then fill a prescription on the spot.
 With demand for primary care doctors surpassing the supply in many parts of the country, the number of these retail clinics in drugstores has exploded over the past two years, and several companies operating them are now aggressively seeking to open clinics in New York City. 
 But with their increasing popularity, the clinics are drawing mounting scrutiny. Several states including New York, New Jersey, Rhode Island, Massachusetts and California are examining ways to more closely monitor the clinics, which are overseen by a hodgepodge of state agencies applying a wide and inconsistent range of regulations. 
 More than 700 clinics are operating across the country at chain stores including Wal-Mart, CVS, Walgreens and Duane Reade.
 New York State regulators are investigating the business relationships between drugstore companies and medical providers to determine whether the clinics are being used improperly to increase business or steer patients to the pharmacies in which the clinics are located.
 And doctors' groups, whose members stand to lose business from the clinics, are citing concerns about standards of care, safety and hygiene, and they have urged the federal and state governments to step in to more rigorously regulate the new businesses.
 ''We've got big problems in health care, and this is not the answer,'' said Dr. Rick Kellerman, president of the American Academy of Family Physicians. ''They are a response, they are a niche market and an economic opportunity, but we still have an underlying primary care crisis in this country.''
 Patients, however, have flocked to the clinics, according to a new industry group, the Convenient Care Association.
 ''I think it's great you don't have to make an appointment. That could take weeks,'' said Ezequiel Strachan, 33, who lives in Manhattan and walked into the clinic at the Duane Reade store at 50th Street and Broadway on a recent morning for treatment of a sore throat. ''People here value their time a lot.''
 The average waiting time for an exam at such clinics nationwide is 15 to 25 minutes, according to the Convenient Care Association. 
 The association estimated that 70 percent of clinic patients have health insurance and are using the clinics because of convenience. For them, costs may not be much different from those at doctors' offices, because the same insurance co-payments apply. But uninsured patients could reap substantial savings. 
 In New York City, one in five residents lacks a regular doctor and one in six is uninsured, according to a recent survey by the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, and overcrowded emergency rooms are often their first resort for routine care.
 State officials acknowledged the clinics' appeal. But they said they were looking into possible violations of state law prohibiting unauthorized corporations like pharmacies, which are licensed only to provide pharmaceutical services, from delivering medical care.
 ''If we determine the business corporations are practicing medicine, then they are illegally practicing the profession and we have the authority to investigate,'' said Frank Munoz, associate commissioner of the State Education Department's Office of the Professions. 
 MinuteClinic, a wholly owned subsidiary of CVS Caremark, the drug chain's formal name, and the largest of more than a dozen clinic operators nationwide, manages seven clinics at drugstores in New York state, including one on Staten Island, and 20 others in New Jersey and Connecticut. The company said it hoped to open as many as 150 more clinics in the New York area, which would be staffed by nurse practitioners and physician assistants. 
 New York law requires that nurse practitioners work closely with a physician, who oversees the practice but is not required to be at the clinic, and that the clinics operate as independent practices or professional corporations. In other states, the medical providers can work directly for a drugstore company, a practice that has touched off concern that the providers might place the interests of their employers above those of patients. 
 MinuteClinic officials insisted that there was nothing improper in the relationships between providers and the drugstores and that medical care is not being compromised. 
 ''We are transparent with regulators,'' said Michael C. Howe, the chief executive of MinuteClinic, which is based in Minneapolis and operates more than 200 clinics nationwide. using the motto ''You're Sick, We're Quick.''
 Mr. Howe said the concerns of doctors' groups and other critics ''are being raised by voices of people who have not really studied the model.''
 Preliminary data from a two-year study of claims from MinuteClinic by a Minnesota health maintenance organization, HealthPartners, which was released to The Minneapolis Star Tribune in July, showed that each visit to the retail clinic cost an average of $18 less than a visit to other primary-care clinics, but that pharmacy costs were $4 higher per patient. 
 Duane Reade, New York City's largest drugstore chain, which opened four clinics in Manhattan in May, plans to open as many as 60 more across the city in the next 18 months. A key difference at the Duane Reade clinics is that they use doctors, while nurse practitioners and physician assistants typically provide the care at most retail clinics.
 The American Medical Association, contending that patients might be sacrificing quality for convenience or seeking help at drugstore clinics for problems that should be addressed by their doctors or a hospital, has proposed a series of guidelines, including a requirement that the clinics have a ''well-defined and limited scope.'' The association has also urged federal and state governments to investigate how the clinics operate. 
 Pediatrician groups have strongly opposed reliance on the clinics because of the importance of having doctors who are familiar with a child's medical history. 
 After doctors' groups in Massachusetts protested MinuteClinic's plans to open the state's first retail clinic, the Health Department issued guidelines for what the state is calling ''limited service clinics,'' and has scheduled two public hearings next month. 
 New Jersey health officials said they were looking at what Massachusetts and other states were doing to regulate the clinics and were considering whether they should propose new regulations to oversee them.
 In New York, the company operating the Duane Reade clinics, Consumer Health Services, announced last week that it had entered into a partnership with several New York City hospitals that will work closely with the Duane Reade doctors. 
 ''We are in the embryonic stage of a new era in New York City health care,'' said Adam Henick, senior vice president for ambulatory care and medical enterprise at Continuum Health Partners, the parent company of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center and Beth Israel Medical Center, which are working with the Duane Reade doctors. ''The traditional place that we deliver care is no longer in the traditional location.'' 
 Under the partnership agreement, the doctors at Duane Reade will have admitting privileges at the Continuum hospitals and the drugstore clinics can streamline a patient's journey to a specialist or through the emergency room, when that is necessary, because of the relationship, company officials said. 
 The Duane Reade retail clinics, advertised at the stores as ''Duane Reade Walk-In Medical Care,'' function as private medical practices that lease space from Duane Reade. Despite the name, doctors own the clinics, which have low overhead costs in a city where setting up a practice can be wildly prohibitive.
 Doctors' groups said they had fewer objections to doctor-run retail clinics, because the doctors are accountable to a state licensing board. 
 But New York State officials are still looking at these ''physician based models,'' Mr. Munoz said, to determine whether there were any inappropriate connections between the prescribing doctors at the clinics and the pharmacy's bottom line. 
 The pharmacy companies and the operators of the clinics insisted that customers are not told where to fill their prescriptions. But the proximity of the pharmacy is part of the appeal for consumers, and Duane Reade officials said they would undoubtedly see increased sales at pharmacies with clinics.
 The clinics accept most health insurance plans, although the Duane Reade ones do not yet accept Medicare and Medicaid. At Duane Reade, prices for services are posted on a large board near the check-in counter -- from a basic exam at $95 to more complicated procedures for wart removal, abscess drainage or treatment of a sprained ankle for $199. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eve Linney, 5, who had an infected finger, went with her family last week to a walk-in clinic at a Duane Reade drugstore on Broadway in Manhattan. Her father, John, is at the counter (pg. A1)
 Dr. Maggie Bertisch saw Eve Linney at a walk-in clinic while her mother, Claire, waited (pg. A16). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACIES (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); INSURANCE (73%); RETAILERS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



394 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Four Major Banks Tap Federal Reserve for Financing

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The country's four biggest banks announced yesterday that they had each borrowed $500 million from the Federal Reserve, taking an unusual step to ease the credit squeeze that has been rattling the financial system for weeks. 
 The banks -- Citigroup, Bank of America, JPMorgan and Wachovia -- said that they had tapped the so-called discount window of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, five days after the central bank lowered the rate and loosened its collateral standards in an effort to inject more money into the credit markets. 
 The coordinated moves were seen as largely symbolic, aimed at removing the stigma of borrowing from the discount window, which is regarded as a last resort for financial institutions. All four banks can borrow money more cheaply elsewhere, and all said they had ''substantial liquidity.'' 
 In a conference call on Friday, Fed officials prodded the banks to take the action, according to people briefed on the situation.
 The Federal Reserve said at the time that using the discount window should be viewed as a sign of strength, not weakness.
 ''I think it is a show of solidarity with the Fed's objective with removing any taint of borrowing from the discount window,'' said Paul McCulley, a portfolio manager at Pimco, a big fixed-income money management firm. ''There was no obvious need for any of those institutions to borrow.''
 Nonetheless, the move puzzled longtime market watchers, some of whom are expecting bigger troubles. 
 ''Going to the discount window is like someone on the Upper East Side being seen in a Wal-Mart,'' said Charles R. Geisst, a financial historian at Manhattan College. ''The T-shirts may be cheap, but why would you?''
 He added: ''The banks are circling the wagons. Somebody's got a problem.'' 
 Other big banks have also tapped central banks for financing. On Tuesday, Barclays, a British bank, borrowed $:314 million ($622 million) from the Bank of England's standing facility, which is used to square accounts between banks. Deutsche Bank confirmed that it had borrowed from the Federal Reserve's discount window on Friday, though it did not formally publicize the action until yesterday.
 Wells Fargo, the nation's fifth-largest bank, declined to comment about whether it had borrowed from the discount window, but said it had ''ample funds.''
 It is unclear when any of the four big banks used the discount window, or if any other banks had borrowed money. The Federal Reserve does not report data until this evening, but those are aggregate weekly numbers and do not name the borrowers.
 Banks have long been reluctant to borrow from the discount window, because the disclosure that capital was being sought there was akin to announcing a financial crisis, which could alarm investors and make the situation worse.
 By encouraging the largest banks to use the discount window and promoting it as a sign of strength, the Federal Reserve was trying to change investors' perceptions. 
 ''If you have a pipe to get liquidity in the system but nobody will use it, that limits its effectiveness,'' Mr. McCulley said.
 He added, ''It was effectively an act of statesmanship by the big four banks,'' noting that $500 million is a small amount for those financial institutions.
 He said those banks could borrow federal funds at rates that are typically less than the discount window borrowing rate, which was lowered half a percentage point, to 5.75 percent, on Friday.
 The borrowing announcements helped bolster investor confidence and lift the stock market for the second consecutive day. But some analysts said the main purpose was to send a message to the market for commercial paper and the broader bond market, both of which have been rattled since at least mid-July because of difficulties in the subprime mortgage market.
 ''From the Fed's point of view, the risk was that banks would stop lending. That immediately pushes the pressure of the credit markets right into the U.S. economy,'' said Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein & Company analyst who was once chief financial officer for Lehman Brothers.
 ''By opening up the window, the Fed is really saying: 'You go out and lend because we will lend to you,' '' he added. ''This tells us that confidence is coming back to the fixed-income market.''
 In a joint statement, JPMorgan, Bank of America and Wachovia said that they were using the discount window in an effort to ''encourage its use by other financial institutions.'' Citigroup said separately that it was ''pleased to inject liquidity into the financial system'' and would ''stand ready to continue to access the discount window as clients and needs warrant.'' 
 Announcing its action yesterday, Deutsche Bank said that its decision to borrow on Friday was taken in support of the Fed's efforts and the overall market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (85%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



395 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths SEEVAK, SHELDON

 BODY:
 SEEVAK--Sheldon. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of The New York University Child Study Center mourn the loss of Sheldon Seevak, a visionary supporter of the Center. Shelly truly understood the value of research in unlocking the root causes of psychiatric disorders; he and Ellie generously underwrote research whose findings will benefit families across the country. We will miss Shelly and his inexhaustible search for answers. Our thoughts are with his family and all those who love him. Brooke Garber Neidich, Chair Harold S. Koplewicz, M.D., Director, NYU Child Study Center 
 SEEVAK--Sheldon, Shelly -The Neidich family has lost a wonderful friend. We celebrate an extraordinary life well lived, and the family you built with Ellie. We are fortunate to be among the countless people you touched. Amazingly, your achievements at Goldman Sachs merely served as a foundation for the countless contributions you made to a host of non-profits. While your financial support was significant, it was the commitment of your time and the application of your boundless intellectual curiosity which made a lasting impact. Those of us who owe you so much will never forget and will forever be in your debt. 
 SEEVAK--Sheldon. On behalf of the Columbia Business School community, we express our deep sorrow over the passing of Sheldon Seevak. Through the Sheldon Seevak Real Estate Business Plan Competition and other programs within our school, he nurtured and inspired many students and alumni. His guidance will be missed and fondly remembered. R. Glenn Hubbard, Dean and Russell L. Carson Professor of Finance and Economics Christopher J. Mayer, Paul Milstein Professor of Real Estate Columbia Business School 
 SEEVAK--Shelley. Loved kids and worked to make sure that all children would have the privilege of a great education whilelearning that giving back is a responsibility -an act of love. Margot Stern Strom, Executive Director, Facing History and Ourselves 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); BUSINESS PLANS (65%); MENTAL ILLNESS (57%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



396 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: For 2008 Olympics Campaigns, the Starter's Gun Went Off This Month

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
WITH less than a year to go until the 2008 Summer Games, the Olympic rings are everywhere in Beijing. How is an advertiser, even an official sponsor, supposed to stand out?
 Olympic sponsors like Coca-Cola, McDonald's and Lenovo, the Chinese computer maker that bought I.B.M.'s PC business, celebrated the start of the one-year countdown to the opening ceremonies, on Aug. 8, with marketing initiatives intended to break through the Olympics ad hype.
 Coca-Cola took over about a third of the bus shelters in Beijing -- 2,008 of them, to be precise -- in what it called ''the biggest outdoor advertising presence ever seen in China.'' 
 McDonald's announced, along with new menu items and ads aimed at Chinese consumers, an international competition for children to win trips to the Games. 
 Lenovo detailed a partnership with Google to use the Internet to find participants for the Olympic torch relay.
 ''Aug. 8 was a big day in China,'' said Michael Birkin, the chief executive for the Asia-Pacific region at the Omnicom Group, whose advertising agencies work with several Olympics sponsors. ''I think it created a stir with a number of clients, who have launched programs with more of an Olympics focus.''
 A report last week from Group M, the media buying division of the WPP Group, underlined the importance of the Beijing Games to the global advertising economy.
 China is set to take over from the United States next year as the biggest source of growth in global ad spending. Although the United States remains a much larger advertising market over all, China will account for 24 percent of new spending worldwide, compared with 20 percent for the United States. As recently as last year, the United States provided 29 percent of growth, and China 18 percent, the report showed. 
 Even while China gains ascendancy in new ad spending, a recent dispute about a joint venture between Groupe Danone of France and its local partner in China, the Wahaha Group, has raised concern among some Western companies about a rise in Chinese nationalism, perhaps linked to the Olympics. So, even as the Chinese prepare for the international scrutiny that the Games will bring, international marketers are honing their local credentials.
 ''Earlier on, it was seen as the Beijing Games,'' said Michael Wood, chief executive for the China region at the ad agency Leo Burnett. ''Now there is very much of an increase in them being perceived as the Chinese Games.''
 On Aug. 8, McDonald's introduced the China Mac, which resembles a Big Mac but is adapted to appeal to Chinese tastes. McDonald's is advertising the China Mac, which is made with marinated beef, with a television spot created by Leo Burnett that shows cartoonlike athletes morphing into ingredients in the burger.
 The McDonald's competition will allow 100 children from China, among 300 worldwide, to make four-day visits to Beijing during the Games. McDonald's has reached an agreement with CCTV, the state broadcaster in China, to put on a reality television show based on the selection process, said Gary Rosen, McDonald's chief marketing officer in China.
 Coca-Cola is basing its efforts on ''shuang,'' a Chinese word that the company says means ''physical, emotional and spiritual refreshment.'' More than 50 designs in the billboard campaign feature Chinese athletes like Yao Ming, the N.B.A. basketball player, with a Coke. 
 While American companies like Coca-Cola and McDonald's are trying to raise their profiles in China, Chinese companies like Lenovo are trying to use the Olympics to spread brand awareness elsewhere.
 Lenovo says it is looking for three ''new thinkers who symbolize the ideals of the Olympics'' to take part in the torch relay, said Alice Li, vice president for Olympics marketing at Lenovo. Candidates must submit 50-word essays online to show they are such thinkers. Finalists will create 30-second videos for posting on YouTube, which is owned by Google. 
 The one-year countdown will not be the last marketing milestone of these Olympics. The six-month mark, in February, coincides with the Chinese New Year, providing a chance for fresh marketing fireworks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Many sponsors of the Beijing Games, like Visa, have begun ad blitzes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE-GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPONSORSHIP (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (70%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (84%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); GOOGLE INC (84%); DANONE SA (FRANCE) (81%); WPP PLC (57%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (84%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); DNN (BIT) (81%); BN (PAR) (81%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (57%); WPP (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (75%); ASIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



397 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Visiting Japanese Premier Sees New Entente With India

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Japan pushed on Wednesday for stronger economic ties to India with one of the largest business delegations to visit here.
 ''The two largest democracies in Asia share basic values,'' Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said in a speech to more than 500 people attending a lunch session here. Stronger cooperation by the nations is ''important for the peace and prosperity of the entire world,'' he added. 
 Over the preceding day, hundreds of sober-suited Japanese businessmen arrived in New Delhi, driving home the underlying message of Mr. Abe's visit: Japan is pushing for a much stronger partnership with India. 
 The visit is prompting a series of promises, predictions and agreed deals. Mr. Abe said that trade between the countries would reach $20 billion over the next three years, triple its current levels. 
 Mr. Abe also said that he hoped to reach an agreement with his Indian counterpart, Manmohan Singh, about reducing greenhouse gases. 
 Kamal Nath, the Indian minister for trade and industry, said Wednesday that the two countries would sign a comprehensive economic agreement by the end of the year. 
 Already during the visit, Japan and India have agreed on a currency swap, Mr. Abe said, allowing them to deal with a short-term liquidity squeeze.
 In a series of banquets and buffets, featuring plenty of Indian food but few concessions to Japanese cuisine, Japanese executives and politicians have been gathering with their Indian counterparts to discuss everything from open skies agreements to Buddhism. Implicit in the discussion of cooperation is the notion that an allied India and Japan could help hedge against China's growth. 
 In an address to the Indian Parliament, Mr. Abe said Wednesday that he saw partnership between their countries promoting the growth of a ''broader Asia'' that includes the entire Pacific, the United States and Australia. 
 ''Open and transparent, this network will allow people, goods, capital and knowledge to flow freely,'' the prime minister said. 
 Mr. Abe's speech was the first address by a Japanese politician to a joint meeting of this country's Parliament. He quoted an Indian spiritual leader, Swami Vivekananda, and a Mughal prince, Dara Shikoh. 
 Mr. Abe noted that 50 years ago, his grandfather, Nobusuke Kishi, was the first Japanese prime minister to visit India. 
 Businessmen from both sides, for the most part, were as optimistic as the politicians about the potential of the partnership.
 Fujio Cho, chairman of Toyota, told reporters that his company planned to bring a new small car to India in two years and might even manufacture it in India. 
 Kazuo Furukawa, chief executive of Hitachi, said the company might invest in nuclear projects. 
 ''The time has come to engage both nations in a more significant way than ever before,'' Sunil Bharti Mittal, founder of an Indian telecommunications giant, the Bharti Group, said. 
 This combination has the ''potential to shape world dynamics,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and his wife, Gursharan Kaur, waved to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe after a ceremony yesterday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRAKASH SINGH/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); RELIGION (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (54%); GREENHOUSE GASES (53%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (93%); MANMOHAN SINGH (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (99%); JAPAN (96%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



398 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: The Great Clock Plot

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
This week, The Times reported that President Hugo Chavez is planning to move Venezuela's clocks ahead by half an hour. The story created one of those wonderful moments of newspaper community, as readers around the nation suddenly shared an identical thought:
 Say what? 
 Chavez unveiled his plans on his regular Sunday television show, in what several other news reports referred to as a ''rambling'' address. Reaction was swift, with many people recalling the scene in Woody Allen's ''Bananas'' when a revolutionary hero becomes president of a Latin American country and announces that from now on, ''underwear will be worn on the outside.''
 The other popular comment was that Americans are in no position to make fun of countries whose leaders make incoherent speeches.
 Chavez has always been strong on the grand leftist gesture. (Remember the day that he called George W. Bush ''the devil'' at the United Nations?) But it's hard to quite grasp the populist appeal of having to use a calculator to figure out when the next plane arrives from Bogota.
 In his speech, Chavez connected the time change to his plan to reduce the Venezuelan work day in 2008. His administration believes that: 
 1) Cutting everyone's work day to six hours will increase national productivity; and 2) That if you change 7 a.m. to 6:30, it will create a ''metabolic effect, where the human brain is conditioned by sunlight.'' 
 Now I know all this sounds extremely silly, but in the name of fairness, remember that:
 1) You live in a country where the administration believes that cutting taxes for the heirs to billion-dollar estates will lead to increased prosperity for unemployed steel workers.
 2) Every year, most Americans spring forward and fall back so that the Sun God will send extra rays to we who honor him with the ceremony of the changing of the clocks.
 3) So far, Hugo Chavez hasn't invaded anybody.
 Inquiring minds still want to know about that half-hour. The Venezuelan science minister says the government wants to return the country to the system it used before 1965.
 When it was changed. For convenience.
 Perhaps President Chavez just isn't a clock-watching kind of guy. His weekly TV program is six hours of him talking, which is an extremely long time to ramble on unless you're Fidel Castro or an American sports commentator. 
 But what if there's a trend under way here? The list of countries who use the half-hour system does not inspire much confidence. There's Burma. And Afghanistan. And then there's Nepal. When the countries around it are at 3 p.m., Nepal believes it to be 3:45. This may have something to do with the altitude.
 Newfoundland is on the half-hour system, defying the rest of Canada to do anything about it. The reason, as Premier Danny Williams once explained, is that Newfoundlanders ''like to be different.'' Their country is mainly about cod -- very important, historically speaking, but not frequently in the headlines these days. 
 So people there like a little attention. They like having a Newfoundland Time Zone. They like the fact that the national broadcasters always have to say: ''Stay tuned for the news on the hour. On the half-hour in Newfoundland.''
 We may be on to something here. How many countries do you think would feel better about the world if they just got mentioned once in a while? Probably won't work for Afghanistan at this point, but we could try getting the networks to say things like: ''News is up next, and let's hope it's a nice day in Surinam.'' 
 Sooner or later, somebody in the White House will notice that the one other country whose clocks are running to the tune of a different drummer is Iran. Chavez and Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad are extremely cozy, always pinning medals on one another and sending anti-Bush jokes back and forth. At this very minute, Vice President Dick Cheney is somewhere in his basement, working up a new theory about the Evil Axis of Half Hours.
 Let's just not go there. Riordan Roett, the director of the Western Hemisphere studies program at Johns Hopkins University, says that the fact that the president of Venezuela announces something does not necessarily mean it's a done deal. ''See if Chavez repeats it,'' he advised. ''If it's just a one-time thing, the rational people who are still in the government will just ignore it.''
 If only we had a similar system in the United States, imagine all the things we might have avoided over the last six years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); FACTORY WORKERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); FIDEL CASTRO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (57%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (76%); COLOMBIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



399 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: A Bump in India-U.S. Rapport: Defining 'Ally'

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
Affection for things American can be felt regarding many things in this country, from sneakers to accents, to where the elite send their children for university education. 
 And yet deepening relations between New Delhi and Washington, symbolized by a landmark nuclear accord whose details were made public earlier this month, have stirred such fierce political anxiety here that it now stands as the biggest challenge for the coalition government of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.
 The government's Communist allies, as well as the opposition, the conservative Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, have seized on the deal to assail the government for cultivating broader strategic and economic ties with the United States. 
 Mr. Singh's United Progressive Alliance, or U.P.A., which is led by the Congress Party, depends on the support of four leftist parties for a majority in Parliament. The discord among them has reached such a pitch that the capital has been rife with speculation about the prospect of early elections, before the administration's term ends in spring 2009. 
 Parliament does not have to approve the nuclear deal, but screeching protests against the accord have debilitated the legislature for the last 10 days. At the heart of the complaints is that it could restrict India's ability to test nuclear weapons and endanger its foreign policy independence. 
 ''The Left parties have been watching with disquiet the way the U.P.A. government has gone about forging close strategic and military ties with the United States,'' Prakash Karat, general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), wrote this week in People's Democracy, the party organ. His party warned the government not to go forward with the deal. 
 Whether his bluster, or that of Mr. Singh, who has dared the Communists to withdraw support, will result in any serious breakdown of government remains to be seen. 
 But the rift has exposed a deeper and perhaps inevitable divide between the Congress and its leftist supporters. Until now, the differences over economic and foreign policy have slowed down several programs but have not posed such a stark confrontation. 
 ''It's a very serious cleavage on the architecture of the India-U.S. strategic relationship and the specifics of the India-U.S. nuclear deal,'' said Mahesh Rangarajan, a political analyst. 
 Prime Minister Singh last week defended the accord in Parliament as one that would give energy-starved India access to nuclear fuel and technology. India has not been able to buy nuclear technology from the United States or anywhere else for 30 years, since India, which is not a signatory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, tested a nuclear device. India must still get approval from the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Nuclear Suppliers Group. 
 It was not clear how many of Mr. Singh's opponents heard him in Parliament. They heckled him throughout the speech. 
 Even the Hindu nationalist B.J.P., which has been traditionally pro-American and which negotiated a nascent alliance with the Bush administration in early 2004, says the nuclear deal sacrifices national sovereignty. 
 ''A strategic partnership is not a synonym for strategic subservience, and that's why we are opposed to it,'' Jaswant Singh, the foreign minister in the last B.J.P. administration and now a member of Parliament, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday. 
 He went on to criticize the prime minister's attempt to ''hustle it through'' without the blessings of Parliament. 
 ''It's now inscribed in stone and not a comma can be changed,'' he said. ''If you can't change anything, what can Parliament do -- wash dishes?'' 
 The hullabaloo here contrasts sharply with the criticism that President Bush has faced at home from members of Congress, who accuse him of yielding too much to Indian demands, particularly on its right to test atomic weapons. Such a broad exception, critics say, stands to weaken international nonproliferation norms. 
 The Indian government, and supporters of the deal more broadly, contend that Indians ought not to fret about American domination. ''The engagement with America is already complete,'' said Sunil Bharti Mittal, whose company, Bharti Enterprises, has entered into a partnership that allows Wal-Mart into the Indian market. ''Wal-Mart is here. Indian companies are making acquisitions there.'' 
 Mr. Mittal, who is also president of the Confederation of Indian Industry, said the nuclear accord would be a touchstone of far broader cooperation between the countries in everything from pharmaceuticals to agriculture. ''If America and India are really seen as allies, as great partners in progress, you will see trade multiply,'' he said. 
 Beyond the talk of shared values, good will for Americans, their culture, even their government prevails among many Indians. Indians make up the largest number of foreign students in the United States, and they get the largest number of work visas to the United States, according to the American Embassy here. Last year, the Pew Global Attitudes Project found that 56 percent of Indians surveyed had a favorable view of the United States, second only to Japanese's view. 
 Prem Shankar Jha, a magazine columnist who has written in favor of the nuclear deal, said part of the good will came because, ''by the grace of God, we never became your allies in past, we never got a chance to be let down.'' 
 Yet mixed feelings remain. Mr. Jha has also written against the Bush administration's policies elsewhere, which are not altogether popular here. ''Any country with that much military power and that does not subscribe to international norms is bound to inspire wariness,'' he added, hinting at the paradox of Indian sentiment toward the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007



400 of 552 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Historians Question Bush's Reading of Lessons of Vietnam War for Iraq

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22 

 BODY:
The American withdrawal from Vietnam is widely remembered as an ignominious end to a misguided war -- but one with few negative repercussions for the United States and its allies. 
 Now, in urging Americans to stay the course in Iraq, President Bush is challenging that historical memory.
 In reminding Americans that the pullout in 1975 was followed by years of bloody upheaval in Southeast Asia, Mr. Bush argued in a speech on Wednesday that Vietnam's lessons provide a reason for persevering in Iraq, rather than for leaving any time soon. Mr. Bush in essence accused his war critics of amnesia over the exodus of Vietnamese ''boat people'' refugees and the mass killings in Cambodia that upended the lives of millions of people. 
 President Bush is right on the factual record, according to historians. But many of them also quarreled with his drawing analogies from the causes of that turmoil to predict what might happen in Iraq should the United States withdraw.
 ''It is undoubtedly true that America's failure in Vietnam led to catastrophic consequences in the region, especially in Cambodia,'' said David C. Hendrickson, a specialist on the history of American foreign policy at Colorado College in Colorado Springs.
 ''But there are a couple of further points that need weighing,'' he added. ''One is that the Khmer Rouge would never have come to power in the absence of the war in Vietnam -- this dark force arose out of the circumstances of the war, was in a deep sense created by the war. The same thing has happened in the Middle East today. Foreign occupation of Iraq has created far more terrorists than it has deterred.'' 
 The record of death and dislocation after the American withdrawal from Vietnam ranks high among the tragedies of the last century, with an estimated 1.7 million Cambodians, about one-fifth of the population, dying under the rule of Pol Pot, and an estimated 1.5 million Vietnamese and other Indochinese becoming refugees. Estimates of the number of Vietnamese who were sent to prison camps after the war have ranged widely, from 50,000 to more than 400,000, and some accounts have said that tens of thousands perished, a figure that Mr. Bush cited in his speech, to the Veterans of Foreign Wars. Mr. Bush did not offer a judgment on what, if anything, might have brought victory in Vietnam or whether the war itself was a mistake. Instead, he sought to underscore the dangers of a hasty withdrawal from Iraq.
 But the American drawdown from Vietnam was hardly abrupt, and it lasted much longer than many people remember. The withdrawal actually began in 1968, after the Tet offensive, which was a military defeat for the Communist guerrillas and their North Vietnamese sponsors. But it also illustrated the vulnerability of the United States and its South Vietnamese allies. 
 Although American commanders asked for several hundred thousand reinforcements after Tet, President Johnson turned them down. President Nixon began a process of ''Vietnamization'' in which responsibility for security was gradually handed to local military and police forces -- similar to Mr. Bush's long-term strategy for Iraq today. 
 American air power was used to help sustain South Vietnam's struggling government, but by the time of the famous photograph of Americans being lifted off a roof in Saigon in 1975, few American combat forces were left in Vietnam. ''It was not a precipitous withdrawal, it was a very deliberate disengagement,'' said Andrew J. Bacevich, a platoon leader in Vietnam who is now a professor of international relations at Boston University.
 Vietnam today is a unified and stable nation whose Communist government poses little threat to its neighbors and is developing healthy ties with the United States. Mr. Bush visited Vietnam last November; a return visit to the White House this summer by Nguyen Minh Triet was the first visit by a Vietnamese head of state since the war. 
 ''The Vietnam comparison should invite us to think harder about how to minimize the consequences of our military failure,'' Mr. Bacevich added. ''If one is really concerned about the Iraqi people, and the fate that may be awaiting them as this war winds down, then we ought to get serious about opening our doors, and to welcoming to the United States those Iraqis who have supported us and have put themselves and their families in danger.''
 To that end, some members of Congress and human rights groups have urged the Bush administration to drop the limits on Iraqi refugees admitted to the United States.
 Mr. Bush also sought to inspire renewed support for his Iraq strategy by recalling the years of national sacrifice during World War II, and the commitment required to rebuild two of history's most aggressive and lawless adversaries, Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan, into reliable and responsible allies.
 But historians note that Germany and Japan were homogenous nation-states with clear national identities and no internal feuding among factions or sects, in stark contrast to Iraq today.
 The comparison of Iraq to Germany and Japan ''is fanciful,'' said Steven Simon, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. He noted that the American and allied militaries had eliminated the governments of Japan and Germany, and any lingering opposition, and assembled occupation forces that were, proportionally, more than three times as large as the current American presence of more than 160,000 troops in Iraq. 
 ''That's the kind of troop level you need to control the situation,'' Mr. Simon said. ''The occupation of Germany and Japan lasted for years -- and not a single American solider was killed by insurgents.''
 Senior American military officers speaking privately also say that the essential elements that brought victory in World War II -- a total commitment by the American people and the government, and a staggering economic commitment to rebuild defeated adversaries -- do not exist for the Iraq war. The wars in Korea and Vietnam also involved considerable national sacrifice, including tax increases and conscription.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Thursday about President Bush's speech comparing the mission in Iraq to other wars described imprecisely the timing of the American withdrawal from Vietnam. While President Johnson in 1968 refused requests from commanders to increase the military commitment in Vietnam by hundreds of thousands of troops, the reduction in forces began in 1969, not 1968.
 A picture caption with the article also misstated the year by which almost all American combat forces had left Vietnam. It was 1973, not 1975.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: By the time these Americans were lifted off a roof in Saigon in 1975 , few American combat forces were left in Vietnam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUBERT VAN ES/UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL/CORBIS BETTMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR (92%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REFUGEES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); TERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) COLORADO, USA (79%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); CAMBODIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); VIETNAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2007

 
